                               f       ^
\/ \                           \/
                               /\
\/
M  W
   /\ /\
                               \ /

\7       \/\
\ /   V
                               '




                                   m
                                           AW
                                           \/\
4WV4V       /A /\/
V / V / \ / \Y \/\
l\/\/\ \
Vi A AY/ \/
                                   /\
                 \l
     \ /v /\ /\ l\ )

 -
      wm
       .
           V/ \7 \l
         W /
           ^
           ;j /\ l\
                ;
                A-

                                   A   M
\Mi \ i \ / \ /      jp   tt




l\l\ /    \
\l\l \/ \/
i\i\ /\ /\ /
\l\ \ / \ / \/\
 V/\ /\ /\
\ i \                                      v / \
 THE LIBRARY
      OF
THE UNIVERSITY
OF CALIFORNIA
 LOS ANGELES
                    TO THE READER.

   SINCE writing the accompanying work, an alteration
in the cash price of Gin, from the Rectifiers to the Trade,
has taken place.      The   scale, however,      offered to the
notice of the Public, in the division, which more imme-

diately treats on the article of Gin, in this Treatise, ap-
plies equally as well, in respect to its extensive adultera-
tion  and reduction, as though, another scale was ex-
hibited, adapted to the present prices which are quoted
for it.   The terms which the Author has mentioned, and
which are agreeable to those, at the time this work was
commenced,     are, for   Gin twenty-two per cent, under-
proof 9s. 4d. and for the article at seventeen, per cent, un-
derproof 10s. per gallon.

  The recent alteration which has taken place, renders
the cash prices from the Rectifiers to the Trade, for the
former strength 8s. 6d. per gallon, for the latter 9s. By
some of our placarders and advertisers, Gin is now sold at
the low price of 5s. 4d. per gallon, to enable them to do
which, and to permit of its being vended at that sum per
gallon, (allowing for the sugar
                                       and   etceteras, used in

sweetening and making up,)        it   takes sixty-Jour gallons
and a half of water, and, further to admit of a profit of
only 6d. per gallon, sixteen gallons more, of the same liquid,
making a total of eighty gallons and a half of water, to
every 100 gallons of Gin at 8s. 6d. per gallon.       This cal-
culation is offered to the Reader, to show, that, although
the prices which relate to the article of Gin in this
Treatise, differ from those, at present fixed by the Rec-
tifiers, yet the circumstance, does not in the least affect

the general statement of facts.
WINE AND SPIRIT ADULTERATORS
    WINE AND SPIRIT
ADULTERATORS UNMASKED,
                                IN



                     & Creative,
SETTING FORTH THE MANNER EMPLOYED, AND THE VARIOUS
           INGREDIENTS WHICH CONSTITUTE THE

     ADULTERATIONS AND IMPOSITIONS
                   EFFECTED WITH THE DIFFERENT


            WINES AND SPIRITS
                  OFFERED TO THE PUBLIC,

THROUGH THE MEDIUM OF CHEAP PRICES,
                         BY   MANY OF THE

      ADVERTISING AND PLACARDING WHOLESALE
  WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS, AND GIN-SHOP-KEEPERS,
                OF THE PRESENT DAY.

                                ALSO

SHEWING THE METHOD BY WHICH THE NOTICE OF TH R

                   EXCISE       IS     EVADED,
                         AND AFFORDING

  A VARIETY OK   OTHER VALUABLE INFORMATION ON THE SUBJECT.


                       "Pro bono publico."


          BY ONE OF THE OLD SCHOOL.                  ,




                          LONDON:
 PRINTED FOR THE ADTHOR, BY J. ROBINS AND CO. IVY LANE,
                   PATERN* STER ROW.

                               1827.
                               I.

     IN addressing the Public on a subject of such
importance as the detection and exposure of fraud,
especially when the health and comfort of all
classes of the community is concerned, it is neces-

sary, to a forcible      and    efficient appeal,   that the

person so addressing himself have considerable ex-
perience relative to the nature of the frauds in-
tended to be exposed, and that he be able to pro-
duce facts in support of the arguments which he
may see it necessary to advance.
     That I can enforce the object 1 have in view,
in both these respects, I have every expectation ;
and I trust, that my labours may operate as some
check to the continuance of that which really exists,
as a most serious evil.
     That the sale, through the medium of advertise-
ments and printed bills, of a spurious article for
the genuine, deserves the exposure of every honest
tradesman, and,    the fact be proved, the repro-
                    if

bation of every member of society, I should think
no one     will   attempt to deny, as the character
of the former, and the health and pockets of the

latter, both essentially suffer by the system.
   As an old Wine and                   Spirit    Merchant   retired

from business, with a competency, acquired by
fair trading, no feeling of pique, as to the in-

jury caused to       my own pursuits by the system I
feel   it
             rny duty to reprobate, can be supposed to
have        suggested the idea of opening the eyes
of the public, to the fraudulent practises it con-

ceals; or, in so doing to influence me in offering
                            1


                                ,



any other, than an impartial                     and matter-of-fact
statement.

   Having a few leisure moments on my hands, and
from     my youth having
                                    1

                                        been accustomed to an
active      life,I was induced, in order to occupy my

leisure,      to commence this treatise * for the in-
formation of my own circle of acquaintance; nor
should I have been prevailed on, to offer it to the
notice of the public, but for a late trial in the
Court of Exchequer, for adulteration, f and the
additional incitement, occasioned by a conviction
of the influence which the present system of im-

position (through the means of advertisements and
printed bills) is gaining on the public mind.
   We   have lately witnessed mining and other
wild speculations, by which the pockets of hundreds
have been emptied, and their estates ruined.                    We
   * Since
           penning the chief part of this treatise, I have ob-
served some clever articles on the same subject in Nos. 516, 517,

518, of the Literary Gazette.
  t Attorney-General versus Oldfield,       to which I shall have oc-
casion to refer when I arrive at another part of my subject.
have seen too, the long advertisements, in which

great and splendid advantages were offered to those
who chose      to   embark    in   them   :   the   most un-
bounded wealth promised and expected.
     In those instances, however, the results have dis-
covered the impositions, and exposed (though con-

veyed under fine high sounding expressions) the
adulteration of principles (if I may be allowed the

term) to what has been proved to be, false and empty
purposes.     We have blamed those persons who,
under the supposition that all the professions were
genuine, were induced to embark in such under-
takings, and    who found, by sad experience, they
had been deceived by spurious articles.
  Notwithstanding, the credulity of the public is not
exhausted. Other and not less egregious impositions
are now placed before them by Advertising and Pla-

carding Wine and Spirit Merchants, the falsehood of
whose pretensions, are, in some respects, more easily
detected, as the Duties on Wines and Spirits, and
their cost at the Docks, are generally         known   ;
                                                           and
it   must therefore appear,   in a great degree, extra-

ordinary, to persons unacquainted with the intrica-
cies of the business, how it is
                                possible, for those
advertisers and placarders, to sell their articles at a
less price, than their real and
                                   apparent cost. I think,
I shall discharge a valuable
                           duty, if I clear up the
mystery, and prove, that, instead of vending on
lower terms than others, and gaining less profit,

they are absolutely realizing larger profits than re-
                        B 2
                                  8

spectable persons in the trade, although they resort
to so expensive a plan, as that of advertising- in the

newspapers, and distributing printed bills, &c.
  But, as ray object in this treatise is as much to
expose the adulterations and impositions which
are practised with Spirits as well as with Wine, I
will commence with a             few remarks on the former,
and illustrate my position by calculation, whereby
the public will be enabled, to see behind the curtain.
      And here, I wish it to be clearly understood, that,
as one professing the feelings and principles of a
fair tradesman, and who can conscientiously af-
firm that he has been such, and only such,, it is not

my intention to bear hard on the whole of any one
class    of Advertising and Placarding
                         1

                                                Wine and
Spirit Merchants,      indiscriminately, for the delin-
quency of a part, any further than I am supported
by unanswerable facts but merely to show, that,
                             ;



such impositions and adulterations do exist, and in
what manner, and by whom, they are chiefly prac-
tised; to the detriment of the honest trader, and the
sacrifice of the health and pockets of those to      whom
*
    ignorance is bliss.'
     It is, however, a singular fact, that the majority

of our Spirit Advertisers and Placarders is com-

posed of Gin-shop-keepers ; but, as there is no spi-
rit   whatever so much adulterated, or with which,
{through the medium of cheap prices,) so much de-
ception is practised, as with the article of Gin, it
may not appear altogether so extraordinary that,
having attained a proficiency in the art of selling
the one at less than cost price, they should form
the majority also of those, who airvertise Wines on
the same curious terms.

  But, as I have already stated, that my aim is not
against any class of dealers in particular, any fur-
ther, than the facts themselves extend to them ; but,
to protect  my fellow citizens from imposition, and
the honest Wine Merchant from the charge of exact-

ing extravagant profits, I will first endeavour to
show, the relative facility possessed by the Ad-
vertising    Wine Merchant, and that by the Ad-
vertising Gin-shop-keeper; though, with respect to
the article of Spirits, I fear it will almost exclu-

sively apply to the latter, as one of the most essen-
tial requisites   on which to found the means must
be a Retail License;* and to those, therefore, of

my readers who belong to the middling and poorer
ranks of society, and others, who purchase at these

receptacles, under the supposition that they' are
served with the genuine article, at a cheaper rate,
this part of    my subject may be considered, as of
more particular and vital importance.
  The only means whereby adulteration can be suc-
cessfully and securely carried on by the Retail or Gin-

  * In addition to this   retail
                               license, any Gin-shop-keeper may

possess a wholesale license by  paying ten pounds per annum ex-
tra, and may conduct the two branches of business attached to

them on one and the same premises; thus, from this circumstance
alone, he is placed far above an equality with the Wine Merchant
who bus only a wholtsale license.
                                  10

shop Advertiser and Placarder, is by making use
of the decreases, which daily occur in his stock,
between the periods on which his Excise Officer
surveys it ; and, as he is not obliged to render any
account of such decreases, or, if in any particular
article the officer should find no decrease from the

last stock
          (although it should be well known to him
that a portion of it had been sold), why a decrease
in that article should not
                           appear, the facilities for
avoiding any detection of adulterating practices
are great indeed.
   With the cheap advertiser, however, possessed
only of a Wholesale License, which does not allow
him to send out a less quantity than two gallons, the
case is widely different ; for, not only is every article
of Spirits, with        its   strength, which       is       sent from
his stock, taken an account of, but for any decrease

that may appear in that stock, (no matter from what

cause,*) beyond five gallons per cent, he is subject
  *  One of the first convictions that took place under this regu-
lation, was, I believe, with a Wine Merchant who had a large con-
nexion in the navy, and who pleaded (on a decrease of more than
five gallons
               per cent, being found in his stock of spirits) that he
had been treating a number of his naval customers with punch, &c.
but as the commissioners did not think he possessed a sufficient
number to cause the decrease, his plea was rejected what makes
                                                         :




the circumstance exceedingly singular, was his having been one
of the persons who proposed and assisted in the framing of the Act.
The object of entailing a penalty for this offence, was for the pur-
pose of protecting the Gin-shop-keeper against the wholesale
dealer acting as a retailer ; but as the former has no difficulty with
his decreases,   (although having a wholesale license in addition to
his other), as he has only to account for  them as having been oc-
to a heavy fine.         Hence it follows, that, very few
persons indeed, if any, having only Wholesale Li-
                                          1




censes, are found to advertise cheap Spirits ; and, if

they do, it is at considerably higher prices than
those quoted by the class of Gin-shop-keepers ;
and their means of doing so at all, may be consi-
dered, with but few exceptions, to arise more from
the inferior quality of the Spirits, than from any

great extent of adulteration.   To begin, however,
with the article of


                  COGNAC BRANDY.
    The prices, as I have gathered them from sun-
dry advertisements and placards, and from the nu-
merous printed bills left at my house (to the great
annoyance of myself and servants), at which the
advertising dealers propose to sell the very finest
qualities of this brandy, are 27s. 6d. ; 26s. ; 25s.
6d.j   24s.; and 23s. Qd. per                 gallon;    but,   when
I   shall   have shown to           my        readers,   as     I   will

do, that, notwithstanding all the heavy expences
which attach to this article, and that, although
no description of it is to be purchased at any-
thing like even the highest of the advertised
prices, an enormous profit is realized by the pla-
carders, I almost question whether many will not
feel a desire to engage in such an extremely lucrative


casioned by what he has sold over his bar in small quantities, how

amply to his benefit the object is fulfilled I leave others to surmise.
                                       12

traffic.        In order, however, to enable the reader to
understatld the               manner in which the adulteration
of this article is performed, I shall describe, shortly,
the materials, which enter into the composition of
the spurious Brandy, which generally comprises the
stock of the Advertising Wine and Spirit Merchant.
     The methods, by which Cognac Brandy is adul-
terated, are various ; but, they are                         all   effected   by
the admixture with such portion of it, as will an-
swer the intention of the cheap seller, of the follow-
ing
     1

                In some instances the whole, in
         articles.

others, only a part of them are introduced ; and the
number, quantity, and proportions in which they
are used, are regulated by the experience, which
the placarder has acquired, of the public taste.



Spanish or Brandies of very inferior quality to Cognac. They
T>       i            are but seldom used by the advertising retailer, as

                      they pay the same duty as Cognac, and therefore,
.Brandy.              approach too nearly the same expense, to serve as
                      a profitable basis.  I believe, however, that they

                      are frequently sold genuine (except only a slight

                      Deduction in strength) by the wholesale Spirit ad-
                                                        '
                 \Xvertiser, under the title of             Curious old soft Jla-
                      vored Cognac, ten years old'


Old Neil-             Neutral-flavored     Rum,    is   such, as possesses the
                      least flavor.   It must be of the finest quality,       and
t    1   fl   avor_
                      the highest marks of Wedderburn's Rums are ge-
ea ivum.
                      nerally preferred as being of that description.
                      Their prices vary from 13*. 9d. to 14*. 6rf. with-
                      out the overproof,    if
                                                 purchased by the puncheon ;
                      but if in smaller quantities, the cost is at a higher
                      rate.
                                      13

    Rectified      By rectified Spirits, is not meant the usual Spirits
                   of Wine,      though now sold by our rectifiers, in
    Spirits.       some     respects, under the same regulation.  The
                   difference between the      two articles in their manu-
                   facture is, that the rectified Spirits of which I now

                   speak, is distilled from better and cleaner Spirits,
                   aridafterwards rectified to extract the essential oil,

                   ir>order to render it as tasteless as possible; whilst

                ^--Spirits of Wine is generally made, from the feints
                    and refuse of all other Spirits and Compounds put
                   together; and undergoes, only the simple process of
                   distillation. It is sold under the denomination of

                   plain Spirits, andis to be bought at twenty-five

                   per cent, overproof for about 15s. 7d. per gallon,
                   including ihe overproof; and, therefore, when re-
                   duced to proof, costs only 12s. 5d. per gallon, as
                   the following will show :
                                                                           L.   s.   d.
                                100 gals, of Rectified Spirits at
                                       15*. 7rf.           .    .          77 18 4
                                 25 gals, of water to reduce it to proof
                   makes up 125      gals,   proof Rectified        Spirits at

                                  ~~12s.   5K T&y       is      .          77 18 4

                   It may be requisite,      however, just to observe, that,
                   all dealers are restricted from
                                                       keeping Rectified Spi-
                   rits in stock,   or sending     it out at a less strength
                   than it is received in at.        But as the retailer has
                   to render    no other account of its disposal to his
                   Excise Officer, (should there be a decrease), when
                   the stock is taken, than is afforded by the permits
                   he has had occasion to draw for sending out two
                   gallons of it or upwards, such a restriction does
                   not in the least interfere with his means of using
                   it in   any Spirit he pleases.

v   British                                             used
                   British    Brandy Bitters       is          to   fill
                                                                            up the
    Brandy         flavor, but comparatively in small quantities, as it

    Bitters.       is   exceedingly powerful :     it is
                                                           usually composed of
                                  14
                   Rectified Spirits,           Camomile Flowers,
                  Cassia,                       Orange Peel,
                  Carraways,                    &c. &c.
                        The cost is about 9*. 6d. per gallon.

British       An imitation of French      :   the compound of which,

              previously to distillation, consists generally of the
Brandy.
              following proportionate ingredients          :



                80 gallons of Rectified Spirits,           50 overproof.
                  7 gallons of Vinegar.
                12 ounces of Grace Root.
                15 pounds of Raisins.
                 2 pounds of Vitriol.
              The cost price is from          13s. to     14s. per gallon,

              twenty-two per cent, underproof.

              This is intended     to answer the        same purpose as
Cherry-
              British    Brandy   Bitters,     but   is   more generally
laurel
              made use of, because the quantity of it applied
water.        does not prevent a trial of the strength of the

              Brandy by the hydrometer.      Its qualities are

              highly pernicious, and even poisonous.


Extract of   Extract of Almond Cake is prepared by keeping a

Almond       quantity of the cake in Spirits of Wine for a long
             time.   It is intended to impart to adulterated
Cake.
              Brandy a taste resembling the             fine kernel flavor

              which the genuine article possesses.


Extract of Known in the trade by the denomination of
                                                                     '
                                                                         Devil.
             The Extract of Capsicums is made by putting a
Capsicums,
             quantity of the small East India
                                              Chellies into a
or Extract   bottle of Spirits of      Wine, and keeping        it
                                                                     closely
ofGrainsof stopped for about a month.     The same process is
Paradise.    performed with Grains of Paradise. The purposes
             of both are obvious from their natures.            They are
             used to impart an appearance of strength by the
             hot pungent flavor which they infuse into the Spi-
             rit requiring their aid.    They are mixed separately,
                                     15

                    according to the opinions of the maker-up as to
                    which answers the purpose best; their properties
                    being similar, with respect to their giving a hot
                    taste in the mouth, which passes for strength with
                    the persons imposed upon.


                    Colouring consists merely of a preparation of
                1



Colouring ,
            o       burnt sugar. It is employed to bring up the colour
S
                    of Brandy which    may have become too pale by the
        V^          preceding mixtures.     It   is   used to answer the
                    same end with Rum.       The reasons for the appli-
                    cation of   sugar will be seen    in the course of   my
                    remarks.


    My Readers being thus necessarily informed of
the ingredients which compose the various adul-
terations of Brandy, after a few further remarks, in
order to render them still better acquainted with the
nature of the subject on which I am treating, I
will offer to their notice such examples as shall

clearly prove the facts I have advanced.

    By      a late Act of Parliament                   all   dealers are
allowed to reduce Brandy,                   Rum, Arrack, Hol-
lands &c, to any degree of strength not less than
seventeen per cent underproof,* by Sykes's Hy-

    *
        My acquaintance with the Wine trade has been very ex-
tensive, and enables  me to state that I have never known any of
those individuals who carried on what     may be termed the more
respectable business, (that is, where the Wine Merchant depended
more on the quality of his article than on any extraordinary cheap-
ness in price,) to keep their Brandies and            Rums, &c. at a less
strength than six or eight per cent, underproof, although they
were allowed by the Act to reduce them to seventeen percent, un-

derproof.
                                         16

drometer :f but that trade must be very poor indeed
that does not allow a retail dealer to keep, (without
the fear of detection,) a stock of ten or twenty

gallons of both Brandy and Rum always on hand,

  f I have borrowed the               following extract from Accum's Culi-
nary Poisons,(page 235), as affording the clearest definition of
the terms underproof and overproof, and the nature of the hy-
                           '
drometer   :   he says,        By the Excise Laws at present existing in
this country, the various degrees of strength of Brandy,       Rum, Ar-
rack, Gin, Whisky, and    all other spirituous
                                               liquors, chiefly com-
      of little else than Spirits of Wine, are determined by the
posed
quantity of alcohol, of a given specific gravity, contained in the
spirituous liquor of a supposed unknown strength.       The great
public importance of this subject in this country, where the con-
sumption of spirituous liquors adds a vast sum to the public re-
venue, has been the means of instituting many very interesting ex-
periments on the subject.   The instrument used for that purpose,
by the Customs  and  officers of the Excise, is called Sykes's hy-

drometer, which has superseded the instrument called Clarke's
hydrometer, heretofore in use.    The specific gravity or strength
of the legal standard spirit of excise is technically called proof,
                     " This
or proof spirit.                  liquor (not being sweetened, or having
any ingredients dissolved in it to defeat the strength thereof) , at
the temperature of 51           Farhenheit, weighs exactly -\\ parts of an
equal measure of          distilled    water;"    and   with   this   spirit,   the

strengths of all other spirituous liquors are compared according to
law.  The strength of Brandy, Rum, Arrack, Gin, and other spi-
rituous liquors weaker than proof, or below
                                            proof, is estimated                 by
the quantity of water which would be necessary to bring the
                                                            spirit
up to proof.     The hydrometer is calculated           to show the per cent-

age of strength above or below proof, as the case         may be, of the
Spirit submitted to trial.            The stem of the instrument is gra-
duated, and so subdivided, as to meet every variety in the strength
of the liquor to be       examined which may fall between the weights ,.
(nine in number) used with the instrument; the divisions and sub-
divisions on    the hydrometer, which            remain above the surface of
                                      17

at twenty or even twenty-five per cent under-
proof.* The duty on Brandy, per imperial gallon,


the liquor in which the instrument             is   made to swim, being added
to the number on the weight used,          and together forming the indi-
cation.      But as the difference of temperature affects materially the
specific gravity of spirituous liquors, a thermometer and tables of
the concentration of strength, as denoted by the hydrometer, are
used in the application of the instrument.   The officer of Excise
has, therefore, only to turn to the tables opposite the indication,
and immediately under the temperature he finds the per centage
of the strength of the liquor; for example,



                Weight used       .        .          .    .60
                Subdivision shown by the hydrometer



                       Temperature by the Thermometer 68


Opposite 51,% in the column of indication, and under the 68th de-
                                                           "
gree of temperature, is 8-j per cent, above or over proof;   had,
however, the weight 60 been required, instead of weight 50, at
the same degree of temperature, the indication would                have been
61,%, and the strength 6-fa     per cent, below or underproof."
         Brandy and Rum is seizable if sold by, or found in the posses-
     '



sion of the dealer, unless it possess a certain strength, (seventeen

per cent, under proof by Sylces's hydrometer)/    The following are
the words of the Act, (30 Geo. 3, c. 37, sec. 31.) No distiller, rec-
tifier,    compounder, or dealer, shall serve or send out any foreign
spirits of a lower strength than that of one in six, under hydro-
meter proof, according to Clarke's hydrometer, (equivalent to se-
venteen per cent, below proof according to Sykes's hydrometer)
nor have in his possession any foreign Spirits mixed together, ex-

cept Cherry or Raspberry Brandy, of lower strength, than as
aforesaid, upon pain of such Spirits being forfeited, and such Spi-

rits, with     the casks and vessels containing the same, may be seized

by any officer of Excise.
     *    As a proof that I do not exaggerate facts, about a week
                                        18

is    22s. Qd. ; and the cost at this time of good                           fail-


Brandy from 4*. Qd.                    to 5s. per      gallon, indepen-
dently of the usual reckoning of lOd. per gallon
as interest on duty for example
                              :




                  L.     s.       d.                      L.    s.   d.

Duty         .    126 Duty                     126 .



Cost         .    046                  Cost    050 .




Advanceof money               10 Advance moneyof 10
                  1      7 10 per gal.         184                        per gal.



Thus, then, the first costs 27s. \0d. per gallon, the
latter 28s. 4d.; to which, if we add the expence of

cartage, servants' wages, waste of strength, &c.
(but without any allowance for the trifling charges
of advertising, &c.) as at 8e?. per gallon, it renders
the average cost 28*. Qd.                     and 29s. per gallon.
The     prices at     which this is sold by the equitable
Wine Merchant to his private customers is at an
advance of from 3s. to 4s. 6d. per gallon                       ;
                                                                     on which
he has to give six, twelve, and, in many instances,

since, when in town, I  sent my servant to purchase a bottle of

brandy and rum, at one of our largest Advertising and Placarding

Gin-shops,   by way of experiment.             On      trying   their     relative

strength, I found the     Rum thirty-two per cent, underproof, the
Brandy I supposed about twenty-eight or thirty per cent, under;
but as the latter had been sweetened, which prevents its being

proved by the hydrometer, I was obliged to decide by comparing
itsapparent strength with that of the Rum.     The taste of both,
however, was so filled
                       up with artificial heat and flavor, that it
would be a difficult matter for any one unacquainted with the se-
cret to tell, by the palate, whether or no, either of them were not

considerably stronger.
                                   19

eighteen months credit ; and, to those of his con-
nexion, who (as dealers) have to sell it again, at an
advance only of from Is. to Is. 6d. per gallon ; but,
when it is considered, that, with regard to the latter,
very heavy bad debts* are frequently incurred, I
do not think, at the very outside, the profits realized
average more than from five to six and a half per
cent, per annum ; and the only reason which I can
conceive for the sale of an article (attended with so
small and disproportionate a profit for so great a
risk of loss) being continued, by those who sell it

genuine, is, that, it frequently becomes the means of
introducing the sale of other commodities, to which
a greater remuneration is attached ; in short,                    it is

what is usually denominated in the trade, a leading
article.

   Having thus, however, shown what the cost of
the article is, to supply it of fair arid genuine quality,

(the correctness of which must be known to several,
and may be easily ascertained by all my readers,)
I will now proceed to give some examples, which
will disclose to the public the golden secret, by

which the placarding dealers are enabled to sell, as
Brandy at 24s. per gallon, that, which costs about
twenty per cent. more.
  *
      In many concerns I know it to be a fact, owing to the enormous
advance of money     for   duty on Brandy, which renders a bad debt
with this article extremely heavy, that, so far from gaining any per

centage at all, upon a calculation of the profits and loss for a twelve-
month, the loss has exceeded the amount of profits as much as ten
and fifteen per cent, and, in some instances, considerably more.
                                             20

   Example            1   :




      To make up 100 gallons of full proof Brandy ,' to cost
                                              '




                              only 21 s.
 50 gals, of fine Cognac Brandy,                      s.   d.                L.   s.   d.

      proof                   .          .    at      29        per gal.    72 10
 31 gals, of Old Neutral-flavor-



  9
      ed Rum, previously reduced
      to proof    .           .



      gals, of Old Neutral-flavor-
                                          .       -   13        -           20     3

      ed   Rum,       twenty-five per
      cent,   overproof,      including
      overproof               .          .            16 6                   786
 10 gals, of British              Brandy,
      twenty-two per cent, under-
      proof       .           .          .            13 6                   6 15
100 gals, of full proof Brandy sA 21*.                                     106 16 6
      To the above must be added
      1 pint of Colouring.                                       100)2136(21
      | pint of Cherry-laurel water.                             gals. 200        per gal
      i pint of Extract of Almond Cake.                                    136
                                                                           100
                                                                            36
                                                                            12

                                                                  100)438(4rf.
                                                                           400
                                                                            38
                                                                             4
                                                                  100)1 52 (f
                                                                      100
                                                                            52



  Thus, then, by the process I have described, may
be produced 100 gallons of * Full Proof Brandy,'
which will bear to be tried by the hydrometer, and
the cost of which                  is,   but 21s. &\d. per gallon,

imperial measure.                  When this quantity shall have
                                           21

been reduced to seventeen per cent, underproof

(thelowest strength at which government allows
it to       be sold), by the addition of seventeen gallons
of water, with a larger proportion of Colouring,
Extract of Almond Cake, Cherry-laurel Water,
and Extract of Capsicums, it will have cost only
18*. 3d. per gallon, as the following will show.

   Example 2              :



100 gals, of proof made-up Brandy, as in Example                      L. s. d.
        the   first,   at II.    Is.   4d. T <&
                                            5
                                                    .     .      .   106 16 6
 17    gals, of Water.
                                                                      20

              pint of Colouring
                                                \         117)2136(18.           3>
        (|
        I
            \ pintofEx.    of Almond Cake I               g als - 117 per gal.
      *U pintof Cherry-laurel Water additionaK  f                    966
        1| pintofEx. of Capsicums               j
                                                                     936

117 gals, of Brandy, seventeen per cent. ui-                          30
                     , at
                          18*.   3<f.a per gallon.                    12
             * The                                            1 1 7) 366 (3f/.
                   quantity of the article increased by
              these ingred'ients pays their expense.                 351
                                                                      15
                                                                       4
                                                                      60

The reader will also perceive, by the calculation in
example the first, that, by increasing or diminish-
ing the different proportions of either one or the
other of the articles used, a corresponding difference
in the cost price, may be obtained accordingly.

  Thus, by adding twenty or twenty-five gallons
of water, instead of seventeen, with a still greater

 proportion of the flavoring ingredients mentioned,
 to the 100 gallons of proof made-up Brandy, we
 have the prices reduced to (8*. and                             17s. Id. per-
                                                c
                                22

 gallon.  As, however, it can only be done to the
 extent of the first example, by the largest of our

 Gin-shop Placarders, without the danger of disco-
 very, it is by others, whose consumption is not so
extensive,        usually   made up in quantities of ten,
 fifteen, or twenty gallons, as opportunity serves.
   And here it may very naturally be inquired, how
this can     be done without the Exciseman (whose
duty   it is to
                prevent such imposition) being able to
detect     it.    I will propose a short case,             which I
think will fully explain why, there are so few
chances of his doing so; and the rarity of such
detections is notorious.        l
                                    A Retail and Wholesale
Licensed Dealer's stock is taken on the eighteenth
of November:          we will suppose it              then to con-
sist of,

                                    Neutral-flavor-
                                                      British Brandy,
                                                        22 per cent,
                                                        underproof,
                                                        40 gallons.

  The officer does not          again survey him for a
period of twenty-eight days ; and he has sold du-
ring the intermediate time, in quantities of less*
than two gallons, as follows          :
                        23
  These several amounts, deducted from his stock
on the eighteenth of November, leave the amount
of what his stock should be, when his Exciseman

surveys it.   For example,
                       24
Thus rendering his stock as consisting of
                                     1




Proof made-up
                                 25
the articles        since his last visit;       concludes        it   is

all   right; and, without any possible means on his
part to prove it otherwise, it is passed as correct.
  Thus then we see, that, even without any diminu-
tion of strength,         the opportunities which a Gin-

shop Advertiser has of adulterating his Brandy,
are so great, that to do so, is neither a matter of
much difficulty, nor attended with any great risk
of detection.
     In making up low Brandies for what is termed
the bar, or, as the Retailers themselves
                                         express it,
                         bottle trade,' *
*
    the   glass    and                      the best judges

invariably sweeten them ;              not only in order to
conceal the strength, but, by the fullness it imparts
to  the palate, to prevent a discovery                      of    the
etceteras, used in their composition.
     It   is
               necessary also, that, I should explain, that
whenever sweets, such as British Brandy Bitters,
British Cherry Brandy, Sugar, &c. have been mix-
ed with Brandy, its strength cannot be proved by
the hydrometer.    But, as the Dealer, by a late
regulation, has to keep the per centages of the
strengths of his Brandy and other Spirits marked
on each of the casks, which contain any Spirituous
Liquors, and he takes care, that the strengths, shall

    * For the information of those who may be unacquainted with the
                                                    the '        trade
meaning of these terms I must explain to them, that      glass
refers to that class of consumers entitled dram-drinkers, the 'bottle
trade' to those customers who apply for Spirits and Wine in the

separate quantities of pint, quart, gallon, or upwards.
                              26
not appear as below the standard prescribed by Act
of Parliament, from the time it would otherwise
consume,     it is
                  only in the event of an information,
or when the      Exciseman has any very great sus-
picion, that he makes a trial of such strengths, by the
hydrometer ; or if, from any suspected spirit having
been unlawfully sweetened, he can obtain no satis-
factory result by that instrument, of ascertaining its
real strength by distillation; which is the only pro-
cess, under the circumstances I have mentioned, by
which it can be truly discovered. Should the officer
be able to find that a Spirit has been sweetened,
which has not been admitted by him to be either a
British or a Foreign Compound (independently of a

penalty, should he find it of an illegal strength^, he
can enforce one, which, by a late Act, has become
attached to all Traders who are detected of effecting
this alteration,      with such Spirituous Liquors as do
not rank under the head of Compounds.           The com-
paratively small quantities, however, of Brandy , &c.
which the Retailers manage to have on hand, made
up in a sweetened form, or of an illegal strength,
when the officer surveys their        stock, render any
detection extremely rare.
  The method therefore, of making up sixty-three
gallons of    Brandy without the possibility of its
strength being proved by the hydrometer, and to
answer the end, of concealing in some degree
such of the ingredients
              o         as         would otherwise be
too powerful,    is
                       given in the following
                                        27

  Example 3       :




       25 gals, of proof Cognac                          s.    d.             L.    s.   d.

             Brandy      .     .            .       at   28 6 per gal.        35 12      6
        7 gals, of proof Bor-
          deaux Brandy      .
                                                 -  - 25 6                     8 18      6
       10 gals, of proof Neutral-
             flavored Rum      .            .-   -       13                     6 10
        1    gal. of British Brandy


                                            .-96 - 096
             Bitters,   22 per cent.
                               .
             underproof
        1    gal. of British Cherry
             Brandy, 22 per cent.
             underproof
        5 gals, of British Bran-
                                   :         .
                                                 -  --   10                         10




        14
          dy, 22 per cent, un-
             derproof
             gals, of Water.
                                   .




       63 gals, of Brandy, at 1 7s. Id.
             gal. (strength,
                                                .
                                                 - 376
                                       if distilled,
                                                    - 13 6

                                                          H per
                                                              about
                                                                              _55    8


             22 per cent, underproof.)                                  63)1108(17. 7
                                                                      gals.   63 per gal.
                To this must be added                                         478
             8 Ibs. of Lump* Sugar, or Candy-
                   Foote.                                                      37
                                                                               **
             \ pint of Colouring.
             i       of   Extract                   of    Almond         63)444(7
                pint
                      Cake.                                                 441

             J pint of Extract of Grains of
                  Paradise.                                                     4




  This, is of capital quality, but may be deterior-
ated as much as Is. 5d. per gallon, by introducing

proof Rectified Spirits, at 12*. Qd. per gallon, in lieu
of the Bordeaux                 Another very profit-
                   Brandy.
able source,      is    also   obtained, even from the very
                            28
staves of the     Brandy puncheons.       As soon as the
Brandy is racked from   the puncheons, four or
             water are immediately put in, and
five gallons of

allowed to remain three or four weeks, at the

expiration of which time, they have imbibed a
considerable portion of spirit; this material is
called Cowe, and is chiefly used in the adulteration
of Cape and other Wines; but, as that will be
treated of when I arrive at another
                                    part of my
subject, I shall now proceed to the article of



                           RUM.
                                          *




     And here, I may observe, that, with regard to
the    opportunities for   its   adulteration, the same
facilities exist as in   Brandy, the    same impositions
are practised in point of strength, and the same
means possessed and resorted to of evading the no-
tice of the Exciseman.       I should, however, inform

my readers, that, as sweets are but seldom or never
used    in sufficient quantities with   Rum (owing to
the peculiar flavor of that Spirit) to prevent a trial
of its strength by the hydrometer, and which con-

sequently renders it more liable to the surveillance
of the Excise Officer, the Advertising Cheap Dealers,
as some alternative, are therefore in the habit of
keeping on hand a less stock of it, of an illegal
strength, though no diminution takes place in the
quantity sold, as the punishment entailed on the of-
fence (and the same with Brandy, Rum, Hollands,
                                    29

tyc.)   barely amounts to a restriction; the utmost
penalty extending- no further than the forfeiture
of whatever Spirits there may be in stock, of
an illegal strength, together,                   with the casks or
vessels containing the same.* I may here also
add, that to prevent this, requires but little in-

genuity or foresight, as Gin-shop-keepers, and par-
ticularly those on a large scale, are generally aware
of the time their stock is to be taken, a few hours
before the officer pays his visit ;f and they have,
therefore, nothing more to do (if they think he

suspects them) than to pour into those casks, con-

  * 30 Geo.                            No distiller, rectifier, corn-
               3, c. 37, sec. 31.

pounder, or dealer, shall serve, or send out, any foreign Spirits of a
lower strength than that of one in six under hydrometer proof, ac-

cording to Clark's hydrometer,* nor have in his possession any
foreign Spirit, mixed together, except Cherry or Raspberry
Brandy, of lower strength than as aforesaid, upon pain of such
Spirits being forfeited; and
                             such Spirits, with the casks or vessels

containing the same, may be seized by any Officer of Excise.
  t The periods now appointed for the surveying of Dealers' stocks
are once in every twenty-eight days; but occasionally what is
termed a check stock is taken, which generally happens about
seven days before or after the regular visit has been paid ; conse-
                                                         of strong sus-
quently, there is but little difficulty (except in cases
        of ascertaining nearly   the  precise time; or, in the event of
picion)
a surprise, as the dealer has generally a few minutes to spare
(which is all that is requisite) whilst the Exciseman is examining
and entering the permits of such goods as have been received into
stock since    the last survey,      the     vigilance   of that   officer,   to
whom no blame can be attached, and which, considering the nu-
merous duties he has to perform,        is
                                             exemplary in the extreme,        is

altogether baffled,

        Seventeen per cent, underproof, according to Sykes's hydrometer.
taining      what      Spirits     they have of         an    illegal

strength, the proper quantity of the same Spirit,
at proof, to cause the strength to ascend to within

the standard prescribed by Government.
   The impositions practised with Rum, generally
consist     purchasing the low-priced Leeward
            in
Island Ruins, and by artificial means, such as the
use of the following articles, vending it as fine old
Jamaica Rum of peculiar softness and flavor

            Ale, Porter, Shrub,
            Extract of Grace Root,
            Cherry-laurel Water,
            Extract of Grains of Paradise, or Capsicums.

   Another way is, by adulterating low-priced Ja-
maica Rums, by the admixture of Rectified Spi-
rits ofWine and Leeward Island Rum, together
with whatever is necessary of the flavoring ingre-
dients I have          named,      to   improve and render it
saleable.
   Leeward Island Rums* are but seldom brought
to this country at a higher rate of strength, than

eight or ten per cent, overproof.
   The prices      which they may generally be
                       at

bought are from 1*. 3d. and 1*. 9d. to 2*. per
gallon ; the duty is at 8$. Qd. per gallon, which is

  * It
          should be observed, that Leeward Island Rums, and the

generality of low-priced Jamaica Rums, are of so coarse and rank
a nature, as to render them almost unsaleable, unless, altered in
their flavors
                by artificial means, or blended with others of a better
description.
charged as well on the overproof; the expenses
may be reckoned at 3d. per gallon. An example,
therefore, of the cost at proof of 100 gallons of
Leeward Island Rum at ten per cent, overproof,
and examples also of the various prices to which it
may be further reduced, are given as follows                                                :




Example 1
                          100 Gallons      of       Lee-   s.   d.              L.     s.       d.
                              ward Island Rum, at 1 9 per gal. 8 15
                              Duty on 100 gals. - 8 6 -
                          *10 Gals,   of       - 450
                                           overproof- 8 6
                                                              42 10         ,




                                      ..... 03 -
                              Expenses on 100
                              gals.                                              1     5
*    For
10   gals,       of
overproof,
    Sa
                          HO Gallons of proof Rum, to cost) 56 15
wate r are
put into the
cask, which
thus makes
                      /

                      I
                               10s. 3|rf. T     3
                                            per gallon
                                                     y   A 20         .
                                                                                -
                                                                      110)1135(10.3f t\
up     .     .
                   /                                                 gals. 110  per gal.
                                                                                 35


                                                                          110)420(3
                                                                                330
                                                                                ~90~
                                                                                  4
                                                                          110)360(J
                                                                                330
                                                                                ~30
                                       32




Example 2

To reduce 55 gallons of the proof Rum in the preceding example,
       at 10$. 3Jd. j^f per gallon, to cost 9*. 5d. per gallon ;

              strength about 10 per cent, underproof.
55 gals, proof Leeward       s.   d,                L.    s.    d.
     Island Rum, at .      .10 3| i% per gal.       28    7      6
 1   gal. Porter
                  ... 2                              020
     \ gal. Shrub ... 9                              046
 4f gals. Water.
     | pint Colouring \ Quantity                    28 14        (T
     \ pint Grace Root \ increased                   20
     f pint Extract of /pays their            61)574(9. 4| fjper gal.
       Capsicums     . /
                         expense.           gals.   549        say 9*. 5d.
61 gals. Rum, at 9*. 5cf. per gal-                   25
                                                     *2
      Ion; strength about 10 per
       cent, underproof.                      61)300(4
                                                    244
                                                    56
                                                     4

                                                    183
                                              33




Example 3
     To reduce 55 gallons of                the proof Rum in          Example    1,   at
10*. 3|rf. 7^,% per gallon, to cost                  8s. 8|rf. per gallon ; strength,

17 per cent, underproof, the lowest at which Government allows
of its sale.

55 gals, proof Leeward                 s.   d.                 L,.    $.   d.
      Island Rum, at .             .10 3$ 3f per gal.          28     7     6
 1    gal. Porter      ... 2                                    020
     I gal. Ale    .... 4                                       020
     \ gal. Shrub      ... 9                                    046
 9 gals. Water.
      J pint Colouring \                                       28 16
                                                                20
           pint Orace Root            Quantity
                                  I
      |

      f-   pint Cherry-lau- \increased                     66)576(8.       8f|
                                                                           per gal.
           rel Water     .                  their        gals. 528  say Ss. S}d.
                                  f pays
                              .



                                                                48    P er S aK
      \ pint Extract         off expense*
                         .
                              /
                                                                12
           Capsicums
66    gals. Rum, at 8*. 8|rf. per gal-                      66)576(8
           lon ; strength,     17 per        cent,             528

           underproof.
                                                                 48
                                                                  4
                                                            66)192(|
                                                               132
                                                                 60
                                   34
Or if fifty-five gallons of the proof Rum in Ex-
ample       be further reduced to twenty-five and
           1st

thirty-two per cent, underproof, (the former strength
referred to in page 17, and the latter in note *

page 17), by the addition of the proper proportion
of water, and a larger proportion of the flavoring
materials and Extract of Capsicums, the prices
would be 7*. lid. and 7s. 2d. per gallon.
  The terms on which Rums are advertised                         for
                             1
'
    Ready money only,            are 10s. 4d. ; 10s. Sd. ;   1   Is.

Qd. ; 12s. ;        13s. 4d. per gallon (at the two
                   and
latter    prices, the strength of the article to be
 proof'); and I scarcely need, therefore, pursue my
'




calculations for the purpose of showing my readers,
the various and enormous profits obtained on Rum,

by our cheap Placarders and Advertisers, and the
impositions practised on the health and purse of the
public,under the plausible pretext that * Ready
money only* enables the modest Dealer to dispose
of these fine articles at prices so low.           In offering,
however, one more example of a mode of making
up a Rum of              exceedingly Jine flavor? I wish to
                     *




observe, that a restriction exists, only, as regards
the admixture-of the Rectified Spirits I have al-
luded     to, in   my remarks on Brandy, but that all
Rums of whatever quality, may be, what is termed,
blended together.    Hence it is, that a Wholesale
Spirit Advertiser, is unable to make use of the ar-
ticle    of British Rectified Spirits with          Rum,     be-
                                   35

 cause, if he ventures to draw a permit, in order to
account for a decrease, and does not send the
goods,* he is liable to a heavy penalty if dis-
covered; or, should he succeed in obtaining a suf-
ficientdecrease to answer his purpose, he is as

equally liable to have the corresponding- increase
occasioned in his Rum, not only forfeited, but
also accompanied with a similar                  heavy penalty ;f
whereas, the Gin-shop-keeper,                  who can send out
whatever he pleases from                his retail    bar, without

having to render any account, may use it with im-
punity; and, as he does not apply it any further than
as the decreases on his           Rum will allow, he is above
all fear of detection. J


   * 21 Geo.                         Dealers taking out a permit, and
             3, c. 55, sec. 21.
not sending   away the goods, nor returning the permit within the
time of its limitation, forfeit trehle the value of the goods j and the

goods also, if on taking stock there shall not appear a sufficient
decrease to answer such permit.
  f 21 Geo. 3,     c.   55, sec. 29.  Dealers having an increase in
their stocks, over and    above what the officer found on the last pre-
ceding survey, such decrease is to he deemed as brought in with-
out permits or certificates, and an equal quantity is to be forfeited,
with the penalty of 50/.
   t   To what extent he may occasionally make use of the article
of British Rectified Spirits, I refer my readers to the case I have

cited,   showing the facility and security with which Brandy may
be manufactured, see page 23.
                                         36



      Example 4
 To make up as fine Jamaica Rum, 101 gallons, to cost Us. per
                       gallon ; the strength, proof,
 30 gals. Jamaica Rum, at                5. d.         L- s.           d.
    25 per cent.overproof, at             2 6 per gal. 3 15
    Duty on 30 gals.      . -             8 6         12 15
      Duty on 1\      gals, of
      the overproof (propor-
      tion on 30 gals, at 25

      per cent, overproof)
                                .         86              3        39
 30 gals. Leeward Island
    Rum, at 8 per cent.
      overproof                           19              2       12   6
      Duty on 30 gals.          .-86                     12       15
      Duty on 2       gals, of

      overproof (the propor-
      tion on   30 gals, at 8
      per cent, overproof) .
                                     -   86               1        13
 20   gals. Rectified Spirits
      56 per cent, overproof,
      including the overproof            19 6            19       10
 21 gals. Water, being the                               55       12   6
      proportion requisite to
      reduce the whole to                         101)1112(11 ^-.per gal.
                                                 gals.101 say 11$. per gal.
      proof
      1 pint colouring      .   .\   Quantity            102
       f pint Ex. Grace Root \increased                  101
       | pint Cherry-laurel /pays their                       1
           Water      .     .
                          ./expense.                      12
101   gals, of/nc Proof Rum, at 1 1*.
                                                          18

              per gallon.
                                                         72
                                 37

     This, reduced to the relative strengths of ten,
seventeen, twenty-five, and thirty-two per cent, un-

derproof, with the proportionate quantities of Ale
or Porter jto soften it, and Extract of Grains of

Paradise, or Capsicums, to give it the appearance
of a greater strength than it possesses, costs 10*. ;
9*. 5d. ; 8s. 9|rf. ;     and 8s. 4d. per gallon ; and my
Readers may, therefore, (when they consider, be-
sides, that the incalculable expenses of advertising,
&c. are not reckoned in any of the foregoing ex-
amples,) form some notion of the extent, to which
the tempting opportunities of adulteration are
                                                pur-
sued with this article, and the profits which such

practices enable the unfair Dealer to realize at the
placarded prices.
     Without enlarging, however, on the frauds prac-
tised with Hollands, by the admixture of a pro-
portion of two-thirds of Rectified Spirits to one of

Hollands,* and as well also with Compounds, such
as    Peppermint, Cloves,           fyc.   we now        arrive     at
that grand climacteric of all adulteration in the ar-
ticle of Spirits, viz.



                      BRITISH GIN.
          no doubt appear an extraordinary cir-
     It will

cumstance, to such of my Readers as are unac-
quainted with the nature of the concerns, at which
   * Rectified                                           if reduced to
               Spirits costs about 125. 6rf. per gallon,
proof.   Hollands  pays  the same duty  as  Brandy,  and  is usually to


                                  D
                                          38
so large a proportion of this compound is consumed,
when / state the fact (well known to all persons
connected with the trade) that sums, of from one
thousand, to three thousand pounds, and, where
Wine trades have been attached, as much as from
three to six thousand pounds have been given, for
the good-wills of            Gin-shops, possessed of only
twenty-one years'         leases,              depending solely on the
will of the magistrate for their licenses being re-

newed, and held at rents from 151. to 2001. per an-
num. But I have little doubt, that, all surprise will
cease, when, in addition to the profitable adulter-
ations which, as I have shown, are practised with

Brandy and Rum, I have exposed those also,
which are carried on with this article, and that of
Wine.
be purchased (if by the puncheon) at about 25s. Gd. per gallon,
full proof strength, thus

         20 gals, of Rectified                  s.   d.               L.    s.   d.

              Spirits, at proof, at             12 6 per gal. 12 10
         10   gals, of Hollands,
              at proof       .        .   - 25 6                      12 15
makes up 30 gallons of proof Hollands,                                25 5
              to cost only 16*. lOd. per                               %Q

              gallon, being 5*. 8d. per                      30)505(16 10 per
                                                          S als 3Q-
                                                                       S aL
              gallon less than the duty
              on   genuine Hollands ;
              and which, if further re-                               lov
              duced   only       to       10    per
              cent,   underproof,              costs
              but 15s. 3fd. per gallon.                      30(300(10
                                                                      300
                                     39
      In order, however, to convey a sufficiently clear
 notion of the impositions to which this Spirit is pe-

 culiarly exposed, I             must premise a few observa-
 tions on its nature, and on the regulations it is sub-

jected to, from the earliest period of its manufac-
ture.

      The Malt Distiller (who belongs of a different
class to the Rectifier, and whose business, it must be

borne in mind, is altogether distinct and separate)
is the person, who first commences the manufac-
ture of Gin.   It is most commonly made from

malt, and consists in placing a wash, prepared from
the grain, in a state of fermentation, to deprive it
of all saccharine matter, and after it has gone

through       this process, in distilling it into what is

usually denominated Malt Spirit, or Whiskey.
   The enormous duties, however, with which the
trade of Malt Distillers             is
                                          chargeable, they being
compelled to distill above a certain quantity of Spi-
     immense bulk at a time, and the large capital
rit of

which is required, rendering it possible only for a
few individuals of great wealth to engage in                        this

business,       the    natural consequence              has been,     to

produce a monopoly* and community of interests
     * This
            monopoly of the Malt Distillers attracted the attention
of Government, and, as some restriction, they have permitted the
distillation of Gin,   from Rum, or Scotch or Irish Whiskey ; but
as the Malt Distillers have reduced their
                                              prices to the
                                                            same   level,
and their article is generally                       at which it is sold,
                                 preferred, the terms
though lower, continue as invariable as previously to the re-
striction.Another circumstance, which also confines it as a rno-
                                   D 2
                                 40

amongst them ; to preserve which, from the invasion
of competitors they have introduced the practice
of fixing- a stated price for their goods, (from
which none of them depart,) and of periodically, or
according to circumstances, raising and lowering
those prices, to the whole of the trade of                      Rec-
tifiers indiscriminately.

   This Spirit is sold by the Malt Distiller, at a
certain definite overproof strength, to the Recti-

fier, who, by a second distillation, deprives it of its

essential oil;  and then again, by a third process
through his still, (with the addition of Juniper Ber-
ries and other ingredients,) he converts it into the
article called British         Gin.
   In consequence of this system, the Rectifiers, into
whose hands the Spirit next passes, and who make
      Gin, are obliged to adopt the same course
it into                                                               ;



and, therefore, set that price to their Gin-shop cus-
tomers, and others of the trade, which will yield
them a fair profit, and at which no competitors can
undersell them, except at a partial loss.

nopoly, is this: no sooner does any Rectifier attempt to undersell
the stated price which has been given out, than he is immediately
refused any further supply of Spirit from the Malt Distiller; and
should he evade the obstacle thus thrown in his way, by manufac-

turing his Gin from Scotch or Irish Whiskey, or Rum, the whole of
the trade immediately lower their prices to a standard considerably
below that at which he    is
                               selling,   (however great the   sacrifice

may be at which they do it,) until he is compelled, from the pros-
pect of either losing the whole of his connexion, or suffering him-
self to be totally ruined, to give up the contest, and return to the

old price.
                                  41

     There are two strengths only, at which the Rec-
tifier sends this article of unsweetened Gin        from his
stock ; these are seventeen, and twenty-two per
cent, underproof; and, as any variation from them
would only occasion a proportionate alteration in
price, none is ever made.              The cause, which pro-
duced the seeming inconsistency, of having these
two strengths in particular, was as follows:
The first Act of Parliament relating to this sub-
ject, provided, that British            Brandy, Gin, and   all

liquors under the head of           Compounds, should not
exceed in strength twenty-two per cent, underproof,
and a penalty was inflicted on persons selling it
at any  higher rate of strength.    Subsequently,
however, another Act was passed, which altered the
limitation to seventeen per cent, underproof; thus,

making the article of unsweetened Gin saleable, at
a degree five per cent, stronger.
                                But, the traders
generally having become accustomed to buy their
Gin     twenty-two per cent, underproof, and the
        at

penalty attaching only on the Spirit being sold at
a higher per centage than laid down in the last
Act, both strengths are retained, in order to suit the
choice of the purchaser, though by far the greater

proportion,   is   still
                           disposed of, at twenty-two per
cent, underproof.

     With Gin, after it is sweetened, no restriction,
as to   any particular strength, continues to prevail,
as    it then constitutes, what is termed Cordial,

or sweetened Gin,          it   cannot be tried by the hy-
                                                42

drometer; and is sold by the Rectifier, Wholesale
Dealer, or Gin-shop-keeper, at any reduced rate of
strength, under the two just mentioned.
   But, as to purchase it in this state                         is,   the~most
                      to the Wholesale, as to the
unprofitable, as well
Retail Dealer           ;
                                it    is,   with scarcely any exception,

bought by them at either of the strengths, seven-
teen or twenty-two per cent, underproof, and they
afterwards sweeten or make it up themselves.
   The present fixed and stated cash price, after all
deductions, to every description of trade consumers,

indiscriminately,                    is     for the former strength       10*.

per gallon, and for the latter strength 9*. 4d. per
gallon ; and my Readers must, therefore, when they
see Gin advertised at 5*. 9d. \ 6*. 6d. ; 7*. 6d. ;
and      4d. per gallon, be naturally somewhat
        9*.

curious, to learn the extent of reduction, and the
means by which that reduction is effected, so as to
render  it either saleable or drinkable
                                          (saying no-
thing of its
             wholesomeness) at such prices, and at the
same time to enable the advertiser to derive a clear
average cash profit of from 1*. 6d. to 2*.* per gallon.
  To clear up this mystery is my task, and the
first
        point, to which                     I   shall direct attention is the

flavor, that         most essential particular in the art of
making up Gin               ;
                                 after which, I will present a scale,

showing the            different proportions of                 aqua puree
(pure water) necessary to reduce                             100 gallons of
   *
       This, I can vouch for as a fact, having myself distilled a por-
tion of what   is   termed Gin at the prices quoted.
                                      43

Gin to the prices at which it is advertised and pla-
carded, and the further reduction requisite to clear
the profit of 1*. 6d. per gallon.
     The    list    of ingredients used in                flavoring or
making up           the Gin as advertised,              is   somewhat
startling, not less for its length than for the articles
of which it is composed.                   They are as follows     :




      Oil of Vitriol,                 Sulphuric JEther,
      Oil of Turpentine,              Extract of Grace Root,
      Oil of Juniper,                 Extract of Angelica Root,
      Oil of Cassia,                  Extract of Capsicums, or
      Oil of Carraways,               Extract of Grains of Paradise,
      Oil of Almonds,                 Water, Sugar, &c.

     With respect to the first mentioned of these ar-
ticles,    viz.    Oil of Vitriol,perhaps the most
                                           it is


important of the whole list, as, from the pungency
it
     imparts to the Spirit, it mainly assists in keeping
up the appearance of strength, when applied to
the nose, as the Extracts of Capsicums or of Grains

of Paradise do when applied to the taste.                         Hence
it is,    that, in     smelling a bottle containing Gin, in
the flavoring of which Oil of Pitriol has been em-

ployed, the pungency is so great, immediately after
the bung has been taken out, as almost to make
the eyes water, which is never the case, even with
Gin at its highest strength, previously to its being
sweetened.
  The quantities in which it is applied are various,
according to the judgment of those, who have occa-
sion to require its aid,
                                      though I have every reason
to believe        it is   used   in   the greatest proportion to
                                   44
those    Gins,       which    are       reduced      to     the    lowest

strengths and prices, and by those persons, who are
considered the most knowing.
     Before, however,        it is      mixed with the other fla-
voring ingredients,          it    is   altered in    its       form by a
process, in which either Sour Cyder or Lime Water
is
   employed and under which alteration it is, I be-
                 ;



lieve, added in the proportions of from one to four

pints to   100 gallons-of Gin.
     As regards Oil of Turpentine and Sulphuric
JEther,    ("theTurpentine having been changed
from its oily state, by means of Lime Water, the
 Whites of Eggs, or Spirits of Wine}, they are in-
cluded in the measure of about one eighth of a pint
of the former, and half a
                         pint of the latter, (with
the other materials used for the flavor,) for 100

gallons,   and chiefly, for the purpose of mingling
and concealing the Oil of Vitriol, in the made up
Gin, and giving          it       what     is   termed      *
                                                                a delicate
flavor!*   .




     The Extracts of Grace and Angelica Roots are
used, for imparting a fullness of body and flavor
to that vast proportion of the Compound, which is

merely water; and, by their relative bitters, keep-
ing the taste, as nearly as possible, to that of the Gin
previously to any reduction. They are applied with
 the other ingredients in quantities of about a quart
 of each, to the 100 gallons of manufactured gin.
     The remaining Oils, named in the list, require
 the nicest discrimination in their application; and
 that their forms be altered by the same means, as
                                      45

are employed with Oil of Turpentine.      They are
all
    exceedingly powerful, and the proportions made
use of, with the rest of the materials, (previously to

            undergone any change,) seldom ex-
                1

their having
ceed a quarter of an ounce of the Oils of Cassia,

Carraways, and Almonds; and of the Oil of Juni-
per, one ounce.
    With the nature and properties of the Extracts
of Capsicums, and Grains of Paradise, my Readers
are already acquainted.   They are added, with
the other ingredients, to the 100 gallons of made

up Gin, (if reduced to the lowest price,) in quanti-
ties of about a quart of either.

    That the proportions of the different ingredients
I have named, are varied according to the judg-
ments and tastes of the Advertising Wholesale
Dealer or Gin-shop-keeper, as well, as that, some-
times several articles are struck out altogether, or
their places supplied by others equally deleterious,
there can be       doubt ; but, that the materials
                    little

are as numerous, and used in as considerable quan-

tities,   is   proved        beyond        all   question,   by   this

simple calculation               it
                        requires forty-eight gal-
                             :




lons of water to reduce 100 gallons of Gin, pur-
chased at its cheapest rate, to one of the prices
at which it is advertised, (that at 6*. Qd. per gal-

lon,) and the still further addition of forty -four
gallons more of water (making a total of ninety-
two gallons), to allow of the profit of                 Is. 6d.   per
gallon.
    This alone must be conclusive to every mind,
                                  46
that practices, such as I have
                             pointed out, do exist ;
and when it is considered that the evils consequent
upon them fall most heavily on the poorer classes
of society, no one will deny that this system calls

loudly for the interference of the Government.
The idle reply, that the weaker such a compound
as Gin is made, the less injury it is
                                           likely to work,
is no answer to such a case; because, although
strong Spirits may be mischievous to the health
          1




and morals of the lower classes, the drinking such
compositions as I have described must also be per-
nicious in the highest degree to the constitution
and comfort of the people ; and tends only to enrich
a class of the community, who have neither ho-

nesty nor usefulness enough, to entitle them to the
wealth they obtain.
     In presenting my Readers with a scale, showing
the different proportions of water necessary to re-
duce 100 gallons of Gin, twenty-two per cent, un-
derproof, at 9*. 4d.         per gallon, to the relative
prices at which it
                      is advertised, viz. 9s. 4c?. ; 8*. ;

7*. (id. ; 6s. Qd. ; and 5*. 9d. per gallon, I should

premise that, although I have set
                                         the limit at that
                                       the              best
quantity, for the sake of conciseness,
judges, or those whose consumption
                                          is the   most con-
siderable, make it up in vats; and that the larger
the dimensions of the vat, the greater extent of re-
duction the Gin will bear, and the better is the fic-
titious       flavor concealed.    The quantity of lump
sugar used to 100 gallons of Gin, varies from
twenty-five to thirty-five pounds, according to the
                                    47
taste of the maker           up ;    but, for the sake of accu-

racy, 1 have reckoned thirty pounds in the follow-
ing- scale,
            as being the proper proportion, and I

have considered the ingredients to pay their own

expence.
                               A SCALE,
Showing the quantity of Water necessary to reduce 100 gallons of
  Gin, at 22 per cent, underproof, to the various Prices at which
  it is   Advertised and Placarded, and the           still       further reduction

  requisite to allow the Profits as stated.


  100 gallons of Gin at 9s. 4d.
  30 pounds of Lump Sugar, at lid.
                                       .... 176                     L.
                                                                    46
                                                                          *.

                                                                         13
                                                                               d.

                                                                               4
                                             .    .



      Flavoring, &c. pays itself in the quantity increased
                                                              .



                                                                     OOP
                                                                    48         10

                        If reduced, to cost
                                     48
one of the higher prices at which                    it   is   advertised,

(viz.
         at 8*. per gallon),          it     takes twenty gallons of

water; and, to allow the profit of Is. Gd. per gal-
lon, the further addition of twenty-seven gallons and
three quarts more, of the                    same liquid, causing, a
total of forty-seven gallons                   and three quarts of
water; and making up (within one quart) one
hundred, and forty-eight gallons of Gin, to sell at
8*. per gallon, attended with a cash profit of Is. Qd.

per gallon.
     The extensive adulteration requisite to render
such a compound capable of being drank, as Gin,
must be so obvious, that I consider it superfluous to
add more on this part of the subject.
     By an Act of Parliament, all individuals whose
incomes, convenience, or any other circumstance,
enables them only to purchase their spirits in quan-
tities of less than two gallons,                are obliged to resort
                          so much adulteration is
to the  places at which
                should they apply to a Wholesale
practised; for,
Dealer, and manage to obtain the quantity they re-
quire of what is good
                                 and wholesome, if it be under

the relative profits considerably more, than stated on some of the

prices   in   this   scale : for the sake,    however, of having no mis-
statement, 1 have supposed the whole, only as laid down ; and, that,
I   am correct in my assertion the fact will sufficiently prove, that
some Officers of Excise have, on one or two occasions, made
seizures of Gin at as low a strength as 92 per cent, underproof,

concluding it to be illegal ; but, which was afterwards returned,
as there is no law to limit the strength of this compound, in point
of weakness.
                                49

two gallons, he is open to an information from the
purchaser for
              a considerable period ; and, on con-
viction, to a heavy penalty.   The single fact that
the quantity of genuine Spirits which passes into
the hands of Gin-shop-keepers,* previously to any
adulteration or reduction, amounts to a proportion
of more than two-thirds of the whole of what is sold
in the united kingdom,    ought to point out the ne-
cessity of some restriction, which can only he ren-
dered effectual by placing the trade of the Whole-
sale Wine and Spirit Merchant on                 a more equal

footing with that of the Retail Dealer possessed of
a Wholesale License. And, if I may be allowed to
hazard an opinion respecting the latter, I would
observe, that, let the limitation with regard to the
smallest quantity of Spirit, which a WholesaleWine
and Spirit Merchant should be permitted to sell, be
fixed at one quart or a gallonf (instead of two

gallons, the present extent), let the strictest in-
quisition be instituted, to prevent any greater op-
portunity for   adulteration or imposition, than he
possesses at present,
                      and cause him to pay for this
additional privilege in the same ratio as the Gin-

shop-keeper does for the advantage of a Wholesale
License, and a considerable check, both to the

  * This is                                      under the head of
             supposed to include as well   all

Public-house and Tavern-keepers.
  f It may be as well to remark here, that, with regard to Wine,
the Wholesale Wine Merchant's license enables   him to sell it in
quantities as small as a single bottle.
                            50

system, and     its
                      consequences, would at once be
raised ; for,                 Wine Merchant,
                as the respectable
 who depends more on the quality of his article,
than on any high sounding pretensions, would then
have as customers for Spirits, such of his connection
as, through necessity (from their being con-
sumers of quantities under two gallons), are now
obliged to resort to the Gin-shops, and the chance
of the quality of his goods bringing to him many
others, who have found out the nature of the trash

they have been used to purchase, it would at once,
create a competition of quality, instead of price       ;


which would soon reduce the cheap placarders and
                              few in number, as
advertisers of Spirits, to be as
there are now of cheap wine venders who are not

Gin-shop-keepers.
   The Public would be enabled to purchase a
bottle, half-dozen, or dozen, as their convenience

suited, of those whose livelihood (as they    do not
pretend to sell at less than cost price) depends on
their disposing solely, of that which is of good qua-

lity ;nor would the Dealers, thus placed on a fair
level with Gin-shop-keepers, have that class for

customers,  who are dram-drinkers (and who pay
but little attention, to what they pour down their
throats, so long, as their palates are satisfied) to
render such Dealers at all indifferent as to whether
the description of what they vend be good or bad.
The proposed alteration, would not afford them any
increased facilities for adulteration, that might not
                           51

be prevented, by regulations, that could be provided
for the purpose ; and how any measure of the kind,
to accomplish so desirable an end, could be consi-
dered an act of injustice to the Retailer, appears
to me difficult to conceive; whilst he is allowed

  independently of his other business, and in the
possession of a Wholesale License, (for which he
pays but   10/.   per annum)    to   enjoy advantages,
infinitely superior to those of the Wholesale Dealer,
inasmuch, as from the means afforded him, by his Re-
tail department, for adulterating the whole of his

Wines and Spirits, to any extent he pleases, he is
enabled, completely to undersell the fair and respect-
able trader.      1 leave this suggestion to the judg-
ments of my Readers, and shall be more than satis-
fied, if the representation I have made,   may engage
the attention of that Government whose duty it is,
and whose inclination it is professed to be, to place
every branch of trade on the broadest and most
equitable basis, and whose interest, not less than its
duty and its inclination, are involved in the present
case ; because, if some such alteration was once

adopted, a much greater proportion of the genuine
Spirit, which pays the regular duty, would necessarily
be sold ; and some of that money, which at present

goes exclusively into the pockets of the Advertising
Gin-shop-keeper, would then find its way into the
coffers of the State.

  Another method, however, whereby the Public
might perhaps be still better preserved, from the
                           52

consequences of these deceptive practices, than offer-
ed by that which I have already proposed, deserves
particular mention ; as it is one which has received
the sanction of the Legislature, and would in all

probability, have been carried into effect before this
time, but for the machinations and co-operation of
a powerful body of men, to the detriment of the
Wholesale Dealers \ but than whom (speaking of
the latter), as a class, who ought to unite in every
effort for themaintenance of their rights against
the encroachments of the Gin-shop-keepers pos-
sessed of Wholesale Licenses, none evince greater

supineness or want of energy ; and who, instead of
publicly exposing, as they ought to do, the base
frauds which are practised (and which, owing to
the facilities afforded to the Retailers, are even
sanctioned by the Legislature under the present

system), are suffering their very means of sub-
sistence, to be gradually and imperceptibly under-
mined and destroyed.       A remarkable instance of
this indifference to their interest, on the part of the

Wholesale Dealers, was shown on the passing of
the Distillery Act lately framed, and now in force.
It was contemplated to introduce into that Act a

clause,   by which   all persons possessed of Retail
Licenses should      not be allowed to vend goods,
under a Wholesale License, on the same premises
on which he retailed them    ;   but, that whatever Re-
tailerwas desirous of retaining both Licenses, should
be placed on a par with other Wholesale Dealers,
                         53

by being compelled to conduct the wholesale de-
partment of his business, separately, and at a certain
distance from the place at which his retail trade
was carried on ; thus, not a little evidencing the
suspicions entertained by Government on the very
subject I  have been discussing. The Gin-shop-
keepers, however, alive to this annihilation of their
means of deceiving the public any longer, by a de-
putation to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and
by representations (the importance of which, to
their own individual interests, must be pretty clear

to my Readers), procured the obliteration of this

obnoxious clause, unanswered by the proper and cor-
rect counter-statements,    which ought, and could
have been made, on the part of the respectable
Wine and Spirit Merchant, and which, there can
be little doubt, would have had the effect of causing
the completion of the Act, in its original form.
  The    following explanation, however, which
places the case on its own merits, and as it really
stands, will enable my Readers to draw their own
conclusions on the points I have submitted to them,
with respect to this portion of my subject, and may
not perhaps, altogether, be considered uninteresting.
  The present mode by which a Wholesale Spirit
Dealer's stock is taken, is such, as not only to ren-
der it impossible for him to adulterate his goods, or

by any means to defraud his customers, but even to
place needless difficulties in the way of his business,
though nothing more be desired by him, than to
                           E
                          54
conduct it on a fair and equitable     basis,     whether
with regard to the Revenue or the Public ; whilst
the person who is possessed of a Wholesale License,
united with his Retail one,  is enabled to impose

on both with impunity ; his wholesale stock being
taken as connected with his retail trade, and on a
principle totally different, to that arranged for those
who belong to the other class.
  To enable my Readers thoroughly to compre-
hend this difference, it may be necessary to explain
it in a technical
                  way, as more clearly elucidating
the extensive latitude afforded, where the whole-
sale and retail businesses are conducted on one, and

the same premises.
  Of a Wholesale Dealer's stock (who is exclu-
sively such), an account is taken in what is techni-
cally   termed Proof Spirit t which    is   thus:    The
separate per centages of spirit contained in his
Brandy, Rum, Gin, &c. is ascertained by means of
the hydrometer, and is equalized so as to appear a
whole quantity, under each particular head, ac-
cording to its sort \ whatever is brought into stock
of spirits, the permit must either specify the per

centage of strength of the article, and the quantity,
or only the total quantum of Proof Spirits, which is
contained in the bulk of the goods protected by it;
and in sending out    Spirits, the Dealer    is
                                                  obliged
also to express, on his request note, what per centage
of strength the liquor is of, before he can obtain the

permit.    On the Exciseman's attending to take the
                                 55

stock,    he receives      all   the permits by which the
Dealer has had         in Spirits, since the last survey,

notes down the total quantity of Proof Spirits they

denote, under the proper distinctions, to which is
added the amount of Proof Spirits, of each kind,
which formed the balance of the last stock.                     The
quantity of Spirits, whether Brandy, Rum, &c.
contained in the various casks, and their different

strengths,      is then   ascertained ; and, together with
the amount of what has been sent out
                                        (of which
the officer has a previous account from the vouch-

ers, or request notes, left at the Permit Office by
the Dealer for all the permits he has had occasion
to draw, since the last time of taking stock, and
which must be so left, before he can obtain any of
such permits), reduced, so as to exhibit the total

quantum of Proof Spirits,     of each description.
Should this, on being deducted from the total,
formed by the last balance, and what has been had
into stock since added together,              show any excess,
(6 Geo. 4, c. 80, sec. 109,)
                                       '
                                           Such excess shall be
deemed and taken to be spirits illegally received,
and a quantity of spirits of the like kind shall and
may be seized out of any part of the stock of such
Wholesale Dealer,* by any Officer or Officers of
Excise     ;
               and the Wholesale Dealer in whose stock,
custody, or possession, such excess shall be found,
shall forfeit and lose the sum of twenty shillings



       * This Act also includes Rectifiers and
                                                 Compounders.
                                 E 2
                            56

per gallon, for every gallon of such excess:
                                              and if
there be any decrease in such slock, not duly ac-
counted for by the spirits sent out with permit, and

exceeding Jive per centum on the balance or stock
left on hand
               at the last preceding account, together
with the      quantity   lawfully received, the
                         since

 Wholesale Dealer in whose stock such decrease is
found shall forfeit and lose the sum of twenty shil-
lings per gallon, for every gallon of such defi-
          1

ciency.
   Thus we see that a Wholesale Dealer's chance of
defrauding the public, with respect to deteriorated
Spirits, is a very slender one indeed; because,
should he either wilfully, or in error, state the

strengths on his permits, for the goods he may send
out, at a higher rate than is correct, an increase to
the same amount, as occasioned by such errors, is
sure to be found in his stock, by the officer on the
next survey ; or, if at a less rate, or any accident
occurs, by which a portion of Spirit is lost, a de-
crease would appear in the same manner, for

which, we perceive, on reference to the Act, the
dealer is as liable to punishment as though he had
obtained an increase by receiving into his stock a

quantity of smuggled goods.
   A Retailer's stock (although a wholesale business
 may be supplied from it, and conducted on one, and
 the same premises), receives no difference in the
 mode of its survey from that of a person who is
 entirely or exclusively a retail dealer,   The techni-
                              57
cal term by   which this method of taking stock is
distinguished from that adopted for the wholesale
dealer, is its being surveyed according to the
bulk of gallons, without reference to the relative

strengths of the Spirits, so long as they are
not below the legal standard, nor is any further
account taken of the strengths of the Spirits, in a
Retail and Wholesale Licensed Dealer's stock, un-
der this regulation, than may be said to amount
to a nominal preventive, for his having any very

large quantity on hand, of an illegal strength, when
the officer pays his visit.
     The Spirits a Retailer may receive into stock,
are  taken according to the bulk or number of

gallons contained in the cask, or casks, permitted
to him, and whatever the
                         strength may be, whether
underproof or overproof, he is allowed credit to re-

duce or keep     it,   at   any standard he pleases, not
exceeding seventeen per centum underproof, if it
be foreign Spirits, such as Brandy, Rum, &c. but
if   British, such     as Gin, or    Compounds, such as
Noyeau,     Shrub,      &c. to      any reduced   rate   of

strength, that may be necessary to meet his views.
   For any kind of Spirits, he may have occasion
to permit out,   he is obliged to state on the request
note, for the permit,   (and which is again tran-
scribed on the latter by the Excise perm it- writer)
the strength of such Spirits, but for no other pur-

pose, than to render the goods seizable, if they
should be stopped by any officer, and the strength
                                   58

stated by the Dealer,   and that which the liquor
really possesses, be found not to agree.
  The Retailer, on having his stock surveyed, is
only liable,       upon ascertaining the number of
                 if,


gallons in    stock, and what has been sent out by

permit, there should appear any
                                 increase beyond
his last balance, and what has been had in- since,
added together, or to have seized on account of
being deficient in strength, only such Spirits, as
are found to be so, when the officer entertains a

suspicion,    and chooses to make an examination ;*
and with respect to having any increase discovered,
as the Retail     and Wholesale trades, are both sup-
plied from one and the same source, and a constant
sale is taking place over the Retail bar, there is

but little danger of the officer, meeting with such
a result at the time of his visit, (nor indeed at any

other), as the Dealer always manages to retain a
small decrease from his last stock, (for the sake of

appearances), on whatever article he may have de-
teriorated,    and to render himself always safe, he
never makes an addition to any of his goods, in
the way of adulteration, until he is afforded suf-
ficient room, in such goods,             (by what has been re-
tailed of them), to admit of that addition, without

exceeding his credit.
  But as nothing can better illustrate, or more

  *   How easily this   is   to   be avoided, although the offence be
committed   to a considerable       extent, may be gathered from the
commencement of my remarks on Rum, and from note f (page 2'J.)
                                    59

 truly explain the small chance of detection, which
 exists under the present system, and the manner
 in which a Retailer,
                      possessed of a Wholesale Li-
 cense, is enabled to carry on his impositions, to so

 great an extent, and with so much impunity, than
 the case I have cited, in the adulterations of

 Brandy, (page 23,)             to that I refer
                                        my Readers,
 with the certainty of its opening their eyes, to the
 means by which our Gin-shop-keepers are able to
 placard       cheap     Spirits,    at   such   extremely low
 prices, and, also, that it must bear convincing tes-
 timony, to several of the most important facts, I
 have hitherto advanced.
      In thus, however, apparently advocating            1

                                                             the
 cause of those fair dealers, who are injured in their
sale of Spirits, by the cheap prices, and specious
pretences, of the Advertising and Placarding Gin-
shop-keeper, and in publicly exposing the means,
by which alone the different impositions are ef-
fected, situated as I am, it is a matter of little im-

portance to me, personally, whether or not my
motives may be appreciated, by the individuals
whose mal-practises I have attacked. The value
of my observations, must depend on the truth of
the facts, and the force of the arguments, I have
adduced.        That abuses do exist, that these abuses
originate,      in theundue and mischievous facility
afforded to  Gin-shop-keepers, and other Retail
Dealers, I think I have proved, and I apprehend it
is   no less   satisfactorily   made out, that some alter-
                               60
ation should be made in the system, for the sake
of the fair Trader, for the benefit of the revenue,
and for the protection of the public health.             I feel

it,   however, due to many respectable and worthy
Gin-shop-keepers, who are neither cheap sellers
nor advertisers, who vend at a moderate price, and
who, by fairly earned and equitable profits, main-
tain themselves, and their families, to state, that

although the facts, with regard to the facilities for
adulterating, apply to the whole of their class, as
a body without a single reservation, yet that the
circumstance of those facilities, being rendered
subservient       to   base   purposes,    will   rest    more
strongly on the individuals, who are ready to bear
down, all of the same trade, whether belonging to
their own community, or not who live by fair
dealing, or who happen, unfortunately, to be less
knowing than themselves; and, before I conclude
             my subject, I cannot but bear tes-
this division of

timony from my personal experience, and know-
ledge, of the exceptions, which the methods re-
sorted to, in the conduct of business, by the more
honourable individuals, to whom I have alluded,
form, to the profligate, and dishonest contrivances,
of their placarding rivals.
      1 cannot but
              expect, that this Treatise, will excite
the rancour of the advertisers, and be construed to
be, as indeed it in some measure is, an attack upon
them.      This      consideration   is   one which      is   far
from discouraging, because it is by the outcry they
                                 61

may make, that the Public will be enabled to esti-
mate their pretensions they who have most reason
                             ;


to fear exposure, will naturally cry out the loudest,

or, as in the old adage
       '
           The worst spoke in the wheel will crack first.'

  Leaving, however, the facts to speak for them-
selves, and    my Readers to draw their own conclu-
sions from those facts, I shall          now proceed to the
second, though not less important, part of this
Treatise.
                                    II.


                                 WINE.
              " One
                      glasse of drink, I got by chance,
              '"Twas Claret when it was in France,
                "But now from it moche wider:
              "I think a man might make as good
              "With green crabbes, bojTd in Brazil wood,
                " And half a
                             pinte of Cjjder."
                                               An Old Song.

     USED in moderation, and as dispensing by its                1




cheering influence, an additional zest to several of
our social enjoyments, Wine may be said to form
one of the blessings of life.               That it constitutes a
luxury, to which more consideration is attached
than to almost any other whatever, is sufficiently ob-
vious to need any extraneous remarks to prove it,

so, nor do I think it by any means less clear, that,
in   the existing state of society,               it   is   an       article

which has almost become a necessary of life.* The
object, however, of this Treatise,   not to point is

out the benefits which the rational use of Wine
confers on mankind, but by guarding the Public

against the pernicious adulterations which are prac-

X <Vv'*                                         *& ^                           >
      -
          ,
                               63
tised upon   it, to     prevent that, which may and ought
to be a blessing , from being converted into a curse.
                    1




That so widely diffused, and          in   such general de-
mand, as Wine is, its abuses, therefore, deserve to
be exposed, and a stop put to its being rendered
baneful, without misapplication, no one can doubt,
nor, that an individual thoroughly acquainted with
the subject,   is
                    fulfilling more   than his duty to the

community, when he holds up to public reproba-
tion, that class of persons, who, not content with
the gains which fair dealing in Wine, in its

genuine state, would yield them, seek to reap
large and disproportionate profit, by the most base
and fraudulent means, whereby they are not only
undermining the character and livelihood of the
honest Tradesman, in respect to his exacting un-

necessarily high prices, but they are also cheating
the pockets of those, who are so easily gulled, as
to put faith in their pretences.
     To discharge this, which I conceive to be a duty,
is   now my intention, and I have every expectation
that I can place sufficient, both of facts and argu-

ments, on this head, before my Readers, to convince
all those, who are too nice to drink a compound of

Red Cape, Benecarlo, Fiyuera, and Inferior Port
Wines, mixed together, under the name of genu-
                                           *




ine Old Port,' or a mixture of Cape, Brandy Cowe,
and Coarse Brown Skerry, with the colour ex-
tracted by means of Lamb's Blood, for * Fine Pale
                           1
Amontillado Sherry.
                          64
  To persons, indifferent as to what they place on
their tables for Wine, so long as the taste       some-
what resembles the denomination it bears, fact and
reasoning would be alike uselessly addressed.
   In the first place, as regards the facilities for the
adulteration of Wine, they are, with little differ-

ence,  possessed as equally by the Wholesale
Dealers, as by the Gin-shop cheap Wine venders,
unless where the retail consumption of the latter,
or what they sell in glasses,   is   so large, as to give

them, in this respect, a great advantage. The
Wholesale Wine Merchant's License, enables him
to dispose of   Wine in quantities, as small as a
single bottle, and does not enforce his drawing a
permit, but for quantities amounting to more than
one dozen, the additional opportunity, therefore,
which the Gin-shop-keepers have, and which must
account for their forming the majority amongst
our Placarders and Advertisers of cheap Wine,
arisesfrom what they      retail by the glass, or in
measures less than a      bottle, but which conse-

quently, can only be of any very great benefit,
where much is sold in that way. In other respects,
he is subject to precisely the same regulations, as
to drawing a permit, &c. as the Wholesale Dealer.
  It may, however, be
                        proper to remark here, that
although upon the whole, both classes are open to
facilities, almost as available to the one as the

other, yet, comparatively, but little chance of adul-

terating their goods, exists, with those who carry
                                 65

on a fair business, even if inclined to do so, as the
Advertising and Placarding Gin-shop-keepers, and
Wholesale Dealers, by their wonderfully cheap
prices and pompous assertions, are sure to attract
that description of persons as purchasers, who
form the principal means of enabling them to adul-
terate with the least possible risk of detection, that
is   to say, such as       buy only small quantities at a
time, and with whom quality is quite a secondary
consideration, so long as the price is low.
     With respect to the measures adopted to evade
discovery from the Excise Officers, the evidence in
the trial alluded to, at the commencement of this
Treatise,* will best explain              some of the artifices

         *   From the Times Journal of December 1, 1826.
In the Court of Exchequer, November 30, 1826.              The Attorney-
                       General versus Oldfield.
     The information consisted of four counts, the first for procuring
a permit, under pretence of transferring a certain quantity of Wine
to a Mr. Buckby it would appear by the evidence, that Mr.
 Buckby was not the purchaser of any such quantity of Wine, and
 that the permit had not been returned to the Excise Office.
     The second count was of a similar nature in this, the supposed
                                                :




 purchaser was Mrs. Oldfield, the mother of the defendant.
     The third count arose out of the preceding ones   :    it
                                                                 complained
 of these permits not being returned to the Excise Office.
     The fourth count alleged the adulteration of certain Wines, the
 mixing of Cape with Sherry/ and        selling the   mixture as pure

 Sherry.
     The first witnesses which the Attorney-General called, were
 several persons, connected with the Excise,who proved that two
 permits, in the names of Buckby and Mrs. Oldfield, were obtained,
 and never returned to the Excise Office.
     Mr. Buckby, examined by the Attorney-General.           He (Mr. B.)
                                   66

employed.         On   referring to the note containing
the abstract of this trial,         it   will be seen, that, al-

though the flavoring and mixing of Cape Wine
with a portion of Shorry, to make the mixture sell
for genuine Sherry, was not brought                   home to the


knew the defendant Oldfield had frequently bought small quan-
                               ;


tities of Wine of him, but never, at any one time, so large a quan-

tity as to require
                   a permit.  He never bought, altogether, so much
Wine of him as 288 gallons. He never saw the permit for 288
gallons of Wine, purporting to have
                                       been bought by him of the
defendant.
  Mr. Tooke, examined by the Attorney-General. He (Tooke)
knew the defendant; these permits were obtained with the know-
ledge of the defendant, and for the purpose of accounting, for
the disappearance of a large quantity of Cape Wine, which was
mixed with Sherry, and sold under the name of the latter. It
was not sufficient to mix Cape and Sherry alone; any one would
detect the imposture.    The mixture thus formed,       must be doc-
tored, before it could be made to pass for Sherry.      The mode of
doctoring, was by mixing with the Wine, a composition,      made of
Bitter and  Sweet Almonds, Powdered Oyster Shells, and Chalk;
the Bitter  Almonds gave the Wine a rough taste, which the
Sweet Almonds, in some degree, softened; the Powdered O \ster
Shells, and Chalk, refined the mixture. There was a large vat,
in   which the mixture was made.        The vat was erected for tiiis
purpose; the mixture and doctoring were both made with the de-
fendant's knowledge and approbation. Oldfield was then in the

King's Bench Prison; witness had frequent conversations with the
defendant, in prison, and carried him samples of the Wine thus
mixed ; the ingredients for doctoring the Wine were bought by wit-
ness ; the bills then produced in court, were tire druggist's bills
for the same ; witness was remunerated for these ingredients, by

Porter, Oldfield's clerk.   The defendant, Oldfield, carried on the
business of a   Wie Merchant, under the name of the Westminster
Wine Company. There were two mixtures of this Wine made in
June 1823. Oldfield went to prison in February 1822. There were
                                      67
defendant Oldfield, yet, the drawing a fictitious

permit, in order to account for the disproportionate
decrease, which would be occasioned in his Cape


mixtures of (his nature before Oldfield went to prison ; Oldfield
assisted at these mixtures before he went to prison.
                                                     Cape Wine
was worth about 1*. 6d. per bottle, Sherry 3s. 6d.
  The following witnesses were called for the defence         :



  William Porter, examined by Mr. Lawes. Was requested by
Tooke, to write the request note for Buckby's permit; never saw
OldfielA mix wines.
  The same witness         examined by the Attorney-General.            He
was a clerk, and kept the accounts; never paid Tooke for Almonds
and Oyster Shells; did pay him         for a bottle of stuff called flavor,

which he afterwards heard contained such things; the flavor was
put into the Wine.
   By Mr. Baron Garrow. Recollects Wine being transferred to
Mrs. Oldfield, but could not tell how much.      He charged Mr.
Oldfield with the flavor for which he had paid Tooke; entered in
the cash book so much paid for flavor.

   George Bedell, Samuel Mole, and James Garven, servants of
Oldfield, were called, and swore that they never saw any mixing
of Wines going on.
  The Attorney-General replied, and in the course of his observa-
tions,    said   he would not press   for the penalties for   not returning
the permit.       The Jury then retired for about a quarter of an hour,
and, upon their coming into court again, returned a verdict for the
crown, on one permit          that of Mr. Buckby's.
  In this note    contained the whole of the trial, as it appeared
                    is

in the ' Times,' with the omission of the
                                          speeches of the counsel,
and the charge of Judge Garrow to the Jury ; likewise an examina-
tion-of Tooke,      not for the purpose of controverting his statement
of facts, but     to weaken   his evidence by lowering his moral cha-
racter.
   Had the Jury found Oldfield guilty on all the counts, the first
and second would have subjected him to a fine of 500/. each ; the
third count, consisting of two offences, for not returning the per-
mits 100/. each ; and the fourth count, for mixing the Wines, 300/.
                          68

Wine, was      clearly established to his conviction.
The way in which he had obtained room in his
Sherry, to admit so much Cape Wine, without an
increase appearing,     must have been by       his not

drawing     permits for the quantities of Sherry, or
any other White Wines (not being French or
Cape) which he had occasion to send out, between
the period at which the Excise Officer had sur-

veyed his stock, and the time when the mixing
took place, together with the assistance afforded
him, as being an advertiser, by the quantities he
had sold under one dozen.
      That this system of adulteration had been fre-
quently practised    before, appeared also on the

trial; and it
              may readily be inferred therefrom, (not
to mention     any thing of the extent to which it   is

carried, by others, through the medium of vats, much
more capacious in size than those used by Oldfield,)
that the profits are sufficiently adequate to occasion
the risk of a casual detection, and penalty, of no

very great consequence, particularly, as there are
several ways    known to the skilful, of preventing
itspublicity ; or should any doubt exist, on that
which I have thus advanced, a further insight into
the subject, will, I think, easily remove it.

      may, perhaps, be said, that to allow of any
      It

opportunity for carrying on the mixing of Wines,
(or at all events in such large quantities as by the
defendant Oldfield,) the exposure is too certain,
and the temptation of receiving half the penalty,
                         69
attached to the offence, too strong for the persons,
who are ordinarily employed where such practises
are carried on, to withstand, without paying them
most exorbitant wages to purchase their secresy.
If my present limits would permit, I could detail

many plans by which these difficulties are to be
surmounted.    The singular fact, however, that the
detection of this nefarious traffic was owing en-

tirely to the disclosures of an accomplice, who was

influenced by mo fives of revenge, and that the three
men, besides the clerk, employed in the business, and
on the premises, by Oldfield, swore in the course of
the trial, that they had never seen   any mixing of
Wine whatever, going on, (although the fact had
then been clearly established in the preliminary

step to adulteration, of which he was convicted,)
will,   apprehend, be conclusive enough as to
        I

there being no lack of means, in respect to the

findingof opportunities for adulterating, with-
out my perplexing my Readers with technical
statements.
  In proceeding to give an account of the various
modes of adulterating Wine, and as a reason for
my rendering the proportions in the illustrative ex-
amples, relating to this part of the subject, on so
large a scale, it is perhaps requisite to premise,
that one of the grand secrets in the art of cheapen-

ing Wine,   is
               by the vatting, or keeping a number
of large vats in the which to mix and adulterate
the different Wines.
                                70
     It is an old saying,   *
                                That good Wine needs no
bush ;' but when some of the uses to which these
vats are applied, are fairly explained and under-

stood, I think it will not be less obviously trite,
'
    That good Wine needs no vat.'
     The present plan of adulterating, and particu-
larly   where the advertising concerns are large, is
by the aid of vats, which vary in their contents
from 800, to 1000, gallons each, and of which, to
describe fully the whole of the advantages derived
from them, would require much greater space, than
the limits    of      work afford.
                   this               To give my
Readers, however, some idea of their general
utility, it must be understood that they are of ex-
cellent service in enabling the cheap Wine vender
to adulterate to a greater extent, and more easily
to combine the different compositions, intended to
be introduced into them. The immense body of
Wine lying together, tends greatly to assimilate
the flavors, andmore effectually to conceal from
discovery, any extraneous matter which may be
mixed in it. The Wine, by a judicious and va-
ried selection, is made to possess a roundness of fla-

vor,    and to form a basis, as to body,    sufficient to

admit of a great deal, which costs little or nothing,
and from     their use, arises the numerous plausible

arguments which are brought forward,          to justify

the appearance of such highly questionable reser-
voirs, by those advertisers who have them in their

possession ; but the dangerous purposes, to which
                              71

they may be, and are applied, are quite sufficient
to deter every fair dealer          for the sake of
                           (if only
his credit),    from resorting to their aid, and to in-
                                   1




duce every purchaser, decidedly to discountenance
their use.

  That, inferior Wines might be improved in vats,
by being blended with good, if it was possible to
prevent even their being adulterated, there can be
but little doubt to those acquainted with the nature
of Wines in general; but, alas! no one
                                       except our
modern        adulterators   themselves,   and the very
bung-holes of their vats, are acquainted with the
nature of all the different articles of which the
latter are made the receptacles.        Brandy and Hum
Cowe, (the rinsings of the puncheons as soon as the
Spirit    taken from them,) slops of all descrip-
         is

tions, Cape Wine, Cyder, Colouring, Sal Tartar,
with any thing else, which is, or is thought to be,

capable of forming a tolerable basis, or in any
other way useful in manufacturing a resemblance
of the particular denomination of         Wine, intended
to  be sold, are occasionally          mixed together in
their capacious bodies, and discharged again as ge-
nuine Port or Sherry, according to whichever
Wine, the contents of the vat, have been made up
to represent.
     On applying to a cheap Wine vender, possessed
of such highly advantageous and necessary utensils,
the first thing of which he speaks, is the wonder-
ful extent to which his Wines,
                                although originally
                             F 2
                           72
of the finest quality, are improved by lying to-

gether in so large a body ; the next, that his sell-
ing exclusively for ready money only, enables him
to part with his Wine at so low a price, and that
it
     scarcely affords   him any   profit   at   all.       The
Wine tastes full to the palate, is of brilliant colour,
and if Port, the purchaser is assured (and with
truth, from obvious reasons which shall be shown
to   my Readers,) that it will be quite crusted in
two or three months.   These, and other like as-
surances, conclude with a gaurantee, that the
Wine is warranted to turn out as represented, and
that the cash, with all expenses, will be returned,
if it does not
               prove to do so; though, be it ob-
served, the seller cunningly manages to retain the
nine points of law in his own favour, (namely,

possession of the cashj leaving only the poor
remaining one to the purchaser, the value of
which, he may probably have to estimate to his
cost.    The many quibbles, by which this bargain
is   afterwards evaded, alone forcibly illustrates the
notorious remark once     made by an individual be-
longing to this famous class of advertisers, That
                                                       '




a customer once, forms the extent of their ex-
pectations ;' or, in other words,
                                  *
                                    That the first
application of a person to purchase Wine of
them, is by their address ; that a second visit, from
the same party, and for a similar purpose, is by

good luck !'
     From the 'flattering tale* thus told, and which
                           73
I have but imperfectly described, the result is, that
the buyer is satisfied, concludes the purchase of
the Wine for which he has been treating , and as
                                            1




nothing else will do, pays down the cash for it ;
whilst the placarder, (who has palmed on him, a

spurious article for the genuine, the quality and
flavor of which,  is, to the taste of a person ac-

quainted with the true quality of Wine, as unlike
those of the genuine article, as it is spurious in its

composition,) is all the time laughing in his sleeve,
at the credulity of a customer, who, while he
thinks he   makes a bargain, is giving an impudent
knave, a cash profit of forty per cent, only because
the prices of his goods are twenty per cent, below
those of a respectable Wine Merchant. If any doubt
still remains, and further to
                               prove the sum total
of that which I have stated, as to the excellence
and value of these vats,   as a   new contrivance for
gulling the Public, and defrauding the Revenue,
I need only refer to the placards and advertise-
ments of those who are known to have adopted the
vat system, and request my Readers to observe the
difference between the prices quoted by them, and

those, by others of their fraternity, who, although

they have the same advantages in respect to pur-
chasing, yet, having no vats, happen not to be pos-
sessed of the same valuable means, to enable them
to vend, on quite so low a scale as their more for-
tunate rivals.
  An additional method, however, which I ought
                          74
not to pass over without a few remarks, as forming
another source from whence a considerable profit
is derived, and by means of which, it will be seen

a tolerable degree of imposition can be practised,
iswith respect to the size of bottles. From my
long connexion with the Wine Trade, I have ne-
cessarily been brought in contact, and become in-
timately acquainted, with many Bottle Merchants,
from whose information, coupled with my own
judgment and experience, I can state several facts
on this head, which have a near relation to the ex-
posures I have already made. The bottles, as mea-
sured off, by the workmen employed for the pur-

pose, consist of six various sizes ; but which, as
making no real difference, still retain their titles as
applying to the old measure.      The terms by which
they are-known in the trade, are
          Full Quarts,         Small Fourteens,
          Thirteens,           Fifteens,

          Fourteens,           Sixteens,


and, in giving a Scale, showing the relative number
of bottles of each size, required to take three gal-
lons of liquid, according to the old measure, to fill

them, and setting forth the proportionate alteration,
which may be occasioned in the price per dozen,
by the use of either size in bottling a pipe of Port,
supposed to stand the Dealer in 761. with all ex-
pences, and allowing three gallons to be taken off
as bottoms, it is with the most perfect conviction
that a considerable portion of the mystery of our
                                75
advertisers vending- at such extraordinary prices,
will be explained to the satisfaction of my Readers.

                           A SCALE,
Showing the number of bottles      of either size required to take
three gallons of liquid, according to the old measure, to fill them,
and the proportionate alteration in price, occasioned by the use
of each of them, in bottling a pipe of Port of the standard quan-

tity of   138 gallons, (equivalent to 115 gallons of the new Im-
                          to cost the Dealer 761. with            ex-
perial measure), supposed                                   all

peuces included, and allowing three gallons (agreeable to the old
measure) to be deducted as the bottoms :
                                          76

Gin-shop and Wholesale cheap Wine venders, that
the Full Quarts are in more general use for Spirits,
and that the remaining sizes, with but very few
exceptions indeed, are purchased by the respect-
able Wine Merchant, the Wine Cooper, and those
of the Gin-shop-keepers, who serve, as they would
be served.
   Leaving, however, in the hands of my Readers,
the many inferences that may be drawn from this

plan of defrauding the Public, of their fair and
reasonable measure,* I will now commence as to
the adulterations of


                              PORT WINE.
   The most usual mode of adulterating this Wine,
may be said to consist, in admixing with whatever
  * In
       treating on       this subject of short measure, with regard to

bottles,   it   may not be amiss to mention a circumstance relating to
a part of the profits of many of our modern Gin-shop-keepers,
arising  from a mode they have of cheating their poor dram-
drinkers, out of their fair allowance of Gin, &c.   It bespeaks the
state of refinement, to which their ingenuity has arrived, in this re-

spect, and the fact is,
                             of itself, not a little curious.       The means by
which a certain additional profit          is   obtained,   is   technically called
                 '
in the trade         by the turn of the glass,' and may be thus explained.
                                The glasses made use of for the poor peo-
                                     to drink their
                             ple,                     Spirits from, are shaped
                             thus; the counter of the bar is covered with
                             lead,    perforated with holes, having a com-
                             munication with a 'cask.       Now as for ob-
                             vious reasons, the glasses, although scarcely

                             holding the measure when filled to the
                             brim, are seldom so filled, at least to within
                                77
different qualities and quantities of it in it's genuine

state,are required to answer the views of the

cheap Wine seller, the following articles in various
proportions, viz.
   BENECARLO,*    a strong coarse Spanish Red
Wine, known by the denomination of Spanish
Black Strap, to be purchased, including duty, at
about 38/. per pipe of 115 gallons.
   FIGUERA,* a Red Wine from the province of
Estremadura, in Portugal, of intermediate quality
between Black Strap and inferior Port, bearing a


the eighth or sixteenth of an inch, from the chance, that in all

probability as much would be spilled, and run into the cask
placed to receive it; a quantity equal to the portion contained in
three quarters of an inch or more, at the bottoms of what are
termed their half-quartern glasses, is thus saved to the seller, and
an extra profit reckoned at about seven and a half, per cent, de-
rived therefrom,   amounting to not a very inconsiderable sum of
money, even where there is only a tolerable consumption.
  * It will be       to           that no restriction exists as   to
               proper     remark,
mixing one Red Wine with another, providing they both pay the
same rate of duty, or one White Wine with another, under a
similar proviso; but White   Wines cannot legally be mixed with
Red, nor can any Wines, whatever, be put together, unless under
the circumstance of their duties being equal.    Benecarlo and

Fignera Wines, pay the same duty as Port, and the fact of an
enormous quantity being used of them, and of their being applied
to the purposes I have described, and no other, could be fully
proved, by a return from the London Dock Company of the
                                                          im-
mense number of pipes of both Wines, which, as is notorious to all
of the trade, are yearly imported into, and cleared from thence, to
the premises of our cheap sellers, although we never see them
mentioned in any of their placards or advertisements, under the
denomination which thev bear.
                          78
nearer resemblance to the latter, and generally to
be bought at 45/. per pipe of 115 gallons, duty in-
cluded.
     RED CAPE, which, from its low rate of duty,
may be had, including that charge, for about 32/.
per pipe of 91 gallons, consequently, forming a
profitable ingredient.
     MOUNTAIN, a small quantity, if required, to
soften and give an appearance of richness.
     SAL. TARTAR, a portion to occasion the com-

pound, when bottled, to crust firm and soon, dis-
solved with a proportionate quantity of
     GUM DRAGON, to impart a fullness of flavor
and consistency of body ; and to give the whole a
face.

     BERRY-DYE,      a colouring   matter   extracted
from German Bilberries, and known under this
name. In addition to these may be introduced,
     BRANDY COWE, explained at the close of my
remarks on Brandy, and which costs nothing, in
the proportion of about three gallons to every hun-
dred gallons of made up Wine. Another ingre-
dient that may also be mentioned, is,

   CYDER, but, as this is only made use of where
a second quality of manufactured Port is required,
it
     may be unnecessary to render any other illustra-
tion than I am about to
                          give, on purpose to show
the application of this, as one of the articles used,

particularly as that which constitutes an    example
of the best and most general method of adultera-
                           79

tion, will sufficiently explain to   my Readers, the
value of our Advertiser's and Placarder's concerns.
In order, however, properly to combine the several
ingredients mentioned, so as to answer the Dealer's
purpose best, (in the variety of respects already
named,)   it
              necessary to erect a vat which will
               is

contain from 500 to 1,000 gallons.  Into this may
be racked as follows   :
                          80
   Thus then, we have eight pipes of superior Port
 Wine, made up, according to the best and most ap-
proved plan, and which stands our Advertising and
Placarding Dealers only in 50/. per pipe of 115
Imperial gallons, every expence included, and
reckoned at the very outside or should even this
                                ;



be manufactured at too high a price, to render
their profits sufficiently adequate to support that

degree of modesty for which they are so famous, a
slight variation, in the proportion of any of the in-
gredients, need only be made, to produce a con-
siderable alteration in their favour.

  By a very simple calculation it will also be
shown, that the Wine thus made up, if drawn off
in bottles of the size of sixteen to the three gallons,
old measure, and adding a charge of Qd. per dozen

extra, for corks,  would cost only 16*. 9d. per
dozen if in the size of bottles termed fifteens, \7s.
9d. per dozen and the mystery, therefore, of their
               ;



advertising genuine Port Wines at 23*. Qd. and
24*. per dozen, and in pipes, hogsheads, and quarter

casks, at the rate of 63/. and 651. per pipe, is at
once explained. Should, however, any further
confirmation be still required, the following Scale,

showing the cost per dozen, to the Advertising
Dealer, of Port Wines in the London Docks, duty
paid, and reckoned from such as are scarcely
drinkable, to those of the finest quality, if cleared
home and drawn off in one of the smaller size of
bottles in use, (\\z.Jifteens,) must clearly convince
                                  81

my Readers, that no other than this adulterating;
system is practised, particularly as nothing- is cal-
culated in the Scale, about to be submitted, for
the expences of
                advertising, placarding , and dis-
                                                     1




tributing printed bills, and independently of the
fact, that the lowest quality of Wines in dock, are

by no means saleable to the Public, until they have
undergone a course of doctoring, &c. in the large
Wine vats, to say nothing of the facilities which
certain Dealer's possess of doing so.



                               A SCALE,

Showing the cost price, per dozen, of Wines in dock, from such as
are scarcely drinkable, to those of the finest qualities, if cleared
home and bottled in fifteens, (three gallons, according to the old
measure, to be      deducted   from each pipe of 138 gallons, old
standard, equal    to   115 gallons new. as bottoms,) the value of
each cask supposed to pay the expences of clearing from the docks,
and cartage, sixpence per dozen being added for charge of corks,
and fivepence per dozen more, for expences of bottling, laths, saw-
dust, &c.



   Cost prices    per
                           82

    Leaving rny Readers, however, to decide after
 inspecting- this Scale, whether a profit of Is. 3d. or
 1*. 9d. per dozen,
                      (and without reckoning the ex-
 pences of advertising, &c.) be adequate to    support
the extensive establishments, these
                                       placarding con-
cerns have become, and yet, at the same time, to
allow of   splendid fortunes, being realized, and
having proved the existence and manner of the
adulterating practices with respect to Port Wine,
which, in part facilitates the accomplishment of
that end, and sufficient, to induce every individual,

(before he is prevailed on to part with his money
for an article, adulterated to a degree, the extent
of which, but very few have any idea) ; to weigh
well the pretensions of those placarders and ad-
                        sell so much below the
vertisers, who profess to

respectable Wine Merchant, who possesses quite
as extensive a   knowledge of the market as them-
selves,    and equal means of purchasing as ad-
vantageously, I now proceed to expose the adul-
terations of


                      SHERRY.
   Since the Pale Sherries have become so much
in fashion, the operations of our adulterators, have

chiefly been confined, to making up their compo-
sitions to advertise and sell,   under this denomina-
tion.     For this purpose, the basis most generally
employed, has been the coarse highly brandied
Broivn Sherries, as they are to be purchased much
lower than the Pale, although such as are of a su-
perior kind, fetch prices altogether as much higher.
   To a portion of this low description of Brown
Sherry, is introduced Cape, Brandy Cowe, and
numerous other ingredients, in varied proportions,
according to the tastes of the different makers up,
and their experience, as to what will best assist in
deceiving the Public.  My object, however, will
be to point out, as I have done respecting Port
Wine, that which is considered, by our cheap
           most effective mode of doctoring and
sellers, the

manufacturing a fictitious resemblance of Pale
Sherry, leaving my Readers to infer therefrom,
the means which are employed to prepare or adul-
terate any other kind of Sherry, whether to be sold
as  Brown or Amber-Coloured, and also from the
illustrative Scale which I am about to submit,
                                               (al-
though only calculated as to what is supposed to
make up the best imitation of the genuine article,
and adopted but by a few of our more knowing Ad-
vertising Dealers,) to form some slight estimate of
the profitable nature, and general character, of the
concerns at which such mixtures are vended.
     Pale Sherries, in general, as possessing scarcely

any body, being less prominent in point of flavor than
the Brown, or as they are commonly termed, being

light delicate Wines, on which accounts they are
usually preferred to the darker Wines of the same
name, allow perhaps of a greater extent of adul-
teration than almost any other Wine whatever, and
                                  84

a ready sale for them,     aided in no trifling de-
                                 is

                               so much depending
gree, 'by the circumstance of
on pleasing the eye as to colour, than with respect
to which (and paleness of colour, in                  particular),
nothing   more easy to accomplish, in fictitious,
             is

and manufactured White Wines.
      To the requisite proportion of coarse Brown
Sherry, which may be purchased at about 60/. per
butt, of 108 Imperial gallons, the articles made use
     what is considered the best mode of making
of, in

up a resemblance of Pale Sherry, or where the
number of spurious ingredients employed for the
purpose, are fewest, and in the smallest proportions,
consist of the following, in relative qualities

   CAPE, (to be bought, including duty, for about
221. per pipe of        91 gallons,) previously fined, and
racked bright from the lees.
   BRANDY COWE, which costs nothing, but is
useful in lessening the body of the mixture, so as to
                              of being a light-bodied Wine.
give it the appearance
   EXTRACT OF ALMOND CAKE,* (used also in

  *   On reference to the trial of Oldfield, it will be seen that the
composition applied by him to impart the proper flavor to his adul-
terated Wine, was formed of a mixture of Sweet and Bitter Al-

monds, with Powdered Oyster Shells and Chalk, the two latter in-
gredients being added, to bind and concentrate the whole.       By
those, however, of our advertisers, who, are even more knowing than
Mr. Oldfield, the Extract of Almond Cake is usually preferred, as
not having so great a tendency to alter the face of the Wine, or
render it less transparent, and also as it is supposed to
                                                          impart a
more delicate flavor.
                                      85

the adulteration of Brandy), to impart a nutty
flavor.

   CHERRY-LAUREL WATER, a small quantity,
                                             of
generally in order to check the predominence
the Almond Cake, and to give     a roundness of

flavor; or, if it be Brown Sherry that is to be adul-
terated, or manufactured, to enable the vender to
sell it as such,

   GUM BENZOIN* is often made use of, in the
place of Extract of Almond Cake, as
                                      it causes the


mixture, to bear a nearer resemblance to the par-
ticular flavor, possessed by the Brown Sherry, as

distinguished from the Pale if, however, the com-
                                                :




position be intended for Pale Sherry, it is supposed
to be completed, after the several ingredients (with
the exception of the latter), have been well rum-

maged together with the Winej and when, (in
order, to extract a sufficient portion of the colour,
to render it pale,)
   LAMB'S BLOODf has been employed with the

  * This article    is   a component part of the meridicament,               called
Friar's Balsam;     it is   used in the manufacture of
                                                              Spurious Arrack,
as well as for the purpose I have here pointed out.

  f The properties of this article, will almost exceed belief:
The chemical decomposition of colour, which it occasions in the
Wine, which receives         its   aid,   is   so extremely
                                                              rapid, that,
                                                                             in the

course of five or six hours, the Wine becomes completely changed,
from brown, to pale ; and, such is the power it possesses, that,
comparatively, only, a very slight increase, in the quantity of it
usually employed to manufacture Pale Sherry, is required to reduce
a dark brown Wine, to the colour of tinged water.     By a few of
our Adulterators,     Skimmed Milk, has been employed, to answer
                                          G
linings. This is done in the proportion of three
pints of blood, to every Jhundred gallons of the

compound,           if   it   is   to   appear distinctly as Pale
Sherry ; but if it is only meant to pass for Amber-
coloured Sherry, one pint and a half, of this de-
lectable ingredient, is enough. The whole mixture,

however, after lying ten days or so, is bottled off,
or racked into quarter casks, &sc. and is then con-
sidered       fit   to be advertised,        and sold as genuine
Sherry, under whichever character, as to colour,
it has been made to              Another article
                     represent.
sometimes introduced, and supposed to be a capital
material to assist in the manufacture of fictitious

Sherry, on the best system to deceive the Public, is,
  BRITISH RAISIN WINE ; but as my informa-
tion    is   not so conclusive as to this being           much in
use,    any further than with a very few, even of
those who are considered the cleverest adepts ; for
the sake of accuracy in detail, I have not included
it,      Example, I am about to submit.
      in the
  For the purpose of mingling, and intimately
combining, in the most effectual manner, the dif-
ferent ingredients, for the making                 up of spurious
Pale Sherry, which I have thus placed before my
Readers ; the erection of a vat, or vats, is not less
necessary and advantageous, than for the fabrica-
tion of Port; independently of Sherry, being a


the same purpose as Lamb's Blood, but its effect lias been   found to
be so very deficient in several respects, that, I believe, its use, is
now entirely superseded by the latter more valuable ingredient.
                                87

Wine, almost as much in demand as the latter, and
therefore, required       be made up in quantities
                           to

nearly, if not quite, as large. Thus, into a vat con-
taining from 800 to 1000 gallons, may be racked
as follows  (the pipes of Cape mentioned in the
             :




Scale, having been previously fined and    drawn off
bright from the bottoms ; for which expence an al-
lowance is made in the cost price.)




3 Pipes of Cape (quite
    clear from the lees)
                       .


4 Butts of Coarse Brown
                                 88
butts of 108 gallons each, of a most delightful mix-

ture, which costs only 48/. per butt, at                   the very
outside ; the expences being much more than paid
in the value of the casks,            (5/. 6s.)
                                                   which has not
before been taken into consideration, or deducted
from the total amount, to lessen the cost per butt ;
and                  few days after the finings
        in the course of a

and Lamb's Blood have been put in, it is ready to
be advertised as         *
                             Fine Pale Sherry of peculiar
delicacy and flavor!'            If bottled in 'fifteens? and
(id.per dozen, be added for charge of corks, the
cost price, per dozen, would be 18s. 2%d. if in the
size of bottles       termed * sixteens,' 16*.           \.\\d.      per
dozen.       As stated by our different advertisers and
placarders, the prices for sale are 24s. ; 25*. (yd. ;
27*. ; 28*. Qd. ; and 30*.* per dozen ; and, without

dwelling on the variety of inferences that may be
drawn from this point, the following Scale, show-
ing the cost prices, per dozen, of genuine Sherries,
both Pale and Brown, in dock, duty paid, from the
lowest qualities to the highe&t, and although pur-
chased in the cheapest manner, if cleared home


  *    It should be observed, that another mode these worthies      have
of increasing their profits, is by selling the same Wine; which is ad-
verlised at so low a rate, for that for which a higher price is
                                                                  quoted,
thus, in applying for a quantity of Wine at 30*. per dozen, you are

supplied with identically the same Wine as is advertised, and sold,
at 24*. per dozen.   If yon apply for some, the price of which is
stated as at 36*. or 42*. per dozen, you are served from that,
which is occasionally sold as of tempting quality, at 30*. per
dozen, and so on through their whole scale of prices.
and bottled    in   'fifteens,   (6d. per dozen being
reckoned for corks, and 5d. per dozen more for ex-
pences of bottling", laths, saw-dust, &c. the value
of each cask supposed to pay for cartage and

clearing from docks,) will, T apprehend, as fully
establish the fact, as to the universal existence of

the adulterations, practised with this Wine, amongst
our cheap    sellers,as a similar Scale has already

proved their     existence in Port Wine.      With
respect to both instances, nothing can be more
barefaced and glaring, because it will be seen, that
the cost, per dozen, even of the lowest qualities of
the genuine Wines, and of such as are at all drink-
able, are, much too high to permit them to be ad-
vertised,   and sold, at the prices, at which they are
offered : still less, that such prices should enable the
venders to support the numerous charges and ex-

pences, to which the nature of their traffic, unavoid-
ably subjects them.
                                90




                            A SCALE,
Showing the cost prices, per dozen, of genuine Pale and Brown
Sherries, from the very lowest qualities and prices of such, as are
nt all drinkable to those of the highest description, if cleared home
and bottled in 'fifteens' Each butt is supposed to contain the
new standard quantity of 108 Imperial gallons; equivalent to 130
gallons of ihe old standard measure.    Two gallons and four fifths,
according to the latter measure, deducted in the calculation, as the
bottoms; sixpence per dozen reckoned extra for corks; fivepence
per dozen more, for expences of bottling, lalhs, saw-dust, &c. ;
and the value of each cask, to     for cartage and clearing from
                                 pay
docks.


    Cost   prices per
                              91

    Having thus, I think, effectually proved by mi-
            1




 nute explanations and calculations, the truth of my
assertions, as to the adulterations practised        by the
majority of our advertisers and placarders, with
the two leading articles of Wine, viz. Port and

Sherry, it may not be necessary, any further than
in a general way, to go through the minutiae, of the

same practises, with regard to other Wines; as
similar facts and arguments, will exactly apply to

them, as well, whether it be, with respect to the
circumstance of their being adulterated, or to the

convincing testimony which the following affords          :



*
 That even the lowest, and scarcely drinkable,
quality   of    Wines,     must stand    our    advertising
gentlemen       in   prices too high,   to   allow of their

being retailed in quantities of a few gallons, or
dozens, and in a genuine state, at the terms quoted
in their placards and advertisements,' except where

the impositions carried into effect, is by substi-

tuting one      Wine for another, which can only be
done, where the character and flavor of each re-
sembles the other; and even then, it is only
adopted where there is sufficient difference in cost,
to render it worth the while of the Advertising
Dealer.   At the head, therefore, of the remaining
Wines, which it is my intention to notice under
their respective titles, but in a general way, I shall

commence with,
                         92


            EAST INDIA MADEIRA.
   The character and description of this Wine, as
considered the best, and bearing the highest price
in the market, is, that
                         possessed of the greatest
richness and flavor, without any of that apparent

tendency to acidity and want of body, by which
the lower qualities of it are distinguished. The
most approved of the West India Madeira Wines,
though seldom purchased at so high a            price, in
many instances, rank, in point of quality, before
those, which belong to the inferior class of East
India Madeiras, and one of the frauds, therefore,
committed on the Public, through the medium of
the extraordinary cheap prices \ve daily see ad-
vertised, is, by the substitution and sale of the ar-
ticle of West India Maderia, for the finest quality
of the one, on which I am now treating.
   The method whereby the adulteration, or rather
the manufacture of a spurious imitation, of East
India Madeira is performed, is, by admixing a

portion of the genuine Wine, with a quantity of
Vidonia, or Direct Madeira, and East India Cape ;
fined,   and racked bright from the lees   ;
                                               the latter,

though bearing a much higher price, than Cape,
which has not had the benefit of a voyage, from
the Cape of Good     Hope to the East Indies, and
thence back to London, forming a valuable in-
gredient, to assist in lowering the cost, so as to
enable the advertiser, to placard the composition,
                                   93

(which, however, bears no kind of relation, either
in costliness or quality, to the genuine
                                                    article), as
*
 Fine Old East India Madeira, at unprecedented
cheap prices, for ready money only.' \Vith re-
spect to

             WEST INDIA MADEIRA,
Which ranks next to the article on which I have
                if intended to be made
just remarked ;                         up, so as to
partake of the least adulteration, and to be, as our
          sellers term
                               '
cheap                    it,       of capital quality,' the fol-

lowing is the mode in which it is treated to a            :




portion of good West India Madeira, is added a
quantity of Old Thin Direct Madeira, which
would otherwise be unsaleable, and to which, if too
nearly approaching to acidity, a few ounces of
Carbonate of Soda is applied, in order to rid it
of that quality, and render it more fit for use.
After being well rummaged together in the cask
or vat, if it be thought by the maker up, too poor,
a small quantity of Mountain, is introduced to en-
rich it.   The whole, however, when thus mixed
up, on   the plan to answer the views of the most
conscientious of our advertisers, constitutes the ar-
ticle, sold    under the title of         *
                                              Fine Old Soft-fla-
vored West India Madeira? at prices, which leave
a profit, of, at least twenty-five
                                  per cent, although if
    genuine, it would cost an equal per centage more.
    The Wine, to which I have now to proceed, as pos-
    sessing the next relation in point of character, is
                                  94




Commonly distinguished by the name of,                 Direct

Madeira; on account of its being shipped direct
from the Island of Madeira to this country, with-
out the benefit of a voyage, to the West or East
Indies.       A very little, however, that is sold by
our cheap advertisers and placarders as Madeira,

possesses any part of it, in the composition, which
they dispose of under its title.   The best manu-
facture      of a fictitious      resemblance of the real
Wine, is said to consist, of a combination of cheap
Vidonia, with a proportion of about one twentieth
part of common dry Port, one tenth part Moun-
tain, and about a fifth part Cape, the whole being
mixed together.         This compound, when properly
fined,   is considered excellent ;     and, with that modest
assurance, which distinguishes the whole tribe of
                                              c
advertisers, is sold under the denomination of Old
London Particular? or, any other appellation, by
         '


which        they   choose   to    designate   it,   with the

greatest success ; which is aided, in no trifling de-
gree, by the curious circumstance, of their prices
being twenty per cent, less, and their profits ten
per cent, greater, than the more scrupulous Wine
Merchant, who does not attempt to adulterate.              It
will be necessary only shortly to notice the


                    VIDONIA WINES,
As they are termed, which              are brought from the
                              95
Island of Teneriffe ; and are sometimes called by
the latter title, because, the only difference which
exists    between their adulteration and that of Di-
rect Madeira, (both        Wines, when genuine, greatly
resembling each other,) is merely the addition of
a portion of Cyder, or British made Wine ; if the
former be used,      all
                        tendency to an acid taste, is to
be taken from it      by means of Carbonate of Soda;
and all chance of its retaining any fixed air, or ef-
fervescent quality, by the application of one gal-
lon, of strong Neutral-flavored Rum, to every

twenty gallons of Cyder. Thus, in making up a
cask, or vat, of this Vidonia Wine, add, as with
Madeira, one twentieth part of Common Dry Port,
one tenth part Mountain, one tenth part old Cyder,
(after being prepared, as described)             and about a
fourth part Cape, to the relative proportion of in-
ferior Teneriffe Wine; and, according to the

opinions of our advertisers, after      it       is   lined,   we
have a most excellent sample of the          '
                                                 Old Vidonia
Wines,' ready for sale, on the most inviting terms,
as to character and cheapness.


                      BUCELLAS.
  Previously to      my speaking of the adulterations
of this   W   ine, I would make one remark as to an im-

position, very generally practised, in order to avoid
the trouble of making up a composition, and also to
advertise the articles, as of the choicest quality.
This is by the substitution and sale of Thin Dry
                            96

Lisbon, a quantity of which, during the last season,

(in    consequence of there not being a sufficient
supply of inferior Bucellas, to meet the demands
of those who required a second description), was,
I understand,    made up to bear some likeness to
the genuine Bucellas, and in some instances, the
better qualities of it were actually shipped as such.
The method of manufacturing a second-rate qua-
lity   of spurious Bucellas, to the Dry Lisbon I have

just mentioned, so as to pass for the genuine ar-
ticle, is, by the admixture of Cape Bucellas;            (a
Wine, which bears some resemblance,           in   point of
character, but which still retains the earthy flavor

by which all Cape Wines are so well known) a
portion ofThin Dry Lisbon, and a quantum of
Brandy Cowe, which latter is highly serviceable in
diminishing the     body, and giving the whole a
light, delicate appearance.  This composition, with
a proportion of about one half of the genuine Wine,

produces that which is advertised, and sold, as
1
  Fine Old delicately pale Bucellas,' remarkably
cheap, for ready money only.

                          TENT.
   So little, that is disposed of, by our advertisers
 and placnrders, under this denomination, is the
foreign and genuine Tent Wine, that although
upon the whole,     in   comparison with other Wines,
but a small portion is sold   ;   yet, the impositions, of
which it is made the medium, deserve a short no-
                                     97
tice   in        this   Treatise,    more   particularly, as    the

greater part of its consumers, who are the sick and
invalid, are led to believe, (except in a very few

cases,) that it is the foreign Tent which they pur-
chase.           The           and most general imposition
                          chief,

practised,         is   the substitution and sale of British
Tent   ;
         a compound, manufactured by the Rectifiers,
and as unlike the foreign (which is from the juice
of a grape), in flavor and beneficial quality, as can
well be imagined in two things intended to re-
semble each other. By those cheap sellers, who,
may be supposed to possess a larger share of con-
science,         Cape Tent is        substituted, or the foreign
and genuine Wine occasionally disposed of, in a
mixed state only.

                              RED CAPE,
Advertised under various denominations, such as

Cape Port, Pontac, 6fc. It is but very recently
that this Wine, has                become an article of sale, in
the   placards, and advertisements, of our cheap
sellers, and the object of its being introduced

there,      is   not a little obvious, to all acquainted with
what are termed the secrets of the trade                ;   particu-
larly, as no extraordinary low prices are            quoted for it,
(except in a very few instances), nor is it in any way
made a leading article, as is the case occasionally,
with Cape Madeira and                                   The adul-
                                      Cape Sherry.
teration of         it,    when required,   is
                                                 performed by the
admixture of that proportion of Cyder, and the
                            98

colouring matter called JBerry-dye, necessary, to
answer the extent, to which the placarder wishes
to reduce the cost price. The chief end, however,
in view, in advertising it for sale, is, in order to
give as plausible a face to the possession of it as
possible, so that when the adulterator, uses it in his
Port Wine, in which a requisite decrease has previ-

ously been obtained, the disappearance of a nearly
similar quantity of Red Cape, to occupy the place of
that decrease, may not have any singular or suspi-
cious appearance; which would be the case, did he
not give some reason, (by placarding or advertising

it,)
       to suppose that a similar quantity might have
been sold.  With those of our advertisers and pla-
carders, who are Gin-shop-keepers, the facilities for
thus imposing on the Excise Officers, are very great,
as they are able to avail themselves of the interpre-

tation, to which they are always open, of having
disposed of some considerable quantity over their
counters, without having been under the necessity
of drawing any permit, which would expose them
to a greater risk of detection.



  CAPE MADEIRA, and CAPE SHERRY.
     Singular as   it
                        may appear,   that Wines,   the
better qualities of which are sufficiently indifferent,
when in a genuine state, and of themselves, should
be made a source of profitable imposition, through
the medium of adulteration, it is not less the fact,
                               99
that     few Wines are deteriorated to a greater ex-
tent than the         Cape Wines on which I am now
treating
           1
               .   With regard to the distinction which is
made in their denominations, those termed Cape
Sherries, are selected more immediately from the
Wines, which, in point of flavor, bear the greatest
resemblance to real Sherry ; the remainder consti-
tutes what are usually entitled Cape Madeiras, and
the adulterations of each are so qualified, as                     still

to preserve the          separate characters, which have
been assigned them.
   To lay down any particular plan of adulterating
the generality of Cape White Wines, is almost im-

possible, as with them, in most cases, are blended

(as a     means of conveying away, and turning to
good account) whatever is useless or unsaleable of
other Wines ; and which practise, consequently,
renders the quality somewhat dependent on cir-
cumstances.   In order, however, to give my
readers some idea of the usual mode of adulterating
this Wine:           into a Cape vat containing            any inde-
finite    proportion of the       Wine,   is       introduced the

drippings of the cocks, from the various casks :
White Wines, of any description that may have
been spoiled by having been put into bad or musty
vessels, and the filterings of the lees of all the

different          Wines in the     cellar,    after       these    in-

gredients have accumulated for a certain length
of time, a few gallons of Brandy or Rum Cowe,

and, occasionally, Cyder, are added            :   if,   when tasted,
                               100

the mixture      is   found of a quality too indifferent to
be saleable, an additional proportion of the genuine

Cape, immediately brings             it
                                          up   to the necessary

standard   :    If it be desirable to advertise a portion

as Cape Sherry, the introduction (after such por-
tion is racked into another vessel) of a small quan-

tity   of Extract of Almond Cake^                 produces the
wished for result ;     represent a very paleWine,
                          if, to

a little LamVs Blood, mixed in with the finings, at
once enables the cheap seller to placard it, as deli-
cately Pale Cape Sherry, or Madeira, at astonish-
ingly low prices, &c. &c.   The illustration thus
afforded, of the value of          Cape Wine, whether it
be as an individual source of profit, as an admira-
ble basis      on which to adulterate other and more
expensive Wines, or as offering a ready and pro-
fitable mode, of getting rid of any thing,            which an
Advertising Dealer, may have on his premises, in
the shape of Wine, &c. which is spoiled, or other-
wise unsaleable, is so obvious, that I think it needs
no further comment.
   Having thus opened the eyes of my Readers,
to the adulterations of the major part of the Wines

(exclusive of French,) for which such low prices
are quoted by our placarders, &c. and sufficiently

so, to enable any one to draw a pretty clear in-
ference of the general nature of the practises of
those gentlemen, I will just glance at the means

adopted, to deceive the Public, with deteriorated
Claret and fictitious Champagne, as a specimen,
                             101

that even, the most costly Wines, are neither pro-
tected from the mischievous ingenuity of our cheap

sellers,    nor forgotten in their adulterating vocabu-

lary.
   Whether the importations of Cape Burgundy,
Cape Hermitage, Cape Hock, Cape Santerne, 8$c.
which frequently arrive in this country from the
Cape of Good Hope, may                constitute any basis,
from the use of which, an extra profit is derived
on the Wines, to which they are made to bear
some       slight resemblance,      I shall not pretend to

say ; a view of the  means employed to advertise
cheap Claret,  and  more   particularly cheap Cham-
pagne, will, 1 doubt not, fully answer the purposes
of this Treatise with respect to French Wines.


                          CLARET.
   The adulterations of this Wine, as carried on, in
the cellars of our placarders and advertisers,         may
be summed up in few words a small quantum of
                                      ;


Spanish Red Wine, and a portion of Rough Cyder,
(the latter,
                I   am informed, being an article not un-
frequently applied in the making up of cheap
Clarets abroad,) is introduced into a cask contain-

ing inferior Claret, a colour being previously added
to the Cyder, by means of Berry-dye, or Tincture
 of Brazil Wood, the difference in duty and cost

 price, and a little management in the apportioning
 what is used of the Spanish Red Wine and Cyder,
 at once enabling the cheap sellers, to reduce the
                               ti
                              102

prices on their placards to what scale soever they
please.      They have, besides, this circumstance in
their favour, that, although they may occasionally
advertise Clarets in the London Docks, on as low,
or perhaps lower terms, with regard to price, than
that which they manufacture, (the means of doing
which it     is    also   my intention to lay before my
Readers,) the latter is        much better, as possessing
apparently greater body,          less   chance of turning
sour,   and being altogether of a more saleable na-
ture, and though by no means approaching even to
the middling qualities of genuine Claret, they are
able to advertise it, as of an exceedingly fine de-

scription.        Since the reduction of the duties, the
avidity with which our English cheap sellers, have
laid holdon any article of Wine that afforded
them the least chance of imposing on the Public,
has given rise to a most cordial co-operation on
the part of several French Dealers in the same
honest design, in order to facilitate the sale of
manufactured French Wines, and which it is evi-
dent (from the bare-faced assurance with which

they are puffed off, and from the want of a caution
against the serious effects of this coalition) has
fully answered the purposes of both parties, par-

ticularly as the profits attached to this kind of bu-
siness, (notwithstanding the prices are quoted at
so low a rate,) it will be seen, are tolerably remu-

nerating.
  It will,    no doubt, excite some surprise, when it
                                           103

ismentioned as a fact, which can be supported by (



the testimony of some of our first-rate importers
and French Wine growers, that the cost to the
manufacturers, of the inferior Clarets thus shippedy
is      more {at the outside), than two sous per
      not
bottle ; that the charge from them to our English

cheap        sellers,    is at       about ten or twelve sous per
bottle, equivalent to 5s. or (>s. sterling per dozen ;
that the expences of bottles, case, and freightage,
do not exceed 4*. Qd. per dozen more ; and the
duty and other charges, at the utmost calculation,
19s. per dozen.  Thus, supposing a case of this
Wine to cost as follows                    :



                                                                 L.   s.   d.
      3 dozen prime Claret, at 5s. 6d.                   -       0160
        Expense of bottles, case, freightage, &c. at
             4s. 6d.                                                  13   6
        Duty on 3 dozen, and Landing Charges, &c.
             at 19s.             -     .                         2    17

One 3       doz.   Case of prime Claret, at 29s. per
             dozen, is                                           470
The means by which they are enabled to advertise
it at the low prices we see, and the extent of pro-

fit   derived from this reputable branch of the cheap
seller's business,        may be at once estimated           ;
                                                                 whilst a
short insight into the mode of its manufacture, will

clearly prove that the                     French adulterators are by
no means less deficient in the art of imposition, (al-
                                               or two
    O their efforts are confined but to one
though
articles of Wine), than their brethren, the English

adulterators.
                                           H 2
      The Wine, (if it can be so called) which is now
brought over to the London Docks, advertised at
so cheap a rate,         and so conveniently situated for
re-shipment     France, should the Dealers be so
                   to

unsuccessful as not to find people foolish enough
to become purchasers, is, as I have satisfactorily as-
certained  from the best authority, which must
quite refute the silly assertions and borrowed ex-
planations, made use of in our modern cheap Wine
advertisements, nothing more, than a compound of
the refuse of various French Wines, thrown to-

gether, with a portion of French Cyder, which,
though comparatively an expensive ingredient, is
admirably adapted for the purpose of giving an ap-
pearance of body ; to this is added, as some further
qualification, a proportionate quantity -of what is
termed      '
                third quality wine,'* a description, which,

     * The class -of Wine here referred         as forming a
                                          to,                   component
part of the mixture which is    now shipped for Claret to this coun-
try by some of our advertising dealers, may in some measure be
estimated from the manner in which the manufacture of it is per.
formed in France.  At the proper season of the year, when the
grapes have arrived at maturity, they are gathered, and deposited
in large vats. The juice which is detached from them by their
own pressure, and which runs into a vessel placed          to receive    it,

constitutes the  base of that which the vintners term the 'first

quality' and is carefully secured in separate utensils, the utmost
attention being paid to its fermentation and subsequent treatment.
After this vinous liquid has drained from the vat,      till   no more can
be obtained, a number of men are employed in that vessel to tread
out the grapes which have been deposited therein, which process
is
  performed with the naked feet ! and without even the slightest
arrangement as to cleanliness    the necessity of which,        when   it is
                                          105

in the districts               where the Wines are made, was
considered so utterly worthless, even as the most

ordinary beverage amongst the lower classes, be-
fore our Placarding Dealers provided so excellent
a channel for its consumption in England, that the
sin was frequently committed of throwing large
quantities of it away, to the great pecuniary loss
of our advertisers, and the privation of the tastes
of our consumers.      The composition thus de-
                                    requisite portion of coarse
scribed, after the                                              in-

ferior Brandy, has been introduced, (to prevent it

turning sour,) and the whole of the mixture has
been properly coloured and flavoured by a prepa-

cousidered that the chief of the wines are made in the south of
France, may he better conceived than described.              The juice which
is   thus procured, produces that which is called the ' second quality
wine.'
  The third quality, which is that made use of in manufacturing
the extremely cheap Wines, now shipped to England in such vast

profusion, is derived by a retreading of the remains of the grapes,
contained in the vat, with the naked feet, and by the occasional
addition of large quantities of water, which, by washing the pulp
of the fruit,      becomes impregnated with some portion of vinosity.
This     liquid,    after being fermented, and undergoing its proper
                                '
treatment,       forms the     third quality wine' and not only assists
in manufacturing         a commodity of French Wine, to sell at a very

cheap     rate     in   this   country,   but also offers itself to     our ad-
vertisers in its genuine slate, to afford            them the means of giving
their customers the choice of a Wine at rather a higher price,               and
as of a superior quality, should such be required             in   preference to
the    lower priced Claret, which, as            I   have described above,     is

made up of various             materials, though now so modestly disposed
of,by several of our Advertising Dealers, as genuine
                                                                       '
                                                                           Vin de
Bourdeaux.
                          106

ration, which, from the acknowledged ingenuity of
French Chemists, must be considered in both re-
                                          to be
spects, elegant in the extreme, is ready
racked into casks, or drawn off into bottles, and to
be shipped to this country, accompanied with all
the instructions, &c. necessary to render the ad-
vertisements and placards, respecting it, sufficiently
attractive.    Let my Readers make a few inquiries
as I have done, of individuals     who must be inti-
mately acquainted with the growth and manufac-
ture of French Wines, and on whose veracity they
can depend, and they will find, that I have neither
made any exaggerated, or incorrect statement, of
the prices at which this excellent quality of Claret
is    to be purchased, nor of the component parts and

nature of its composition   but, on the contrary,
                             ;


that I have forborne enlarging on some facts, too

disgusting to appear on paper.

                    CHAMPAGNE.
      As is the case with several of the foreign Wines
on which I have remarked, one of the frauds com-
mitted on the Public with this costly description
of Wine, through the attraction of cheap prices,
is, by substituting another article for it, (the cost
of which is very considerably lower,) and disposing
of such, as the real Wine.

   Gooseberry Wine (which, though genuine in it-
self, and bearing, in some respects, a slight re-

semblance, yet by no means to          be   compared,
                          107

 either in cost or actual quality, to the real and
                                               ge-
 nuine Champagne,) is usually employed as the sub-
 stitute ; but, as this may   be said to form the chief

 imposition,   with regard to        the    vending cheap
 Sparkling Champagne, from the premises of the
 Dealer, my principal object, in the first place, will
 be to explain the manner in which this Gooseberry
Wine is admitted into the stocks,                even of our
largest advertising and placarding concerns, and
sold from thence as genuine Sparkling Champagne,
and afterwards proceed to expose the admirable
basis from which the Sillery and Still, together
with the Sparkling Champagnes, are puffed off to
so   great an advantage, as being in the London
Docks.     It is no very difficult matter to suppose
that   many of my Readers would have no ob-
jection, occasionally, to drink Gooseberry            Wine,
when that Wine is really fine and of good quality,
yet, very few, I imagine, with their eyes open,
would quietly submit to pay treble its value, be-
cause sold under the title and form of cheap Cham-

pagne. The disclosures, therefore, which I am
about to make with respect to it, will, I trust,
prove amusing, if not serviceable, to those who
have hitherto so easily suffered the money to be
taken out of their pockets, only to fill those of the
advertiser of cheap Wine.       It   is   well   known as a
fact, to many in the trade, that, at this time, large
parcels of Champagnes are lying in the docks, in
the names of certain individuals in London, which,
                         108

as Champagne, or in its present state, can never be

drank, and the intention with which such Wines
(which in France must have cost a mere trifle),
have been sent to this country, cannot be mistaken.
  To illustrate,    however, the object I have           in

view, with respect to the tricks practised with this
Wine, (and of which I shall give an Example on a
small Scale, for the sake of conciseness,) let      it   be

supposed that I order in France, six dozens of the
poorest Champagne I can procure, and just of suf-
ficient quality to allow of its   being admitted into
this country,   under the name      it   bears.   This    I

should be able to purchase at the rate of about
twelve francs, or 10*. per dozen, (not at all the
lowest price,) the bottles, case, and freightage,

might stand me in about 4*. 6d. or 5*. Qd. per
dozen, and the landing charges and duty, 19s. per
dozen more.     On getting it home, I immediately
draw the corks, and empty the bottles of their con-
tents into my Cape vat, and supply their places
with others, ready filled with the best Gooseberry
Wine, the corks of which, are cemented and marked
at the ends to resemble real Champagne, and which

stands me (with every expence included) in about
21*. per dozen.

  Now, as I have the dock permit to protect it,
and I do not attempt to substitute this fictitious
Wine, except between the period on which my
Excise Officer last surveyed me, and the time of
his coming again,    nor start the unsaleable Cham-
                              109

pagne until     I   have sent out sufficient of my Cape
without permit, or used enough in any of my fo-

reign Wines, to admit it, so as not to cause any in-
crease,    I   am under little danger of being dis-
covered   ;    and,   the    more    particularly,   as   for

every quantity, not exceeding one dozen, that I
send from my premises, of real Champagne,

(which is sold as of a very superior quality, and at
a higher price,) and for which quantity no permit
is
   required, I am able to receive into my stock,
in the same manner, (with
                          regard to its being un-
permitted), a like          number of bottles of this fic-
titiousWine, to all outward appearance similar to
that which is genuine, and without having any

larger proportion in stock than I have credit for,
or the trouble and additional expence (except
where a large order is to be executed) of clearing
home my bad Champagne.
   Thus, should I be enabled, frequently, to de-
rive most enormous profits, because, as the quan-
tities   which I send out of a dozen, half dozen, &c.
of my cheap Champagne (and in which quantities
it is more
           generally purchased), is of course the
Gooseberry Wine, which              I   have got into     my
warehouse, without having subjected myself to the
extra expence of the duty, freight, and cost, &c.
of the indifferent Wine which I have in the docks,
the counterfeit       Champagne, therefore, stands me
only in 21*. per do/en, (which is the total cost of
the Gooseberry Wine) and leaves me in possession
                         110

of a profit of 42*. per dozen, that being the dif-
ference between the cost price of 21*. per dozen
and one of those at which it is advertised, viz. 63*.
per dozen.  The lowest price of the middling* and
drinkable quality of Champagnes, in the London
Docks, and of the next class to that used for the
purpose I have just mentioned, is about 13 guineas
per case of six dozens, which, with the duty and
other charges, amounting to 19*. per dozen more,
renders the total cost of it, at 64*. 3d. per dozen.
How they can, therefore, advertise a Wine, as the
primest Champagne, at 60*. ; 63*. ; and 65*. per
dozen, the following Example, which applies to
any quantity, however large, though confined to
six dozens, for the sake of conciseness, will clearly
elucidate:
                                     Ill




                                 EXAMPLE.
                                     Francs        s.    d.              L.      s.   d.
6 dozens of Champagne, (in-
                                                                         300
                                                              -
  different quality)     .   .   .   at 12 or 10.             perdoz.
Expense of Bottles, Case, and



                                                              -
  Freightage of ditto   .  .
                                      say     at    5.   6               1       13
Duty on  ditto, and  Landing
  charges      ......                         --   19.                  5        14
Deduct 6 dozens of Cape,                                                10        7
  supposed to be made by



                                                              -
  this  6 dozens of bad
  Champagne being put into
  the Cape Vat        ....                    - 12.                      3       12
Add the charge of 6 dozens                                              6        15
  of   the     best   Gooseberry
  Wine,      to supply the place




                                                              - 660
  of   the     bad    Champagne
  which has been mixed with
  the Cape           .....                    --   21.

                                                                        13        1

                                                                        20
                                                              6 doz.)261(434 .6d.
                                                                     24 perdoz.
                                                                         21


                                                                             3
                                                                         12

                                                                    6)36(6
                                                                         36



               dozens of Champagne, at 43s. (id. is 13/.
                          112

   Thus, shall I have introduced six dozens of this
fictitious Wine,
                 protected by the same dock per-
mit which accompanied the indifferent Champagne
from the docks, and which places me beyond all
liability of detection from any Excise Officer.
The Wine is sparkling, and, to the generality of
its consumers,
               appears to possess all the requisite
character of real Champagne ; and, aided by that

eager confidence which is placed on the truth
of the assertions contained in my captivating pla-
cards and advertisements, I am able to dispose of
this substituted and fictitious article, the total cost

of which, at the outside,   is no   more than 43s. 6d.
per dozen, at a cash profit of 165. 6d.       if   I   ad-
vertise it at 60s. or if at 63s. per dozen, the small

remuneration of only 19s. Qd. per dozen.
  The dangerous nature and tendency of the Wine,
which is occasionally puffed off to so much advan-
tage,  by the aid of Extracts from Theoretical
Treatises on Wine, the introduction of a little of
the jargon of the numerous French agents, who
are constantly dunning the trade with their pro-
fessional disquisitions, and the never failing at-
traction of   cheap prices, requires only to be gene-
rallyknown, to put a decided stop to a system,
which conceals as great a portion of fraud and im-
position, as exists in almost   any other branch of
the adulterator's business, particularly as from the
circumstance of the Wine being:O in the London
      a
Docks, greater reliance is
                           placed on its genuine-
                           113

ness,   and the appearance of any deception is more
easily glossed over.
     The whole of the cheap Champagnes made up
in France, but more immediately the cheap Still
Champagne, may be said to be of a kind, which,
from the nature of its composition,       is,    perhaps,
more highly deleterious to the health, than any other
Wine whatever, excepting such of the cheap Spark-
ling Champagnes, as are made up on the same plan,
with regard to some of the materials that are used.
     It has been remarked by French physicians, as

they have occasionally      been called in to attend
English patients, that in most cases, the indispo-
sition of our country men, when they are in France,

can only be ascribed to the Champagne which they
drink, and which, owing to the avidity with which
the English people indulge themselves in its con-

sumption, is not only more frequently, than other-
wise, supplied to them of an indifferent kind, but
of a sort, possessing properties which have the
most pernicious and injurious tendency, possible,
to the constitution.     A little examination into the
nature of some of the ingredients, employed in the
manufacture of the cheap Still, and Sparkling
Champagnes, in France, will fully prove the truth
of their observations.
     The properties of Lead, in refining some par-
ticular descriptions of    Wines, the various quality
of    which, as compared with      that of      others,   is


widely different, (and    among which, these inferior
Champagnes may be ranked,) for rendering bright
such as have turned foul or ropy, or for preventing
the increase of any ascescent quality which a Wine

may have acquired, has been so frequently noticed
in previous publications, that, perhaps, any length-

ened discussion of its merits may be deemed super-
fluous.    In Accum's Culinary Poisons (page 95)
this   article is mentioned ; he says, The most     *




dangerous adulteration of Wine, is by some pre-
paration of Lead, which possesses the property of
stopping the progress of ascescence of Wine, and
also   of rendering        White Wine, when muddy,
transparent ;     I   have good reason to state that Lead
is   certainly employed for this purpose ; the effect
isvery rapid, and there appears to be no other
method known of rapidly recovering ropy Wines.
Lead,     in   whatever     state       it   be taken into the
stomach, occasions terrible diseases ; and Wine,
adulterated with the minutest quantity of it, be-
comes a slow           poison.'        In Watson's Chemical

Essays, (vol. 8, page 369,) it is stated, That a        '




method of adulterating Wine, with Lead, existed
at one time, so generally, in Paris, as to have be-
come      quite   a    common
                           practise/  In Medical
Essays, (vol. 2, page 80,) the consequences of the
use of this ingredient            is   related, in the case of

thirty-two persons, having severally become ill,
after drinking White Wine, that had been adul-
terated with Lead, and, also, that one of them be-
came paralytic, and another died.                In Grahame's
                             115

Treatise on Wine Making-, (page 31,) and in the
Vintner's Guide (4th edition, 1770, page 67,) the
modes and uses of its application are           fully de-
tailed.

  It    has       been only since the duties have been
lowered, that the cheap trash of Wines of all de-
scriptions, which we now see advertised to so great
an extent, has been imported, nor has it been till
since the demands of our London Adulterators
have been so great,          (owingthe competition
                                      to

amongst them for any novelty in the article of Wine,
calculated, in a cheap form, to aid them in carry-

ing    on     their   system of imposition against    the
Revenue and the Public, until their own pockets
are    filled,    and their customers satiated,) that the
vast quantities of Sparkling, and other Cham-

pagnes, which are annually spoiled in France,
from      their    turning vapid and ropy, have been
found to constitute a valuable basis, on which may
be re-manufactured an article exactly suited to the
closest     views of this most worthy class of people.
How far a composition made up, by adding to
these spoiled Wines a portion of the low Wines,
from the indifferent vineyards, or of the ' third qua-
lityWine,' which 1 have described in my remarks
on Claret, (the whole undergoing a fresh fermenta-
tion, and receiving the action of some strong chemi-
cal agent, in order to destroy the
                                   vapidity, preci-
pitate the ropiness,      and give to the whole a face,)
                             116

may be estimated as a Wine, evidently depends
only upon the skill of the advertiser, in rendering
his advertisements attractive, as this process com-

prises the manufacture of the article, of Champagne,
alluded   to,   as that which       is   offered to the Public
at so cheap a rate.       That no great art is required
to   make   this   mixture      bear        a resemblance    to

Still   Champagne, must be               pretty obvious, and I
doubt not from the following more particular re-
view, of the manner, in which the operations, I
have just partially described, are carried on in
France, quite as clear an inference will be drawn
of the ease, with which Sparkling Champagne is
revived out of that, which had been considered
useless and unwholesome.
     The whole of the vapid, ropy Wines, and such
as in any other way may have become spoiled, are

specially collected together for the purpose, by the
Wine Factor, and after selecting from them, those
which, from their condition, are capable of being
re-converted into saleable Sparkling Champagne,

they are thrown into separate reservoirs.   por-         A
tion of third quality Wine, of each kind,                 and of
the last vintage,    is   then added to refresh them ; a

partial re-fermentation        is    occasioned in that in-
tended to represent the prime                Still   Champagne,
-which renders it of a dryer character, and destroys

any latent tendency to retain fixed air, and the ap-
plication, to both, of strong chemical agents, in
order to refine, and reduce them to ti     fit   state for

bottling, at once finishes the manufacture of these
delectable mixtures.
  That one of the chemical agents, which is used if
not most carefully applied, must be highly delete-
rious, I am satisfied of, from my being already ac-

quainted with two instances, in which some indivi-
duals were made ill, and the cheap Champagne they
had been drinking, found, on analization, to contain
a portion of Lead, in its worst form ; and were the
cases, which   must frequently, in a greater, or less
degree, occur, to be made Public, by the sufferers
themselves, a most beneficial result would, proba-
bly, ensue to the community at large.
  The prices paid to the Frenchmen, for these two
descriptions of prime Champagne, is at the rate of
about eighteen francs, or 15*. per dozen, the cost
of the bottles, case, and freightage, at about 5s. 6d.
and the duty, and landing charges,19*'. per dozen

more, making  a total cost of only 39*. 6d. per
dozen.  The profits, I leave my Readers to es-
timate.
  Before, however, I conclude this Treatise, and
in order to leave no part of the ground unturned,
it
   may, perhaps, be necessary to render some ge-
neral account of the method, by which several of
our Advertising Dealers are able to placard up
other cheap Wines, in dock, because it is a scheme
which conceals      an   additional   imposture,     with
                         118
which it is expedient, that every one should be made
acquainted.    Many people imagine that, by pur-
chasing"  Wines,   (no matter of whom,) so long as
they  are  in docks, where there is no opportunity
for adulteration, they must necessarily be of   good
quality.   This is by no means the case, and I firmly
believe, several  persons have found it so to their
cost; because, it often happens, with the description
of Wines, for which such low prices are quoted,
that the quality, even of such as are made up, and
manufactured of spurious ingredients at home,        is


superior in body and taste.
  At the time the last reduction in the duties took
place,some hundreds of pipes of Wine, lying in
the London Docks, and never considered of value
sufficient, to pay the then rate of duty, viz. 64/. per

pipe, were immediately bought np by interested
individuals, for a purpose by no means difficult
to understand.     The characters of some of these
Wines, were such, as to hold out the presumption,
that if they were moved, and the lees disturbed in

them, their transit to something of the nature of
vinegar, would be extremely rapid     others con-
                                        ;



sisted of nothing more than a compound of thin

meagre flavorless Wine, with a large portion of bad
Brandy, the whole, however, to be purchased for a
very few pounds, and of parties glad to get rid of
them on any terms.   Lately, and only since the dis-
turbances have taken place in Portugal, a vast quan-
                                    119
       * of
tity          Figuera and other interior Wines have been
smuggled into Oporto, for exportation to England,
although, to prevent the illicit traffic, which this is
considered to be, by the Portuguese Government, the
utmost power had been vested in the hands of the
Royal Oporto Wine Company, and, from the mea-
sures adopted by it, the purpose had always been fully

effected, until the period when the unsettled state of
the country almost threatened the demolition of

Oporto, and suspended the jurisdiction, of a great
part of its authorities.          The principal portion of these
Figuera Wines, which were then, with some degree
of security, purloined into Oporto, and its immediate

neighbourhood, have since been shipped to this coun-
try, under Oporto bills of lading and, by means of
                                               ;


the quibble which is afforded
                                             by such a document,
they arenow offered, by dishonest English Wine
Merchants, as genuine Port Wines, although known
by them to be what they really are. The total
cost of these Figuera Wines, including the duty,
does not exceed 45/. per pipe, and the admirable
use to which they can be applied, independently of
the assistance they afford in manufacturing fic-
titious Port Wine, in stock, will presently be seen.

   A similar practise to that just described, is also
carried on with respect to cheap Sherry.         The
Malaga Wines, which are the production of a
   h
       The    total   number of pipes of these Figuera Wines, which
have been smuggled ii/to
                              Oporto, as described, in some accounts is
said to exceed 4000.

                                    I   2
                            120

 pfoce, bearing the same name, and situated some
 degrees to the east of Cadiz, and the districts*
 where the real Sherries are grown, by a little ma-
 nagement on the part of some of our Spanish Mer-
 chants, have been, and still are, shipped in no in-
 considerable quantities to this country, under
 Cadiz bills of lading, as if (as far as their article is
concerned), their efforts to impose on the British
Public, through the medium of our advertisers,
should be out-rivalled by none.
  The objects to which the whole of these precious
Wines are, and have been, applied, by our Ad-
vertising Dealers, are two-fold, the first as a cheap
article, to combine with others in their large      Wine
vats, the second, to act as decoy ducks.       Since the
law, with regard to quarter casks, has been brought
into operation,    by a representation    to the   London
Dock Company, leave can be obtained, to rack in the
docks, either one hogshead, into two quarter casks,
or, one pipe, into two hogsheads, which, therefore, if

they please, enables our cheap sellers to offer the
same enticement to different classes of buyers. It
should, however, be observed, that as decoy ducks
alone,    and not for any purpose of sale, are a great
portion of these wretched Wines intended, because,
if the advertiser, could even
                              prevail on his customers
to become purchasers, he      would be     at the loss of

two great advantages,       first, that of having
                            the
their assistance in manufacturing his vat Wine,
and secondly,     their possession as a   means of con-
                                 121

tinning a temptation, for the public to enter his re-
ceptacle.
     A person applies to a Wholesale Dealer, or a
Gin-shop-keeper, who has a Wholesale License in
addition to his Retail one, and who may have a

placard up, announcing cheap Wines to be sold in
                             1




dock, and requests an order to taste them. The
seller manages to
                  provide him also,             with an order,
or two, for    some other Wines, a little higher in
price, the consequence is, the purchaser tastes the
whole, finds a material difference, calls again on
the seller, andis either
                         persuaded to take a cask
of that, at the advanced price, or else, to be supplied
out of one of the large IVine vats, on the same
terms as stated for the lowest quality of those              in

dock, being assured that          it is   a similar description
of Wine, only improved so much, by lying in so

great a body.
  Thus, we see that whether the operations of our
placarders and advertisers, be confined to the art of
adulteration, that of displaying in their advertise-
ments to the greatest advantage, the superior qua-
lifications,they so modestly claim to themselves,
above all other dealers, in the knowledge and mode
of purchasing, and disposing of Wines and Spirits,,
in deceiving the Public with pompous offers, (the
conditions of which, however, are so framed, that

only one point of law is given to their customers,
whilst the sum of the remaining nine, viz. pos-
session of the cash,   is   retained by themselves), or
   conducting any minor impositions, in the sale
                     1

in

of their goods, the most consummate address is

displayed.
      In submitting      1

                             ,   as 1 have   done, these various
facts to the notice,                and   for the    benefit,   of
                                                                 my
Readers,       it   has by no means been             my intention to
implicate the whole of any class of Dealers, for
the delinquency of a part, nor that part, any further
than      supported              by clear and distinct evidence.
Such evidence I have afforded, nor can this, there-
fore, be said to apply to any Dealer,                   whether Re-
tail   and Wholesale, or Wholesale exclusively, who,
although, announcing the sale of Wines, yet, from
his scale of prices, may fairly be allowed the sup-

position, that though, perhaps, not of the finest
quality, they are at least unadulterated.     Neither
can it be permitted to refer to that class, known bv
the denomination of Publicans,                      individuals,     who
possess what are termed Brewer's houses, and than
whom, (speaking of the majority,) no description of
men, are so much oppressed and borne down, 1 may
say, to a degree that would almost render the
term of Brewer's slaves,* more applicable lo them,

  *  A man, who has, perhaps, saved 400/. or 5007. is persuaded
by one of the Brewer's myrmidons, specially employed for the
purpose, to take a house which may be to be let, the value of a
lease on which,  he is informed, is about 20007.   Under the pros-
pect of the great advantages represented   to him, and the induce-
ment that the Brewer will accommodate him, by advancing the re-
quisite   sum, besides what he can spare himself, to make up the
purchase money, the man is prevailed upon to take it;       first   of all,
                                    123
in their present state,             than any other, and would
almost justify, on their part, if any thing can jus-

tify,        mode of procedure, which I have
         the very
been exposing to reprobation. The contents of


however, executing a deed of assignment of the lease, to be held
by the Brewer, as security ; together with a bond in judgment, on
the whole of his furniture,  and other properly, as another gua-
rantee for a large additional sum, for which the man lias received
no value, but which is considered necessary to prevent all chance
of loss to the Brewer.
  With the little remaining money, which the poor Publican may
have    left of that,  from which he has paid for the fixtures of the
house,    and- as deposit for the lease, he lias to defray the whole of
the expenses of drawing up the lease, bond, and all oilier ne-

cessary documents, and after he has paid, besides, half the charges
of the broker, for his valuation, the same proportion of the fees of
the Broad Cooper, and Guagers, &c, (servants of the Brewer)
which fees usually amount, as the incomers share, to the sum of
three or four guineas to each j and in addition to which, he is ex-

pected to be at half the expense of furnishing the. whole of the
party with a handsome dinner and plenty of Wine, he is allowed to
remain in quiet possession. If his payments do not happen to be

altogether regular      in
                     amount,  the Broad Cooper, or some other
servant of the Brewer, enters the house, without any notice, de-
mands the key of the cellar, and proceeds to take an account of
                                       if he has
his stock of beer, in order to ascertain         paid according to
the quantity he has sold.   If the Brewers choose to lower the

price of their commodity, a notice is sent round to each of their
Publicans, directing them immediately to lower the prices of their
beer as well, no matter what stock they may have on hand at the
time, and     woe be to him, that hesitates to do so.             If the con-

sumption of beer happens to fall off, without reference to what the
cause may be, or however deserving the man, a representation is
made to the Brewer and        his   partners,   in   full   committee, by the
 managing clerk,     (whose favour, be it remarked, is of the utmost
consequence,      and his own individual importance not less so),
                                    124

this      Treatise can
                   only point to the cheap Ad-
vertisers and Placarders of Wines and Spirits,

who, by plausible assertions, and high-sounding
                                                                              1




pretensions, (as empty as they are pompous,) en-

orders are issued, and before the        man has,    perhaps, been in the
house twelve months, (if it so happen), his goods are seized by the
warrant of attorney; his lease retained possession of by the deed
of assignment; the other creditors are cheated out of llieir just
claims, of a share in the proceeds of the estate; ami the poor man,
who has lost his all, is sent to prison, irretrievably ruined.       Whe-
ther an alteration is not required here, and by what other title, as

truly applicable, the majority of this class of Dealers can be dis-
tinguished, I leave to the judgments of my Readers.     It is quite

time, some remedy should be proposed in the House of Commons,
and in a way, in which it could be uninfluenced by the Brewers,
who are members of that house,          to diminish an evil of so gross a
nature.

  Independently, however, of the hardships which this system
enforces on the poor Publican, he is subject to others, by no

means, less severe       in their
                                  operation   as regards his interests, nor
less   unjust to   his              a member of society.
                         situation as                       One of
these hardships, in particular, it becomes necessary to make known
to the Reader, as it, in a great measure, comprehends and points

out the difference which exists between what are termed Public-
houses, and such as are distinguished by the           appellation of Gin-

shops.     The original intention of all Inns, Public-houses, Liquor-
               was, that they should       be houses   for accommodating
shops, &c.
travellers,   and labourers, with rest and refreshment.       Our modern
                                       those on a large scale, pos-
Gin-shops, however, and particularly
sess no qualification of the kind, nor do they offer any, but from
the temptations, which are held out by their proprietors, for the
subversion of the morals of tlie lower classes, by facilitating the
sale only of Spirits, to the exclusion of the        more wholesome be-
                                                      are compelled
verage of Porter, the means of doing which, (as they
to have the latter article in stock), they attain, by keeping; it so

bad, or sour, as to be quite      undrinkaMe ; not only is the end,     al-

luded to, fully accomplished, but the Publican, who is, or ought to
                                          125

deavour to cheat the Public, and enrich themselves.
My object has, alone, been to expose the tricks, by
which fraudulent dealers are enabled to cover the
system of adulteration and imposition they practise,
and which they induce the Public to patronize,
only by the effectual aid, which is afforded them,
by the extraordinary low prices they are (as I have
shown) so well qualified to advertise, and through


be made,          the only legitimate retailer,     is   materially injured in his
business.   Thus, a labouring man will now, at his usual dinner
hour, call at a Public-house, (the keeper of which dare not refuse
him entrance), in order to cook his victuals at                tlie   Tap-room fire,
for   which no charge is made, although, as some remuneration, and
which       is   the least that can be expected, he probably purchases a

pint, or half pint of Porter, the total profit on which,                is   about one

penny.           No sooner,   however,    is his   dinner concluded, than from
the superior attraction offered in the article of Spirits, he imme-

diately resorts to a Gin-shop, very likely, situated within a few
doors of the poor Publican, and, as is generally the case, without
even so much as a seat, on which to sit down.                  Here, the labourer
partakes of his two or three glasses of Gin, out of which the Gin-
shop-keeper clears a profit, nearly equal to the whole amount
which has been received by the Publican, although the latter deals
in    precisely the      same articles, and has to afford the greatest ac-
commodation, without any extra charge.      To so great a length,
indeed, has the evil, inflicted by these Gin-shops, arrived, that,
                              it is now
with few exceptions,                    only by those persons who hold
leases under          Brewers, that the Public-houses so held, have not
been converted into Gin-shops, or the necessary and proper ac-
commodation, discontinued to the poorer classes of the community.
It    is,   also,   a singular fact, that in the late depreciation of pro-

perty,      it   has been only the Public houses, that have so materially
suffered, Gin-shops,          still
                                      maintaining the enormous prices, -which
the value they have acquired, by the means I have shown, enables
their proprietors to obtain.
                             126

the medium of which,         it is   not only the supplying
of spurious and deleterious articles, for which con-

siderably more is paid than they are really worth,
and filling their own pockets by practises so dis-
reputable, but undermining-, as well, the very sub-
sistence of those, who are too honest to descend to
such means for obtaining a livelihood. It is to
the individuals only, who, from outward circum-
stances, evidently follow such practises, that the
fact of the disgraceful proceedings 1 have detailed,

being carried into execution, can be attributed.
  That I have advanced no more than the plain
truth, the numerous convictions which           have taken

place under the Excise Laws, for adulterating
Wines and Spirits, or for imposing in any other
way on the Revenue and the Public, with respect to
those articles, would fully evidence, and in a list of

which, it would be found, that the Dealers, whose
practises I have exposed, form, by far, the largest
majority, although, I have forborne obtaining and
publishing that list, lest, from the individuals whose
names     it   contains,   my motives in offering      this

Treatise to Public notice, should be misconstrued,
and supposed       to be, of a personal     and malignant
nature.
  From the facts and arguments, alone, which I
have submitted,      I   leave the Public to gather   some
idea of the extent, to which these fraudulent adul-
terations have been,  and still are, practised, with
the honest conviction, that should they appear of
                            127
sufficient weight, to induce
                             many to apply where
the genuine article is sold at a moderate price, a
more effectual stop, would be put to this most un-
justifiable system, than could, perhaps,      be done by
any other method whatever.
   Should     be urged, in reply to these facts, by
              it


any of the class to whom what I have here stated
applies, that I    have divulged secrets which ought
strictly to   have been confined to the Trade, 1 an-
swer, that by no honest Wine Merchant (such an
one, who makes the quality and genuineness of his

goods, and the moderation of his prices, the test
of his respectability), are the different materials for

adulterating, and the      method of their application,
with which he may have become acquainted, from

long intercourse with      all   classes of Dealers, con-
sidered by any means secrets, either as belong-
ing to the trade, or worth the keeping; and al-
though, the reasons which induce me to publish
this Treatise anonymously, will be better esti-
mated, by those in the trade, or, who are more inti-
mately acquainted with the description of people,
from whose guilty practises I have removed the
veil, yet, as to all persons, in    a greater or less de-
                               in an open discussion,
gree, it must be evident, that
in which the class alluded to, have nothing to lose,

but a source of profit unworthy of honest men, and
which, besides,    is   calculated, whether as a means
of conveying fresh advertisements of their pre-
tensions to the Public, as an extra opportunity for
                             128

puffing off an additional portion of their adul-
terated trash, or, in other respects, so much to
answer their purpose, and which,  to me, can pos-

sibly produce
              no similar result, the same estima-
tion, without any impeachment of my motives,

will,   I   trust,   be formed by every individual, into
whose hands this publication may fall.
  To refute the substance of that which I have
stated,would be no easy task the whole of my
arguments are deduced from facts the facts speak
for   themselves       the conclusions     I   leave to   my
Readers and the Public.         In submitting this state- .

ment, I consider I have        fulfilled   no more than a

duty to my fellow-citizens, and that it, therefore,
may operate as some check to the wrong which is
done them, and as a lesson to the perpetrators of
the wicked and fraudulent practises il details, is the
sincere prayer of




  A WELL-WISHER TO HONEST TRADERS.
                   LONDON:
JAMEf ROIIINS AND CO. IVT LANE,   1>   A C Kit NOUTRH   BOW.
                   ERRATA.
Page 7, line 8, for principles, read principle.
Page 28, line 9, for that, read this.
Page 30, line 15, for Rums, read .Rum.
Page 51, line 1, for that, read which.
Page 57, line 18, for it, read them.
Page 57, line 19, for it, read they.
 Page 84, line 14, for qualities, read quantities.
Page 95,   line 27, for articles, read article.
                                             jirui       ihiMirattone
         BY JAMES ROBINS AND CO. IVY LANE, PATERNOSTER ROW, LONDON.

                                                                I.

  THE POCKET MAGAZINE. ROBINS'S New Series of ARLISS'S long established
  work is published monthly, price Sixpence, regularly embellished with Engravings on Steel
  in the first style of the art by C. HEATH, C. ROLLS, &c- and on Wood by THOMPSON, after
  H. CORBOULD, G. CRUIKSHANK, and other eminent Artists. The Literary Department
  possesses considerable novelty, originality,
                                               and talent, and is adapted to the present im-
  proved state of knowledge.
    A fine edition, with proof impressions on India paper, price One Shilling.
                                                                II.

  MORE MORNINGS AT BOW STREET, a New Series of the most humorous
 and entertaining Reports, by JOHN WIGHT, of the Morning Herald. With a Frontis-
 piece, and twenty-five Illustrations by /JEORGE
                                                 CKUIKSHANK. 10s. fid. A few copies are
 printed on India paper, price 15s.
   India and plain impressions of the Cuts may be had separately, price 10s. 6d. and 6s.
                                                            III.
 POINTS OF HUMOUR, illustrated by a Series of Designs, by GEORGE CIUJIK-
 SHANK, on Copper and Wood.                   Part 1, Royal 8vo. price 8s. j coloured 12s. 6d.; and India
  proofs 12s. 6d.
                                                            IV.
 ECCENTRIC TALES, from the German of W. F. VON KOSEWITZ.                                                      Contain-
 ing twenty coloured Illustrations by                GEORGE CRUIKSHANK, from Sketches by ALFRED
 CROWQUILL. Price 15s.
                                                                V.
 GREENWICH HOSPITAL,                     Series of NAVAL SKETCHES descriptive of
                                                 a
 the Life of a Man-of-War's-Man, by an OLD SAILOR.    Printed in demy 4to. with Twelve
 characteristic Illustrations on Copper by GEORGB CRUIKSHANK, coloured in Costume, in
 addition to numerous Engravings on Wood, price One Guinea, boards.
    '
        In compliment lothe inexhaustible talent and drol-       form, with the addition of the artist's merry, grotesque,
 lery of George Cruikshank, we have put thisarticle at
                                                                 and laughable designs ' Literary Gazelle.
 the head of our department of the Fine Arts; and it                 The Author is an Old Sailor; but there is about
                                                                      '



 well deserves that grace. Yet it must not be fancied            him' a freshness and vigour that evince, in every page,
 that we mean to derogate from the literary merits of            the man of mind.' Dublin and London Magazine.
 the "old Sailor," whose Smotlet-like humour and                     Cruikshank's inimitable drawings will inflame the
                                                                      '




 genuine nautical characteristics so often occupied that         instant curiosity of all the amateurs in favour of the
 portion of the Literary Gazette in which we endeavour           book. ..The Siories are told with all that native hu-
 to lighten and enliven its graver pages. Indeed, these          mour and harmless though occasionally rude merri-
 Tales (or the far greater number of them) now so                ment that are so characteristic of a brave sailor....
 cleverly brought together, wejie originally printed in          The ' old Sailor" can excite our heartiest laugh and
 our columns; where they obtained so much popularity,            move us even to tears : what can we say more in
 as to lead to their being republished in this collected         testimony of his powers;' News of Literature.
                                                            VI.
 HANS OF ICELAND, a Tale, with four highly finished Etchings by GEORGK
                                           CRUIKSHANK. Price 7s. 6d.
                                    '
                                        Some say this monster was a witch,
                                        Some say he was a devil.' Dragon of Wantley.
                                                                     of its class which we have seen. There is a
   'Really Hans of Iceland is altogether one of the best productions
 power about it resembling one of Fuseli's pictures, and Cruikshank's design? are capital.' Literary Gazette.
                                                       VJI.
 TALES OF IRISH LIFE, illustrative of the Manners, Customs, and Condition
 of the People, collected during a residence of several years in various parts of Ireland,
 with Illustrations by GEORGE CRUIKSHANK. In 2 vols. price 12s.
     There is much matter worthy of earnest national                  'A hue of nature pervades them    an air of reality
 attention in these fictions; while, at the same time,           invests them,   life,actual life, is stamped upon the
                                                                 incidents and        the characters.'   Dublin Morning
 they are characteristic and amusing.' Literary Gazette.                         upon
     It would, we imagine, be no slight constraint upon
   '
                                                                 Register.
 the will of any man of taste to read one tale out of the
                                                                   '
                                                                     These volumes are calculated to do much good.
 sixteen, without reading all.' European Magazine.                 Dublin and London Magazine.
   '
     The designs of George Cruikshank, in this work,               'We recommend the whole 10 the perusal of our
 are sufficient to render any tales immortal.'        British    readers, as highly worthy of their attention.' Critical
 Press.                                                          Gazette.

                                                          VIII.
 MY GRANDMOTHER'S GUESTS AND                                                 THEIR TALES. By HENR?
                        SLINGSBY.         In 2 vols. post 8vo. price 16s. extra boards.
       The introductory frame work to the Tales is a             We have seldom seen an author who writes in so
                                                                      1




  smart and amusing piece of writing, and the Tales many different styles with so much merit.' Ladies'
  themselves are various and interesting.' Literary Pocket Magazine.
. Gazette.
                                                                'The author'shappy versatility of genius enables him
                                                                     "
    '
       The interest is well sustained throughout each story, to shift from grave to gay, from lively to severe," and
  and the author has executed his work with equal            to be equally successful in his tragic and comic efforts.'
  elegance and spirit.' News of Literature.                     New Times.
     '
        All are entertaining, and form a most agreeable          The writer knows how to excite the feelings and
                                                                      '



  miscellany.' World of Fashion.                             please the imagination.' Ladies' Museum.
2          Neu Publications by James Rabins und Co. Ivy Lane, Paternoster Row.
                                             IX.
THE CABINET OF PORTRAITS, a Collection of authentic likenesses of the
most celebrated characters of every Age and Nation, finely engraved by Cooper, Freeman,
Meyer, Picart, Scriven, Thomson, and other eminent artists, after Kneller, Vandyke,
Harlow, Beechey, Shee, &c. &c. With Biographical Sketches, by ROBERT SCOTT, ESQ.
author of ' The History of the Reign of George the Third,' &c.
   On the utility of the study of Biography, and the pleasing accompaniment of au-
thentic Portraits, it would be superfluous to expatiate. Portrait collecting has become ;i
favourite pursuit with so large a portion of the well informed, that a series like that now
offered, combining superior execution with inferior price, must be appreciated.     It is pub-

lishing in Parts, each containing five prints, price in foolscap 8vo. 2s. 6d. ; demy 8vo. 4s. ;
Quarto proofs 7s. Single portraits njay   he  had at 8d.  Is, and Is. 6d. each.
            The following are already published, or in the hands of the Engravers:
   Addison,       Canova,
                  New Publications by James Robins and Co- Ivy Lane, Paternoster Row.                                    5
                                                                XXI.
A NEW SELF-INTERPRETING TESTAMENT, containing many Thousands
of Parallel Passages, placed under the Text in words at length, with various readings, so
that die whole may be seen and read at one view.        By the Rev. JOHN PLATTS, author of
'A New Universal Biography,' 'The Literary and Scientific Class Book,' &c. In 4
volumes demy 8vo. or 1 volume royal quarto, price 2i. 12s. 6d. in extra boards.
   In this work the Sacred Writings 1'urnish their own interpretation, in the express language
of the inspired writers, which is certainly free from the objections that have been urged
against the circulation of the conflicting opinions of various sectarian commentators.
  '
          We cannot but approve of the design.'         Evangeli-   minister well affected lo evangelical truth, and de-
cal Magazine.                                                       serves the encouragement of all who are desirous of
  '
          The application of     parallel passages, quoted
                                                           in
                                                      promoting Scriptura knoVledge.'      Baptist's Mag.
words at length, and presenting the text with a com-      The greatest merit of this work is, that it is free
                                                                       '


ment in the express language of the inspired writers, from all sectarian bias, and is suited for ministers and
is convincingly the best method of interpretation.    Christians of all denominations. This must render it
Literary Gazette.                                     popular, and recommend it strongly to all who duly
  'There cannot be a dissentient opinion on the uti-                appreciate the Scriptures.' Literary Chronicle.
        work of this nature, and great praise must be
lity of a
                                                                       '
                                                                         We have for a long time wished to see a publica-
attached to the laborious student who completes it. . .             tion on the plan of the present.   We   have examined
We congratulate the public on the appearance of a                   the first part with much satisfaction, and feel pleasure
work which will supply a great desideratum in the                   in recommending so useful a work, especially to our
divinity library.'         Literary Register.                       fellow labourers.'    Sunday School Teacher's Maga-
  'This appears to be the laborious compilation of a
                                           XXII.
LECTURES ON THE PSALMS,                    by the late REV. JOHN EWART, A. M.
                            3 Volumes, Octavo, U. 11s. 6d.
                                         XXIII.
LEWIS'S CATECHISMS of the ARTS and SCIENCES, price 6d. each. The
cheapest and most useful elementary works in the English Language, Embellished with
many hundreds of Engravings, and arranged on a plan which obviates the objection to a
number of superfluous questions, whilst at the same time they may be used catechetically
if desired. The Parts already published, each of which is complete in itself, comprise
           Architecture,                        Natural History of Beasts,      Entomology,              Optics,
           Astronomy,                           Ornithology,                    Hydrostatics,            Acoustics,
           Mechanics,                           Amphibia,                       Pneumatics,              Magnetism,
           Natural History of Man,              Ichthyology,                    Hydraulics,                  &c.
                    No. 18, containing ELECTRICITY and GALVANISM, is in the Press.
                                                               XXIV.
LEWIS'S CATECHISMS of ANIMATED NATURE, the cheapest and most com-
prehensive Natural History extant, embellished with innumerable Engravings, 4s. 6d. bds.
                                                                XXV.
                              LEWIS'S ENGLISH GRAMMAR.                                 3s. boards.
                                                                XXVI.
RATIONAL STENOGRAPHY, or SHORT HAND MADE EASY. By the Rev.
                                            J.    NIGHTINGALE. Price 2s. 6d.
                                                          XXVII.
MRS. LANFEAR'S LETTERS TO YOUNG LADIES on their Entrance into
the World, to which are                 added Sketches from Real Life, with a Frontispiece, 4s. 6d. bds.
    This volume contains much friendly and wholesome tions to practice, they would experience the advantage
      '



advice; and if those young ladies, for whose perusal when engaged in the active concerns of life.' Imperial
it seems chiefly designed, were to reduce its admoni- Magazine.
                                                               XXVIII.
THE HISTORY OF THE REIGN OF GEORGE THE THIRD, in Con-
tinuation of HUME           and SMOLLETT, by ROBERT SCOTT Esq.                            In 4 vols. 8vo. with a fine
portrait by         MJSYER, '21. 2s.
                                                                XXIX.
POCKET EDITION OF SCOTT'S REIGN OF GEORGE THE THIRD,
                                         5 vols. I/. 5s. with 30 fine Engravings.
                          XXX
 HUISH'S HISTORY OF THE CORONATION of KINO GEORCK IV. 7s. 6d.
                                                                XXXI
 NIGHTINGALE'S REPORT OF THE TRIAL OF QUEEN CAROLINE,
                                      in 3 vols. with Engravings, price 2 Guineas.
                                                               XXXII.
 THE NAVAL CHRONICLE, complete in 40 Volumes.                                                     A few remaining
                                            Copies may be had for 151. each.
                                                               XXXIII      .


 ROBINS'S BRITISH ATLAS, comprising Forty-five Maps on Royal Quarto,
 accurately Engraved by NEELE, from the latest Surveys, and finely coloured, 2 Guineas.
                                                                XXXIV.
                 DR. EVANS'S GENERAL ATLAS, 12s. half bound, coloured.
4              New Publieationt ly James Robint and Co. Ivy Lane, PaternoHer Row.
                                                      XXXV.
WONDERFUL CHARACTERS, comprising Memoirs and Anecdotes of the
most remarkable Persons of every Age and Nation; collected from Authentic Sources, by
HENRY WILSON. In Svols. 8vo. price ll. 17s. 6d. or 12 Parts at 3s. Embellished with
                                                         those persons who have been most
Fifty Characteristic Engravings, accurately representing
remarkably distinguished by some peculiarity of habit, or of person.
                                                     XXXVI.
BIOGRAPHIA CURIOSA                       ;   or,    Memoirs of Remarkable Characters of the
Reign of George the Third. With their Portraits.                  Printed on Royal Octavo, and em-
bellished with 48 plates, price 1 1. 11s. 6d. boards.
                                                    xxxvii.
FIFTY WONDERFUL PORTRAITS, Engraved by R. COOPER and R. PAGE.
  Quarto Proofs price 11. 5s. boards. A few copies on tinted paper at the same price.
                                                    XXXVIII.
PORTRAITS OF THE KINGS OF ENGLAND, to illustrate HUME                                                      and
                                        SMOLLETT, in 8vo. 7s. 6d.
                                                    XXXIX*
FORTY ILLUSTRATIONS OF LORD BYRON, by GEO. CUUIKSHANK, 8vo.6s.
                                                     XL.
SHAKSPEARE'S                 PLAYS,          with    Engravings on Wood,               by NESBIT         after
                                 THURSTON.          8 vols. 8vo. 4 Guineas.
                                                      XLI.
MACDONALD'S NEW LONDON FAMILY COOK, upon a Plan of Eco-
nomy ; comprehending Directions for Marketing, Bills of Fare for every Week in the
Year, a Selection of Family Recipes, &c. &c. By DUNCAN MACDONALO, late Head
Cook at the Bedford Tavern and Hotel, Covent Garden. With 11 Engravings ; 10s. 6d.
                                                     XLII.
THE NEW BRITISH TRAVELLER, OB MODERN PANORAMA OP ENGLAND
AND WALES, by JAMES DUGDALE, LL. D. with numerous Views, and a complete country
Atlas.    In about SO Parts, Quarto, price 4s. each.
                                                     XLIII.
DR. HUGHSON'S HISTORY AND DESCRIPTION OF LONDON and
its Environs, to the extent of Thirty Miles. In 30 Parts, at 2s. 6d. common, or 5s. fiue
paper, with 300 Engravings on Copper and Wood.
                                                     XL1V.
THE REPOSITORY OF MODERN LITERATURE, consisting of Choice
Selections and Original Communications from eminent Authors.                      In 2 vols. price      ll. 4s.
with 1 00 Engravings ; or in Parts, at 2s.
                                                     XLV
THE WORKS OF JOSEPHUS, THE' JEWISH HISTORIAN, Translated
bj Whiston, with Notes, Parallel Texts, Index, &c. by the Rev. S. BURDER, Author of
'
  Oriental Customs,' &c. In ten parts, 5s. each, with 30 Engravings.
                                          XLVl.
THE LIFE OF THE REV. JOHN WESLEY, A. M. by DR. COKE and MR.
                           MOORE, with seven portraits, &c. 8vo. 12s. 6d.
                                                    XLVII.
EMBLEMS, DIVINE AND MORAL, by FRANCIS QUARLES. A New Edition,
carefully revised and corrected, with Glossarial Notes, by the Rev. R. WILSON, A. M.                        In
2 vols. foolscap 8vo. with 80 Copperplate Engravings, price 10s. 6d.
                                                    XLVIII.
THE FULFILMENT OF SCRIPTURE PROPHECIES on NATIONS and
KINGDOMS, exemplified in a remarkable manner, in an Epitome of the History of the World,
from the Creation to the Advent of the Messiah, by JOHN HOYLAND. In 2 vols.
  The late Bishop of Llandaff, in a letter to the Author, says. ' I have read the whole work carefully, and
think it extremely well calculated to be of essential service to all persons, but especially those whose educa-
tion in Scripture history has been neglected.'
                                                    XLIX.
SUICIDE AND ITS ANTIDOTES, by the Rev. S. PIGGOTT, with Frontispiece, 7*.
                                                      L.
                   THE NEW WHOLE DUTY OF MAN, I2rao. 5s.
                                                      LI.
DR. JOHNSON'S ENGLISH DICTIONARY.                                      In J6 Parts, Quarto, at 5s.
                                                     LII.
    WALKER'S PRONOUNCING DICTIONARY.                                       In 12 Parts, at Is. each.
                                                     LIII.
         THE NEW BANKRUPT ACT, divested of legal Phraseology, Is.
           Wwi
         / V /
         W
     Y/\ /
             wi
             /\
       W WW /v
    W\ W WV /\
            w
         /


    WW
    /W
         \/ \/ w
         '/


         /\ /\ /v
    WW
    /\/\
         \ /
              \}<
                      /
                          m
                          ^
                            1 "
                                  AA


    V7V7 \B/ \            *

         /\/\ /V
         V/A/ \ 7
         \/ \/\/
         /I       '




                      \/


         \/V/\/
         /\/\/\
         WWW
         A
         /   /\ /\
J        v j % j v j
