            OXFORD




COLLEOTIO^r        OF      RECEIPTS


              FOK MAKING




       VARIOUS BEVERAGES




     THE     UNIVERSITY.




       A NEW EDITION, ENLARGED.




            OXFORD,
BLATTER & ROSE,' 2 & 3, HIGH STREET.
             Price 2s. Qd.
r       ^                ,7-'




    r!* i           \
!i- I-      ■       i-
,I ;■
I' '


                /


                /




    ►
/ ^   \
i 'ill   'iiltlli   jBiUmt
                      OXFORD



                                A


    COLIiECTION                 OF        RECEIPTS

                         FOR MAKING


i      ;      VARIOUS BEVERAGES
                           USED IN



           THE         UNIVERSITY.

        Quid non ebrietas designat? Operta recludit,
        Spes jubet esse ratas, ad prcella trudit inertem,
        Sollicitis animis onus eximit, addocct ortos.
        Fecundi calices quern non fecere disertum 1
¥       Contracta-quein non in paiipertale solutura?
                                            I£or, lib. i. ep. 5.

        "What cannot wine perform ? It brings to light
        The secret soul; It bids the coward fight;
        Gives being to our hopes, and from our licarts
        Drives the dull sorrow and inspires new arts,
        Whom hath not an inspiring bumper taught
        A flow of words and loftiness of thought!
        Even in th' oppressive grasp of poverty
        It can enlarge, and bid the wretch be free.
                                                 JFrancU,



            A NEW EDITION, ENLARGED.


                      OXFORD,
    SLATTER & ROSE, 2 & 3,' HIGH STREET.
                         MDCCOLX.




                                                                   '/
igntereSi at StatfoTOro* lia!I.




   E. "W. MOBRIB, PETKTEB, OXFORD.




                                     iiittI 'Hill - fi
                CONTENTS.


                                       Page
Bishop, or Spiced Wine                     1
Lawn Sleeves                              4
Cardinal                                  4
Pope                                      4
Cider Bishop                              ^
Oxford Mull                               5
Negus                                     5
White Wine Negus                      - 6
Cold White Wine Negus                   7
Port Wine Negus                     -. 7
Sherry Cobbler                          8
Julap, or Julep                    . . 10
Oxford Punch, or Classical Sherbet . . . 11
Noyeau Punch
Spiced Punch
Tea Punch                                 16
Gin Punch                                 16
Bed Punch                                 16
Punch Eoyal                               17
Milk Punch                                17
Oxford Milk Punch                         18
Norfolk Milk Punch                        18
Kestorativo Punch, vulgo Storativo . . . 19
Leander Punch                             20
Lemon Punch to keep                       21
Egg Punch                                  22
Almond Punch                               23
Shrah Punch                                23
Champagne Punch                            23
Punch h la Romaine                         24
Innkeepers' Punch    .                     24
Lemonade     . . . . . .. .. . . . . 25
Orangeade                                  25
Sir Fleetwood Fletcher's Sack Posset   . . 26
Wliite Wine Wliey, or Milk Posset . . . 27
Pepper Posset                            27
Cider Posset  .                  ■ . . . 28
Perry Posset                             28
Rum Booze, or Egg Posset                   29
Beer Flip                                  30
Rumfustian                                30
The Oxford Grace Cup . . . ■ • • • 31
Cider Cup, or Cold Tankard . . . . . 34
Peny Cup                  • . . . . . 37
Beer Cup                              38
Red Cup                               38
The Wassail Bowl, or Swig             38
Brown Betty                   . . . . 41
Lamhs Wool                                ^2
Brasenose Ale                             44
Metheglin                                 50
Vinous Metheglin . . . . . t • • • 52
Mead and Braggon, or Bragget . . . * 53




                                                ■*li * > I I   ill
                   OXFORD

    NIGHT                        CAPS.


     BISHOP, OR SPICED WINE.
   Three cups of tins a prudent man may take;
   The first of these for constitution's sake,
   The second to the girl he loves the best,
   The third and last to lull him to his rest.
                               Ancient Fragment.
  Bishop seems to be one oftbe oldest winter
beverages known, and is to tbis day preferred
to every other, not only by the youthful
votary of Bacchus at his evening's revelry,
but also by the grave JDon by way of a Night
Cap; and probably derives its name from the
circumstance of ancient dignitaries of the
Church, when they honoured the University
with a visit, being regaled with spiced wine.
It appears from a work published some years
since, and entitled, Oxoniana, or Anecdotes of
the University of Oxford, that in the Rolls or.
Accounts of some Colleges of ancient foun
dation, a sum of money is frequently met
with charged "pro specieius," that is, for
spices used in their entertainments; for in
those days as well as the present, spiced
wine was a very fasionable beverage. In
the Gomputus of Mastoke Priory, anno
1447, is the following curious entry:"Item
pro vino cretico cum speciebus et confectis
datis diversis generosis in die Sancti Dionysii
quando Le fole domini Montfordes erat hie,
et faceret jocositates suas in camera Orioli,"
"Vinum creticim" is supposed to be raisin
wine, ,or wine made of dried grapes; and
the meaning of the whole seems to be this:
Paid for raisin wine with comfits and
spices, when Sir S. Montford's fool was
here, and exhibited his merriments in the
Oriel chamber.

                   Recipe.
  Make several incisions, in the rind of a
lemon, stick cloves in the incisions, and
roast the lemon by a slow fire.          small
                          3


but equal quautities of'cinnamon, cloves,
mace and all-spice, into a saucepan, Tvitb
balf a pint of water; let it boil until it is
reduced one balf. Boil one bottle of port
wine; brnm a portion of tbe spirit out of
it, by applying a lighted paper to tbe
saucepan. Put tbe roasted lemon and spice
into tbe wine; stir it up well, and let it
stand near tbe fire ten minutes.             Rub a
few knobs of sugar on tbe rind of a lemon,
put tbe sugar into a bowl or jug, witb
tbe juice of balf a lemon, (not roasted,)
pour tbe wine into it, grate some nutmeg
into it, sweeten it to your taste, and serve
it up witb tbe lemon and spice floating
in it.

  Oranges, altbougb not used in Bisbop at
Oxford, are, as wiU appear by tbe following
lines, written by Swift, sometimes introduced
into tbat beverage.
                          Fine oranges
 Well roasted, witli sugar and rviue in a cup
 They'll make a sweet Bishop when gentlefolks sup.
    LAW SLEEVES, OAEDINAL,
                AND POPE,
Owe tlieir origin to some Brazenose Bac-
chanalians, and differ only from Bisliop as
the species from the genus.


           LAW SLEEVES,
   Substitute madeira or sherry for port
wine, and add three glasses of hot calves-
feet jelly.


                CARDINAL.

  Substitute claret for port wine; in other
respects the same as Bishop.

                 POPE.

  Precisely the same as Bishop, with the
exception of champagne being used instead
of port wine.
                CIDER BISHOP.

  Omit tlie wine, and add one bottle of
good cider, a quarter of a pint of brandy,
and two glasses of calves-feet jelly in. a
liquid state.


                OXFORD MULL.

   Boil a small quantity of cinnamon, cloves,
and mace in half a pint of water; pour
into it one bottle of port wine, and when
it is nearly hoihng, add two lemons thinly
sliced. Sweeten it to taste, and it is fit
for use.



                   XEGHS.
  Hegus is a modern beverage, and, accord
ing to Malone, derives its name from its
inventor. Colonel ISTegus. Dr. Willich, in
his "Lectures on Diet and Regimen,''
says, that Hegus is one of the most inno
cent and wholesome species of drink;
especially if Seville oranges be added to




                                                J(1
red port wine, instead of lemons; and
drunk moderately, it possesses considerable
virtues in strengthening the stomach; but,
on account of the volatile and heating oil
in the orange peel, Negus, if taken in
great quantities, is more stimulant and
drying than pure wine.

        WHITE WINE NEGUS.

  Extract the juice from the peeling of
one lemon, by rubbing loaf sugar on it;
or cut the peeling of a lemon extremely
thin, and pound it in a mortar. Cut two
lemons into thin slices; four glasses of
calves-feet jelly in a liquid state; small
quantities of cinnamon, mace, cloves, and
aU-spice. Put the whole into a jug, pour
one quart of boiling water upon it, cover
the jug close, let it stand a quarter of an
hour, and then add one bottle of boiling
hot white wine. Grate half a nutmeg
into it, stir it well together, sweeten it to
your taste, and it is fit for use.




                            tri ll
  Seville oranges are not generally used at
Oxford in making Negus ; wken they are,
one orange is allowed to each bottle of wine.

     COLD WHITE WINE NEGHS.
  To make cold white wine Negus, let the
mixture stand until it is quite cold, and then
pour a bottle of white wine into it.
  It is sometimes in the summer season
placed in a tub of ice ; when that is done it
will he necssary to make the Negus some
what sweeter, as extreme cold detracts from
the sweetness of liquors.

          PORT WINE NEGHS.
  In 'making port wine Negus, merely omit
the jelly: for when port wine comes in con
tact with calves-feet jelly, it immediately
assumes a disagreeable muddy appearance.
  Negus is not confined to any particular
sorts of wine ; if the jelly is omitted, it can
be made with anj-, or several sorts mixed
together.
              SHERRY COBBLER.

  Sherry Cobbler has only been recently
introduced into the University, and has
become a great favourite among the Under
graduates. It unfortunately happened, that
on its first introduction, ice -was procured
from the Confectioners and Fishmongers
which had been taken from stagnant ponds
and noisome ditches; consequently those who
 partook of it imbibed the filthy impmdties
 which it contained. Subsequently the lemon,
 grape,strawberry, and other pure and whole
some water ices of the Confectioners, have
been substituted.^

                          B,ecipe.
  Pound a small quantity of ice quite fine,
by wrapping it in a coarse cloth, and beat
ing it with a mallet or rolling pin. Half fill
a large tumbler with this powdered ice.
Add a teaspoonful and a half of pounded
 'ThiB liquor, drawn into tiro moutli tlirougli a straw,
"has iu more tliaii one instance proclucod Vertigo.
sugar, two or tHree pieces of tlie outer rind
of a lemon, and a wine glass and a lialf of
sherry. (Throw in half a dozen strawberries,
if in season.) Fill up with poimded ice.
Mix by pouring rapidly from one tumbler to
another several times.    Drink through a
straw.



  This fashionable compound was published
by a party of speculating gentlemen, who
have denominated themselves"the Wenham
Lake Ice Company." And it appears, that
the Company imports an immense quantity
of ice from Wenham lake in America, which
is transmitted to any part of the imited
kingdom by American refrigerators or por
table ice houses, and sold through the
agencies of Tradesmen residing at Liver
pool, Birmingham, Manchester, Dublin,
Hastings, Richmond, and Blackheath.
                           10


             JTJLAP, OR JIJLEP.
      Beliold this cordial Julap here,
    Tliat flames and dances in his crystal hounds,
    With spirits of balm and fragrant sjTups mixt.
                                            Milton.

   Julap® is a refreshing and wholesome
drinlv, used much by country housewives.
John Quincy,® the author of a dictionary of
Physic, describes it as an extemporaneous
form of medicine, made of simple and com
pound water sweetened, and serves for a
vehicle to other forms not so convenient to
take alone.
  The usual mode of maldng it in the vicin
age of Oxford is, by sweetening an infusion
of mint with honey, and mixing a glass of
wine or spirits with it.
  The following is the Mint Julep of the
"Wenham Lake Company;
  Mingle ice and sugar as described in the
Recipe for Sherry Cobbler.               Add a wine
glass of brandy, half a wine glass of old rum,
 ® Jukp is a Persian word, signifying a sweet potion.
   Died in 1723.
                          11


and two or three sprigs of mint. Stir the
whole well together, and drink it through a
straw.




  OXFORD PUNCH, OR CLASSICAL
                   SHERBET.

      When e'en a howl of punch we make,
      Four striking opposites we lake ;
      The strong, the small, the sharp, the sweet.
      Together mix'cl, most kindly meet;
      And when they happily unite,
      The bowl is pregnant with delight.

  The liquor called Punch has become so
truly English, it is often supposed to he in
digenous to this country, though its name at
least is oriental. The Persian punj, or San
scrit panclia, i. e. five,® is the etymon of its
title, and denotes the number of ingredients
  * The straws used are generally obtained from bonnet-
makers, and are about eight inches long.
'See Fryer's Travels.
                      12


 of ivhich it is composed. AMiaon'sfoxhunter,
 wlio testified so mucli surprise wlien h.e
 found, that of the materials of which this
"truly English'' beverage was made, only
the water belonged to England, would have
 been more astonished had his informant also
told him, that it derived even its name from,
the East.
  Various opinions are entertained respect
ing this compound drink. Some authors
jpraise it as a cooling and refreshing beverage,
when drank in moderation; others condemn
the use of it, as prejudicial to the brain and
nervous system. Dr. Cheyne, a celebrated
Scotch physician, author of "An Essay on
Long Life and Health," and who by a sys
tem of diet and regimen reduced himself
from the enormous weight of thirty-two
stone to nearly one third, which enabled
him to live to the age of seventy-two, insists,
that there is but one wholesome ingredient
in it, and that is the water. Dr. Willich,
on the contrary, asserts, that if a proper
quantity of acid be used in making Punch,
                           13


it is an excellent antiseptic, and ■well calcu
lated to supply the place of wine in resisting
putrefaction, especially if drank cold •with
plenty of sugar; it also promotes perspira
tion : hut if drank hot and immoderately, it
creates acidity in the stomach, weakens the
nerves, and gives rise to complaints of the
breast. He further states, that after a heavy
meal it is improper, as it may check di
gestion, and injure the stomach.®
   Hennie states, that he once heard a face
tious phj'^sician at a public hospital prescribe
for a poor fellow sinking under the atrophy
of starvation, a bowl of Ruin Punch. Mr.
Wadd gives us a prescription—"Rum, aqua
dulci miscetur acetum, et fiet ex tali fmdere
nobile Punch." He also states, that Toddy,
or Punch without acid, when made for a day
or two before it is used, is a good and cheap
substitute for wine as a tonic, in convales
cence from typhus fever, &c.
   ® Fielding mentions a Clergyman who preferred Punch
to "Wine for this orthodox reason, that the former was a-
liquor no where spoken against in Scripture.
                             14


                     Recipe.
     Extract the juice from the rind of three
 lemons, by rubbing loaf sugar on them.
 The peeling of two Seville oranges and two
 lemons, cut extremely thin. The juice of
 four Seville oranges and ten lemons. Six
 glasses of calvesfeet jelly in a liquid state.
 The above to be put into a jug, and stirred
 well together. Pour two quarts of boiling
water on the mixture, cover the jug closely,
and place it near the fire for a quarter of an
hour. Then strain the liquid through a
sieve into a punch bowl or jug, sweeten it
with a bottle of capillaire, and add half a
pint of white wine, a pint of French brandy,
a pint of Jamaica rum, and a bottle of orange
shrub; the mixture to be stirred as the spirits
are pour in. If not sufficiently sweet, add
loaf sugar gradually in small quantities, or a
spoonful or two of capillaire. To be served
up either hot or cold.'' The Oxford Punch,
'Ignorant servants and waiters sometimes pnt oxalic
acid into Punch to give it a flavour; such a practice cannot
he too severely censured.
                           15


wlien made witli lialf the quantity of spirit
uous Hquors and placed in an ice tub for a
short time, is a pleasant summer beverage.
  In making this Pmich, limes are some
times used instead of lemons, hut they are
by no means so wholesome.®

               NOYEAU PUNCH.
   Jdix three wine glasses of Noyeau with
the Oxford Punch.
  Noyeau is dangerous, when drank in anv
quantity, as it contains hydrocyanic acid;
therefore more than the quantity specified
ought not to he used.

                SPICED PUNCH.
   Boil a small quantity of each sort of spice
in half a pint of water, until it is reduced
one half; add it to the ingredients which
compose the Oxford Punch, and grate a
whole nutmeg into it. Spiced Punch, if
  ® Arbuttnot, in Ms work on ailments, says, "tbe West
India dry gripes arc occasioned by lime juice in Punch."   '!
                       IG


bottled off as soon as it is cold, with tbe spice
in it, will keep good several days.

                  TEA PUNCH.
  Green tea is tbe basis of tbis Puncb ; and
altbougb Tea Puncb is seldom made in
Oxford, it nevertbeless bas been mucb es
teemed by tbose wbo bave partaken of it.
It is invariably drank bot. It is made pre
cisely in tbe same way as tbe Oxford Puncb,
excepting tbat tbe jelly is omitted, and green
tea suppbes tbe place of water.

                  GIN PUNCH.
  Tbe same as Oxford Puncb, only omit tbe
rum, brandy, and sbrub, and substitute two
bottles of gin.

                  PED PUNCH.
  Substitute port wine for wbite, and red
currant jelly for calvesfeet jelly; in otber
respects tbe same as Oxford Puncb.            If
drank in tbe summer, let it stand until it is
                      1^


cold, and then put it into a bucket of ice.
Care must be taken that the ice ■u'ater
does not get into the jug which contains
this Punch.
              PUNCH EGYAL.
  Extract the juice from the peeling of a
lemon, by rubbing loaf sugar on it. Pour
one pint of boiling water on it. Add the
juice of six lemons, one pint of rum, and
a pint of port wine. Sweeten it to your
taste, and it is fit for use.

              MILK PUNCH.
   Warm two quarts of water and one of
new milk, then mix them well together,
and sweeten it with a sufficient quantity
of loaf sugar. Eub a few knobs of loaf
sugar on the peeling of a lemon; put them
into a jug with the above, and pom* into
it gradually half a pint of lemon juice,
stirring the mixture as it is poured in.
Then add one quart of white brandy.
Strain it through a flannel hag or a fine
hair sieve. Bottle it off, and if placed in
                     18


a cool cellar it ■will keep ten days or a
fortnight. Jellies are sometimes used in
making this Punch, but they are not
necessary, as the milk •will sufficiently
temper the acrimony of the lemon juice.

        OXPOED MILK PIJlSrCH.
  Dissolve two pounds and a half of double
refined sugar in one gallon of cold spring
•water; add to it a quarter of a pint of
orange-flower water, the juice of twenty
limes and eight pot oranges. Stir it well
together; pour one quart of boiling milk
into it, and then add three quarts of white
brandy and three quarts of orange brandy
shrub; strain it through a flannel bag or
fine hair sieve.   Take out what is wanted
for present use, and bottle off the remainder.

      NORFOLK MILK PUNCH.
  Cut the peeling of six Seville oranges and
six lemons, extremely thin. Pound it in a
stone mortar. Add thereto a pint of brandy,
                     19


and let it remain about six hours; then
squeeze the juice of six Seville oranges and
eight lemons into it. Stir it well, and pour
into it three more pints of brandy, three
pints of rum, and three quarts of water.
Make two quarts of skimmed milk boiling
hot; grate a nutmeg into it; mis it gradually
with the other ingredients; add a suflEicient
quantity of fine loaf sugar to sweeten it,
(about two pouuds.) Stir it till the sugar is
dissolved.   Let the mixture stand twelve
hours, then strain it through a flannel hag
till it is quite clear. It is then fit for use.
It has been said, that if this Punch is
bottled off and well corked, it will keep in
any climate, and for any length of time.
  The bottles it is put into must be perfectly
dry.

       EESTOEATIVE PUNCH, milgo
               STOEATIYE.
  Extract the juice from the peeling of one
Seville orange and one lemon; the juice of j
                          20


six Seville oranges and sis lemons, six glasses
of calves-feet jelly in a liquid state, a suf
ficient quantity of loaf sugar, (about half a
pound ;) put the whole into a jug, pour on it
one quart of boiling water; add four glasses
of brandy, stir it well together, and it is fit
for use.'

              LBANDER PUNCH.
  This drink was invented by Mr. Fellows,
who was for many years an active member
of the well-known "London Boat Club,"
from which it takes its name. The inventor
caused the Punch to he introduced into the
University by a friend at Oh. Ch.
                       Itecijje.
  Four glasses of whisky, (Irish if possible)
two glasses of brandy, and the juice and peel
of one large lemon. Add boiling water to
make a quart, and if not enough, ad libitum.
 'Many of the first statesmen of the present day (should
they Bee this) will recognise it as the liquor invariably
drank hy them at College before they attended their
debating parties.
                      21


Tien boil a wine glass of good old ale, and
put the froth into the punch ■with one table-
spoonful of the ale ; sweeten to the taste and
stir it. If it stands in a jug near the fire for
half an hour it will be improved.

      LEMON PUNCH TO KEEP.
  Cut the rind off six lemons if large, eight
if small, squeeze out the juice, put the rind
and the juice together, and add one quart of
white brandy. Let it remain closely covered
for three or four days.
  Let the juice of six or eight additional
lemons be squeezed into two quarts of water,
put into it a sufficient quantity of double
refined sugar to sweeten the whole. Boil it
well, and ■when quite cold, pour into it a
bottle of sherry or madeira. Then mix it
well with the lemon and brandy, and, if
sufficiently sweet, strain it through a flannel
bag into a small cask. At the expiration of
three months bottle it off, and, if the bottles
are well corked and kept in a cool place, it
will be fit to drink in a month.             ' '
                      22


               EGG PUNCH.

   One quart of cold water, tlie juice of six
lemons and six pot oranges, four glasses of
calves-feet jelly in a liquid state; stir the
whole well together; let it remain covered
over for half an hour; then strain it through
a hair sieve, and add to it a bottle of capil-
laire, two glasses of sherry, half a pint of
brandy, and one bottle of orange shrub.
Put some pulverised sugar and ten fresh-
laid hens' eggs into a bowl, beat them well
together, and gradually unite the two mix
tures by keeping the eggs well stirred as it
is poured in; then whip it with a whisk
until a fine froth rises, and if sweet enough
it is fit for immediate use

  This Punch shmild be drank as soon as it
is made,for if kept for any length of time it
will turn sour.

  Omit the wine and spirits, and freeze the
remainder, and a mould of ice may be ob
tained equal to any in use.




                              - 1-^^-
                     23


            ALMOND PUNCH.
  Extract tlie juice from tlie peeling of one
lemon and one Seville orange by rubbing
loaf sugar on tbem. The juice of sis lemons
and one Seville orange, one bottle of capU-
laire, and a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar.
Put the whole into a jug, and when well
mixed, pour upon it three pints of boiling
water. Cover the jug close, and keep it
near the fire a-quarter of an hour. Then
add three ounces of sweet and half an ounce
of bitter almonds, blanched and pounded
fine in a mortar, and gradually mixed with a
bottle of white brandy. Stir it well, and if
sufdciently sweet it may be used immediately.
             SHEUB PUNCH.
  To make the above into Shrub Punch of
a superior flavour and quality to that in
general use, merely leave out the eggs.
         CHAMPAGNE PUNCH.
  Pare two lemons very thin, and steep the
peeling in one pint of rum, (or grate sOme
                     24


lemon peel on a lump of sugar, and as the
surface becomes yellow scrape it into the
rum;) add a wine glass of sherry, half a pint
of brandy, the juice of four lemons, a small
quantity of syrup of capillaire, one quart of
boiling water, sweeten it sufficiently with
pounded sugar, and when those are assem
bled who intend to partake of it, pour into it
a bottle of champagne.

       PUNCH A LA ROMAINE.

  Hake one pint and a half of lemonade,
beat to a froth the whites of four ,eggs, stir
to this two ounces of pounded sugar, add
half a quartern of rum, and the same quan
tity of brandy, with four glasses of green
gooseberry or white currant wine.
  This Punch is usually iced.

        INN KEEPERS' PUNCH.
  Dissolve about seven ounces of lump sugar
in one pint of boiling water, add forty grains




                            ■-
                     25


of citric acid, seven or eight drops of essence
of lemon, and (when well mixed) half a pint
of rum, a quarter of a pint of brandy, and a
glass of sherry.

                 LEMONADE.

  To convert Egg Punch into delicious
Lemonade, leave out the wine, spirits, and
oranges, and add the juice of four more
lemons, and a proportionate quantity of
sugar.



             ■   ORANGEADE.

  The mixture may also be made into
Orangeade by omitting the wine, spirits,
and lemons, and squeezing into it the juice
of twelve oranges in addition to those men
tioned in the recipe for Egg Punch.




         f             ■■ n-.i ■ ^   ■■   . .     -
                          26


                      POSSET.
 From fam*d Barljadoes, on the "western maioj
 Fetch sugar, ounces four; fetch sack from Spain
 A pint; and from the Eastern Indian coast
 Nutmeg, the glory of our northern toast;
 O'er flaming coals let them together heat,
 Till the all-conquering sack dissolve the sweet;
 O'er such another fire put eggs just ten,
 New-born from tread of cock and rump of hen ;
 Stir them with steady hand and conscience pricking,
 To see th' untimely end of ton fine ehicken :
 From shining shelf take down the brazen skellet,
 A quart of milk from gentle cow will fill it;
 "When boil d and cold, put milk and sack to eggs.
 Unite them firmly like the triple league.
 And on the fire let them together dwell
 Till miss sing twice—you must not kiss and tell:
 Each lad and lass take up a silver spoon.
 And fall on fiercely like a starved dragoon.
                  Sir Fletitioood Fletcher's Sach Posset.




  Posset, it seems, is a medicated drink of
some antiquity; for among the numerous
English authors "who in some "way or other
speak of it, our immortal Bard Shakspeare
has made one of his characters say, "We'll
                      27


iave a Posset at tlie latter end of a sea coal
fire." And Sir Jolin Suclding, wlio died in
1641, says in one of his poems,"In came
the bridesmaids with the Posset." Dr. John
son describes Posset to he milk curdled with
wine and other acids ; we may therefore
with propriety infer, that,the Wliite Wine
Whey so common in Oxford, is the Milk
Posset of our forefathers.

   WHITE WINE WHEY, OR MILK
                   POSSET.
  Put one pint of millc into a saucepan, and
when it boils pour into it one gill of white
wine; boil it till the curd becomes hard,
then strain it through a fine sieve; rub a few
 knobs of loaf sugar on the rind of a lemon,
 put them into the Whey; grate a small
 quantity of nutmeg into it; sweeten it to
 your taste, and it is fit for use.
             PEPPER POSSET.
   The more to promote perspiration, whole
 pepper is sometimes boiled in the Whey, hut
 aU-spice is far preferable.
                            28


   A Pepper Posset was known to the learned
 and ingenious John Dryden, as will appear
 by the following lines written by him;
       A sparing diet did her health assure ;
       Or sick, a pepper posset was her cure.


                CIDER POSSET.
  Pound the peeling of a lemon in a mortar,
pour on it one quart of fresh drawn cider ;
sweeten it with double-refined sugar, add
one gill of brandy, and one quart of milk
from the cow, stir it well together, strain it
through a fine hair sieve or a flannel bag,
then grate a nutmeg into it, and it is fit for
use.



               PERRY POSSET
is prepared in the same way, excepting that
perry is used instead of cider.
  There are other Possets, which have milk
for their basis, in use in difierent parts of the
country, such, for instance, as Treacle, Beer^
and Orange Posset; but as they are seldom
                      29


if ever made in Oxford, it is not necessary
that any thing further should he said of
them.
  The following have an affinity to, and
possibly derived their origin from, Sir Fleet-
wood Fletcher's Sack Posset.

   ETJM BOOZE, OR EGG POSSET.^
  The yolks of eight eggs well beaten up,
with some refined sugar pulverised, and a
grated nutmeg; extract the juice from the
rind of a lemon by rubbing loaf sugar on it;
put the sugar, a piece of cinnamon, and
bottle of white wine, into a clean saucepan;
when the wine boils take it off the fire;
pour one glass of cold white wine into it,
put it into a spouted jug, and pour it
gradually among the yolks of eggs, &c.
keeping them well stirred with a spoon as
the wine is poured in; if not sweet enough,
add a small quantity of loaf sugar; then,
pour the mixture as swift as possible from.
    'It is sometimes denominated Egg Flip,
                     30


one vessel to tlie other until a fine wMte
froth is obtained. Half a pint of rum is
sometimes added, but it is then very intoxi
cating. Port wine is sometimes substituted
for white, hut is not considered so palatable.
This liquor should be drank when quite hot.
If the wine is poured boiling hot among the
eggs, the mixture will become curdled.

               BEER FLIP.

  Beer Flip is made in the same way and
with the same materials as the preceding,
excepting that one quart of strong home
brewed beer is substituted for the wine; a
glass of gin is sometimes added, but it is
better without it. This beverage is generally
given to servants at Christmas, and other
high festivals of our Church.

             RHMFUSTIAN".

  The yollm of twelve eggs, one quart of
strong beer, one bottle of white wine, half a
                            31


pint of gin, a grated nutmeg, tlie juice from
tlie peeling of a lemon, a small quantity of
cinnamon, and sufficient sugar to sweeten
it; prepared precisely in the same way as
Rum Booze.

  Such is the intoxicating property of this
liquor, that none hut hard drinlcers will ven
ture to regale themselves with it a.second
time.




   THE OXFORD GRACE GDP.

        Tlie grace cup scrv'd, the clotli away,
        Jove thought it time to shew his play.
                                            Prior.



  The ancient Grace Cup was a vessel pro
portioned to the number of the company
assembled, which went round the table, the
guests drinking out of the same cup one
after another. Virgil describes something
                          32


like it, when, speaking of the entertainment
Queen Dido gave to -iEneas, he says

   Postqnam prima quies epulis, mensseque remotce ;
   Crateras magnoa statuunt, et vina coronant.

   Hie rogina gravem gemmis auroque poposcit
   Implevitique mero pateram; * • • »
   •   *   • •     *   • • • • • •

   Primaque, litato, sumtno tenus attigit ore.
   Turn Bitite dedit increpitans ; ille impiger hansit
   Spumantem pateram, et pleno se proluit auro.
   Post allii proceres.


  It has been the custom from time imme
morial, at the civic feasts in Oxford, for
the Grace Cup to he introduced before the
removal of the cloth, when the Mayor re
ceives the Cup standing; his right and left
hand guests also rise from their seats while
he gives a toast, which since the Deformation
has been, "Church and King." The Cup is
then handed round the table, no one pre
suming to apply his lips to it until two
persons have risen from their seats. The
origin of this custom is ascribed by our
                              33


 antiquaries to tlie practice of the Danes
 heretofore in England, -n'ho frequently used
 to stab or cut the throats of the natives
 while they were drinking, the persons stand
 ing being the sureties that the one holding
 the cup should come to no harm while par
 taking of it.

                         Mecipe.

    Extract the juice from the peeling of a
lemon,and cut the remainder into thin slices;
 put it into a jug or bowl, and pour on it three
 half-pints of strong home-brewed beer' and a
 bottle of mountain wine; grate a nutmeg
into it; sweeten it to your taste; stir it tiU.
the sugar is dissolved, and then add three

'Home-brewed beer is her-e recommended, as some com
mon brewers and publicans mix witb tbeir beer sulphuric
acid, copperas, tobacco, capsicum, coculus Indicus, corri-
ander seeds, grains of paradise, allum, and burnt sugar.
  It is a well-known fact, that at this period there are
wandering from town to town persons who call themselves
"Breieers' Druggists" who offer for sale a. composition
                                            D
                           34


or four slices of bread toasted brown. Let
it stand two hours, and then strain it off
into the Grace Cup.


  CIDER CUP, OR COLD TAISTKARD.
  Cold Tankard has for a very long period
been a favourite summer drink not only
within the walls of the Colleges, but also
at Taverns situated near the banks of the
river, and which are much resorted to by
the junior members of the University who

wMcli m a short time will make weak hcer strong, even
to intoxication.

  Cooulus Indicus, the pulp of Cocuhis stiberoms. Im
ported from the East Indies in considerable quantities, for
the purpose, it is said, of giving beer and spirits an intoxi
cating quality at less expense than by genuine materials.
The use of it is prohibited by law. JRennie's Pharm.
  Grains of Paradise. In the slang of brewers' druggists
termed G.P. The seeds of the Amomum grana Paradisi.
They are seldom used in medicine, but are extensively
employed to conceal adulterations by giving false strength
to spirits, wine, beer, and vinegar. Ibid.
                                                      1


                          35


are fond of aquatic excursions. Many are
tlie sonnets and songs wliicli have been
made upon the fair waiting women who
almost invariably prepare this cooling and
wholesome beverage. The following speci
men, written some years since, probably
will not prove unacceptable to the reader.


   Say—lives far or near a damsel so fair,
   So cheerful, so blithe, or so merry?
        On earth I can't find
        A nymph half so kind
   As Doris, the Maid of the Ferry.


   My rivals may boast, and coxcomhs may toast
   Her in old port, madeira, or sherry;
       To them I can prove,
       They'll ne'er gain the love
   Of Doris, the Maid of the Ferry.

   She looks up the oars, and the old tavern scores
   And now and then cleans out a wherry ;
       The sails she can mend.
       And the parlour attend.
   For obliging's the Maid of the Feriy.
                            36

    She serves at the bar, and excels all by fai-
    In making Cold Tankard of perry ;
        How sweet then at eve,
         With ber leave to receive
    A kiss from the Maid of the Ferry.


    Both early and late ber apparel is neat,
    Yet for finery she cares not a berry;
        She's comely and gay.
        And now I'll away
    To Doris, the Maid of the Feiry.




                         Recipe.

  Extract the juice from the peeling of one
lemon, by rubbing loaf sugar on it; cut two
lemons into thin slices ; the rind of one lemon
cut thin, a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar,
and half a pint of brandy. Put the whole
into a large jug, mix it well together, and
pour one quart of cold spring water upon it.
Grate a nutmeg into it, add one pint of white
wine and a bottle of cider, sweeten it to your
taste with capillaire or sugar, put a hand-
ful of balm and the same quantity of borage
in flower (Jborago officitialis) into it, stalk
downwards. Then put the jug containing
this liquor into a tub of ice, and when it
has remained there one hour it is flt for
use. The balm and borage should be fresh
gathered.

                   PERET CUP.
   Merely substitute perry for cider.

  ^ "Tlie sprigs of borage in rvine are of known virtue, to
revive the hj'pochondriac, and cheer the hard student."
JSvelyn*s Acetarin, p. 13. "Borage is one of the four
cordial flowers; it comforts tlie heart, cheers melancholy,
and revives the fainting spirits." Salmon's Household
Companion, London, 1710. "Borage has the credit of
being a great cordial; throwing it into cold wine is hotter
than all the medicinal preparations." Sir John Hill, M.D.
 "The leaves, flowers, and seed of horagc, all or any of
them, are good to expel pensiveness and melancholy." The
Hnglish Physician.
  "Balm is very good to help digestion and open obstruc
tions of the brain, and hath so much purging quality in it,
as to expel those melancholy vapours from the spirits and
blood which are in the heart and arteries, although it can
not do so in other parts of the body." Ibid.
                        38


                 BEER CUP.
   One quart of strong teer instead of cider
or perry. The other ingredients the same
as in Cider Cup.

                  RED CUP.
  Use one pint of port wine instead of white;
sometimes two glasses of red currant jelly are
added. In other respects the same as Cider
Cup, excepting that warm water is used to
dissolve the jeUy.



  THE WASSAIL BOWL, OR SWIG,

 "Sir, quod he, AVatsayll, for never days of your lyf
ne dronk ye of such a cuppc." Ancient 3fS,

  The Wassail Bowl, or Swig, as it is termed
at Jesus College in this University, is of con
siderable antiquity, and up to this time is a
great favourite with the sons of Cambria ; so
much so, indeed, that a party seldom dines
or sups in that College without its forming
                           39


a part of their entertainment.® On the festi
val of St. David, Cambria's tutelary Paint,
an immense silver gilt howl, containing ten
gallons, and which was presented to Jesus
College by Sir Watkin "W". Wjmne in 1732,
is filled with Swig, and handed round to
those who are invited on that occasion to
sit at their festive and hospitable board.
The following is the method of manu
facturing it at that College.
                Recipe.
  Put into a bowl half a pound of Lisbon
sugar; pour on it one pint of warm beer;
grate a nutmeg and some ginger into it:
add four glasses of sherry and five additional
pints of beer; stir it well; sweeten it to
your taste : let it stand covered up two or
three hours, then put three or four slices of
bread cut thin and toasted brown into it,
and it is fit for use. Sometimes a couple or
'Swig was formerly almost exclusively confined to Jesus
College; it is now, liowever, a great favourite throughout
the University.
                          40


tkree slices of lemon, and a few lumps of
loaf sugar rubbed on the peeling of a lemon,
are introduced.
  Bottle tbis mixture, and in a few days it
may be drank in a state of ejffervescence.

  Tbe "Wassail Bowl, or Wassail Cup, was
formerly prepared in nearly tbe same way
as at present, excepting that roasted apples,
or crab apples, were introduced instead of
toasted bread. And up to tbe present period
in some parts of tbe kingdom, tbere are
persons wbo keep up tbe ancient custom
of regaling tbeir friends" and neigbbom's
on Cbristmas-eve and Twelftb-eve with a
Wassail Bowl, witb roasted apples floating
in it, and wbicb is generally usbered in witb
great ceremony. Sbakspere alludes to tbe
"Wassail Bowl wben be says, in bis Mid
summer Nigbt's Dream,
   Sometiines lurk I in a gossip's bowl,
   In very likeness of a roasted crab,
   And when she drinks, against her lips I boh,
   And on her wither'd dewlap pour the ale.
                      41


             BEOWN BETTY.

  Brown Betty does not differ materially
from the preceding; it is said to have
derived its name from one of the fair sex,
jrcleped a bedmaker, who invariably recom
mended the mixture so named as a never
failing panacea.

                    Recipe.
  Dissolve a quarter of'a pound of brown
sugar in one pint of water, slice a lemon into
it, let it stand a quarter of an hour,then add
a small quantity of pulverised cloves and
cinnamon, half a pint of brandy, and one
quart of good strong ale; stir it well to
gether, put a couple of slices of toasted
bread into it, grate some nutmeg and ginger
on the toast, and it is fit for use. Ice it well
and it will prove a good summer, warm it
and it "will become a pleasant winter bever
age. It is drank chiefly at dinner.
                             42


                 LAMBS WOOL.

     Next crowne the bowle full
     With gentle Lambs wooll,                      •
        Adde sugar, nutmeg, and ginger,    •
    With store of ale too,
    And thus ye must doe
         To make the Wassailo a swinger.
          HerricVs Ticelfth Night, or King and Queen.



  Lambs Wool is merely a variety of the
Wassail Bowl, and although not common in
Oxford, is a great favourite in some parts of
England. The following is the origin of
the term Lambs Wool, as applied to this
particular beverage. Formerly the first day
of November was dedicated to the Angel
presiding over fruits, seeds, &c., and was
therefore named La mas uhal, that is. The
day of the apple fruit, and being pronounced
lamasool, our country people have corrupted
it to Lambs Wool.'*


* See Col. Valiancy, Collect, de Eeb. Hibern. iii. 441.
                       43


  Lambs Wool was anciently often met witb
in Ireland,® but is now rarely heard of in
that country, having been entirely super
seded by the more intoxicating liquor called
Whiskey.

                    Recipe.
  Mix the pulp of half a dozen roasted
apples with some raw Sugar, a grated nut
meg, and a small quantity of ginger. Add
one quart of strong ale made moderately
warm. Stir the whole well together, and,
if sweet enough, it is fit for use.

  This mixture is sometimes served up in a
bowl, with sweet cakes floating in it.
            Brand's Popul. Antiq. i. 321.




                          Ill'II
                           44


              BEASE]S"OSE ALE.

      Hie dies, anno redountc festus.
      Corticom astrictum pice dimovebit
      Ampbora:.
                   •            Horat. lib. iii. od. 8


                              When the year
      Eevolving bids this festal morn appear,
      We'll pierce a cask .with mellow juice replete.
                                          Francis.




   From the foundation of Brasenose College
to the present time a custom has prevailed,
of introducing into the refectory on Shrove
Tuesday, immediately after dinner, what is
denominated Brasenose Ale, but which in
fact is a species of Lambs Wool.
   Verses in praise of Brasenose Ale are an
nually written by one of the Undergraduates
and a copy of them sent to every resident
member of the College.
  The following Stanzas are extracted from
a copy of recent date.
                             45


     Sliall all ouv singing now be o'er,
       Since Cbristmas carols fail ?
     No! let us shout one stanza more
          In praise of Brasenose Ale!

         A fig for Horace and his juice,
          Faleniian and Massic;
     Far hotter drink can wo produce,
           Though 'tis not quite so Classic.

     Not all the liquors Homo e'er had
           Can heat our matchless Beer;
     Apicius' self had gone stark mad.
           To taste such noble cheer.




  Brasenose Verses are not always confined
to tlie mere praise of the Beer, for sometimes
a particular circumstance or event which
may have happened during the past year is
alluded to, as will he seen by the following
lines.

     See where yon goblet beaming
       Invites the wistful eye!
     "Whose smile luxuriant gleaming
       Proclaims a fragrance nigh I
                     46


While gladsome spirits thronging round
  To taste its richness press ;
And fair the scene, and loud the sound
  Of mirth and happiness!


Bright antidote of sorrow !
  Some kind enlivening ray
From thee we fain would borrow,
  To warm our grateful lay:
For oft I ween thy kindling glance
  The drooping heart hath cheered:
Poured round the soul a joyous trance.
  And visions gay upreared.


Full many a day of gladness
  Hath hailed the welcome cheer ;
Full many a thought of sadness
  Hath fled, transported, here.
And still, through years of fleeting change,
  Each passing youthful train,
Ere it might tempt the wide world's range.
  Hath passed the cup to drain.


The sky that glows above us
  Remains unchanged the same:
But will the friends that love us
  Preserve a changeless flame?
                      47


 Forgetfulneas, that chilling spell,
    Can freeze the ardent breast;
  And those rvaithought had loved us well,
   "Will scorn us when distressed.



  While warm affection glowing
    Bids mean suspicion fly,
  Onr youthful hearts bestowing
    On most that hover nigh—
When outward promise seems sincere.
    And lasting all our joj'—
  Yet cherished hope, and feelings dear
    XJnkincbiess may destroy.


  The word of coldness spoken
    Inflicts a bitter smart;
  The tie of friendship broken
    Torments the aching heart:
  But sadder far the hopeless pain,               Jl
    When death's remorseless hand             '■ ■ t
  Hath all untimely snapped in twain
    Affection's golden band.
                                             -1


  But, though our friends forget us.
    Let one kind thought restore
  Their names, who once have met us,
    But ne'er shall meet us more.
                             48

         And if, percbance, by memoi-y's light
           Departed friends we view,
         Ob! let that memory still be bright.
          And may our hearts be tnie!


         When last the cup was florving.
          One sat within our Hall,
        "Whose eye with kindness glowing
          Inspire the festival.®
        But now that bright and honoured head
          Bests in the darkling tomb ;
        And ours it is to mourn the dead
          In unavailing gloom.


       Forgive the Muse, if, erring.
          He drop a plaintful word:
       If, thoughts of sorrow stirring.
          He strike too harsh a chord.
       "We would not mar the festive scene.
         Nor give a wanton pain:
       And, though her strains have saddening been,
         She bids you smile again.




  ® This passage aUudes to the demise of an Under
graduate, who at the preceding meeting had, by his wit
and humour, contributed much to the hilarity of his
fellow-students.
                              49


         In banquet-hall 'tis meetest
           To raise the echoing laugh:
         In jocund hour 'tis sweetest
           The bowl's deep flood to quaff.
         Aye! let your mirth be loud and long!
           Let voice and heart be free !
         And 'midst the din of shout and song
           Let all feast merrily!


         tio forth, my sons, to glory!
           Go elimb the steeps of fame!
         Go! and in future story
           Enrol your shining name!
         hlay no darlc cloud obscure your sky j •
           No fear your soul dismay;
         Nor keener sorrow dim your eye
           Than claims the tear to-day!



                           Recipe.
       Tliree quarts of ale, sweetened with re
  fined sugar finely pulverised, and served up
' in a bowl with sis roasted apples floating iu
 it.




                                                    I
                           50


                   METHEGLIN.

  Non Vitis, sed Apis succum tilii mitto bibendnm,
  Quem legimus Bardos olim potasse Britannos.
  Qualibet in bacca Vitis Mcgera latescit,
  Qualibet in gutta Mcllis Aglaia nitot.

  Tlie juice of Bees, not Baccbus, liere behold,
  Which British Bards were wont to quaff of old ;
  The berries of the grape with Furies swell.
  But in the honej'comb the Graces dwell.
                                             Iloivell.



  Metlieglin is probably derived from the
"Welch Meodyglyii,^ a medical drink, and
was once the natural beverage of a great
part of this country, and according to some
authors is the HydromeP of the ancients.
Howell,® in one of his familiar letters, on

 'Jleddyglyn. Minshetc.
'   In fevers, the ailments prescribed by Hippocrates were
ptisans and cream of barley, hydromcl, that is, honey and
water, where there was no tendency to delirium.
                                             Arbuthnot.
'James Howoll, Clerk of the Privy Council in 1640,
and sometime Fellow of Jesus College in this University.
                     51


presenting a friend with, a bottle of Metheg-
lin, thus speaks of it; "Neither Sir John
"Barleycorn or Bacchus had anything to do
"with it, but it is the pure juice of the bee,
"the laborious bee, and the king of insects ;
"the Druids and old British Bards were
"wont to take a carouse hereof before they
"entered into their speculations. But this
"drink always carries a kind of state with it,
"for it must be attended with a brown toast;
"nor will it admit but of one good draught,
"and that in the morning ; if more, it will
"keep a humming in the head, and so speak
"too much of the house it comes from, I
"mean, the hive."
   Indeed almost every other author who has
 written on the subject afBrms, that before
the introduction of AsTiculture into this
                          O

island, honey diluted with water (i. e. Me-
theglin) was the only strong drink known
to, and was a great favourite among, the
 Ancient Britons.
   Metheglin is usually divided into the
 Simple and the Vinous. Simple Metheglin
                       52


 is that which has not been fermented, and
 the Vinous is that which has obtained a
 spirit by fermentation.
           VINOTJS METHEGLIN".
   Take as much new honey separated from
 the comb which, when well mixed with
 water, will he of such a consistency as to
 bear an egg; boil this liquor for one hour;
 let it stand covered up till the next morning,
 and, if it is then quite cold, put it into a
cask. To every fifteen gallons add pulverized
ginger, mace, cinnamon, and cloves, of each
an ounce. To promote fermentation, put in
to the bunghole two table-spoonsful of yeast.
When it has done working stop it up, and
in a month or six weeks it will be in a fit
state to be drawn ofi" into bottles.
  Or put twenty-eight pounds of honey into
a nine-gallon cask with as much boiling
water as will fill it, and fermenting it with
yeast. Or boil the honey with the water, to
which a littte hops or ginger may be added,
ferment, and bottle for use.
                          53


       MEAD AND BRAGGON, OR
             BRAGGET,
Do not differ materially from MethegKn;they
are indeed varieties of the same.              Howell
says, "they differ in strength according to
"the three degrees of comparison, Metheglin
"being strong in the superalative, and if
"taken immoderately doth stupify more than
"any other liqour."
  The following are the methods of prepar
ing them.
   Mix the whites of six esss with twelve
                                   OO

gallons of spring water; add twenty pounds
of the best virgin honey and the peeling of
three lemons ; boil it an hour, and then put
into it some rosemary,^ cloves, mace, and
ginger; when it is quite cold, add a spoon
ful or two of yeast, tun it, and when it has
done working, stop it up close. In. a few
months bottle it off, and deposit it in a cellar
of cool temperature.
  * Tlie best boney known is tbat of Narbonne in France,
where rosemary abounds, it having a very strong flavor of
that plant.
                         54


  Some prefer it without the spices, others
without lemons.


  To each gallon of water add four pounds
of the whitest, purest, and best tasted honey,
and the peeling of two lemons ; boil it half
an hour.    Scum it when cold.          Put it into
a cask, add some yeast to it; when it has
done fermenting, stop the cask up close, and
at the expiration of eight months bottle olf.

  If this liquor is properly kept, the taste of
the honey will go off, and it will resemble
Tokay both in strength and flavour.




                    THE END.




           E. IT. JIORRI?, PKIXTER, OXFORU.
           ■ 'bu^rv "■ .




                      u-'.f.

i'l'i *1
          GRATIS, ON APPLICATION,
                    A    CATALOGUE
                              OF


HEW AND SECOND-HAND BOOKS,
                ON SALE, EO.R CASH, HY
           SLATTEB AND                    ROSE,
    AT 2 and 3, HIGH HTKEET, OXl-OKD.

Vv'lierc Credit is taken, N'ew Hdcjks will be cliiuged at the
     lull PiiblislieJ Pi ices, and 10 [ler oei.t. uddecl oil
                    Secoad-Haad Books.

      BOOKS BOUGHT OH EXCHANGED.
   London Newapapci's and J'in iodiculs supplied with
                    punetualiip.
        STATIOTiTEIlY m EVERY VARIETY.


                   THE        OXFORD
  UNIVERSITY AND CITY GUIDE,
On a New Plan, with a DE.SCUIPTlUN of BLE.N HEIAI
and its Gau-fiiy of Paixij.ngs. A New Edition, with
Eueraviiigs and u Plan of O.xford.      Price 4s. in cloth.

                            THE
OXFORD UNIVERSITY CALENDAR,
       Publisiicd annnally.      Boards Cs., bound 7s.

                   THE OXFORD
SELECTION OF PSALMS & HYMNS,
    For the Use of J'arisb Cliaiclies. A New Edition.
                 Cloth Is. Od., bound 2s.




                                                       J
