     f




'I
                                                                         ^ 'lii' •
                                                                           ■4 •
                                                                               f;

                                                            . 1      I
                             t,                                   ' :l




! ■ /'
i              .
■ 'i J


y.         .




     1 ■-.

     ?'■;
     y--


                                          iw
                   i^'r




                             ',!) ;, •■
                                      :    /

                          ' ■ n ,
                                                •7'" *''•
 I
                                           *"1 < . - -■
V- .

                                                                                     .' *
         w




                       THE



 AMERICAN BAR-TENDER
                         OR




      THE ART AND AIYSTERY


                         or




  MIXING DRINKS,
                 TOGETHEE WITH


pBSERVATIONS ON THE C^ALITIES OP ^INES,
              <^ORS AND


               TO WinCII IS APPENDED



SEVERAL IIIJXOREI) TOASTS,
   rAxiaoxic, fieemex\<, tolixical, loteks',
               sroMXixa, exo.




    MANHATTAN PUBLISHING COMPANY.
                 Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1874, by
                           ADVAKCE PUBLISHING COMPANY,
                 in the office of the Libnrriau of Congress, at Washington.




I4*        . •




' *■ .t;            .< ^




                  Ma.,>.h                         o-o:,c:
      CONTENTS OF THE AMERICAN BAR-TENDER.


  Preface, -     -       -       -       -    -      -       -   -   -    C
  CocKTAiL-s—Brtindy, Fancy, Whiskey, Champagne, Gin,
        Japanese, Jersey,  . . . . . .                7
  Toddts—Apple, Braiuly, Whiskey,     . . . . B
 SiJNGS—Branily, Hot Whiskey, Gin, - . - .            I
 Flips—BranJy, Whiskey, Gin,      -        -   -  -   8
 Juleps—Mint, Brandy, Whiskey, Gin, . . .             8
 Smashes—Brandy, Gin, Whiskey, -       - . . . 9
 Cobblers—Sherry, Champagne, Catawba, . . .          10
 Fixes—Brandy, Whiskey, Gin,     . . . . . 10
 Sours-Brandy, Santa Crnz, Whi.skey, Egg, Gin,   .   10
 Punches—Brandy, Whiskey, Gin, Sherry, Claret, Saut.
       erne, Curacoa, . . . . . . .                  12
 Brandy Champerelle,        . . . . . . 13
 Tom AND Jerrx—Batter for ; How to Make, . . 13
 Knickerbocker,  . . . . . . . . 13
 Scotch Whiskey Skin, .              -       - ^ -       -       . .     13
 Stone Fence, . . . . . . . . . 73
Rliiiie Wine and Seltzer Water, . . . . .  n
Hot Spiced Rum,       - . - . - . . . 11
Straiohts- Brandy, Gin,      - . . - . . . l<
Stonewall, .    -    . .       - . . . . . ]|
Sh-wry and Egg,         . . . . . . . ]l
LEMoNADE--Plnin, Orgeat,                 -   .           . . . J1
Soda Cocktail.       .       .       .       .    .      .       . .     n
Rum and Sugar,  - - - - . . . . 11
Shandy Gaff, . . . . . . . . .  l-i
Porteree, . . . .   - . . . . . 1.7
Pousse Cafe, . . . . . . . . .  13
Aerated Waters—Soda, Aerated Chalybeate, Carbonat
     ed Lime, Lithia, Magnesian,Potas3, Seltzer; Gin-
     ger Beer, Sherbet, Siedletz Powders, Soda Water,
     Powders, Chalybeatcd Powders, - . 15, Itl, 17, 1"
                                             CuNTESTS.



                  Refeioep.ant Drattohts.—Lemon SUcrlict, Omngo Sbcrbot,
                         Aerated Lemonade, Magnesia Lemonade, Lemon
                         Syrup, Lemon Shrub,       -    -    -    -    - 8, ^9
                  Liqetiees, Coediaes, &c.—Arrack, Gentian Spirit, Gold-
                         ■wasser, Kummel, Chartreuse, Noyeau,       - 19, 20, 21
                  Imitations.—Ratafias, Cremes, Huilea,      .    .    . 21,22
                  SvRui'S,—To Color, To Filter, -     -    -    -    -    23,24
                  Imit.ated Liqeuees, &o.—SiTty-fivo Pifferent Kinds, 2G to 34
                  Riiteb Drinks.—Wine Bitters, Brandy Bitters, Essenco
                        of Bitters,      .    -    -      -     -    -          -   35, 30
                  Malt Liquors—Beer, Ale, Brewing, Ac. - - 37 38 39 40
                  Aeilated Beer—Ginger Beer, 7 kiud-s. Spruce Beer, 2 kinds,
                        IVhito Spruce Beer, Sarsaparilla Boer, Molasses
                        Beer, -      -    -     -   -     -    -     - 44, 42, 43
                  Refrigeration, Ac., -       -   -     -    -     -     44, 45, 40
                  Wines—French, German, Portuguese, and Spanish,
                                                                 46, 47, 48, 49, 50
                  Toasts—Politic.al, Soldiers and Sailors, Lovers, Patriotic,
                        Firemen's, Miscellaneous, Friendship, Sporting,
                                                       51, 65, 67, 70, 77, 80, 94, 96




' f   -V' '   .




                                                                         f ..       ,
       rKEFACE TO THE AJIERICAN CAE-TEXDER.



      The first object of tliis work is to toll ifiaiuly nnd
 accurately tbo best and favorite methods of concocting or
  mixing nil the various kinds of Popular, Eofrcsbiug and
 Delicious Drinks whicb a Bar-Tender may bo called upon
 at any moment to rrx for a Customer of taste.          In all
 cases the ingredients should bo of the best quality, and
 the "mixing" should bo executed with all that caro, rap
 idity and gracefulness, so cUaracteristio of that deservedly
 popular class—THE Axieuica:! Bau-Tendeks.        Those diroc-
tioiLS can bo relied upon as accurate; a,s they have been
thoroughly examined, revised and added to by Mr. E. A.
SnuAioNS, so long favorably known as having charge of
the Wine Department of FitENcn's fiimous Ilotcl, fronting
on City Hall Park.
    The portion of this work devoted to the subjects of
Wines, Liqtjoes and Cia.ins will also merit close attention
ns it is well considered and entirely reliable.



                   (■f- )
                                     I ,.




       fjfi                                 \ \




r»j' i-'U •■;- '
kIK'' .. -■• ';. -.




 u\.^ ■/■ ■', !, • ■.-. » ■ •■' .1
                                                                        ■A'-l''




          THE AMERICAN BAR TENDER.




                     1.     BHANDY COCK-TAIL.
    Ubk SoDi Glass.—3 dashe.s of gum syrup; 3 dashes of
 Boter's Bitters: 1 wine glass of brandy; 2 dashes of Curagoa.
 fill one-third full of ice, and stir with a spoon. Strain in a
 cock-tail glass.        Twist piece of lemon peel over the cook-tail
 and allow the peel to rest on edge of the glass.
               2.        FANCY brandy COCKTAIL.
   This drink is made the same as the Brandy Cock-Tail, ei-
 «ept that the edgo of the glass is moistened with lemon, and
 one side been dipped in fi ne .sugar.
                     3.     "WHISKEY COCK-TAIL.
   3 dashes of gum syrup; 2 dashes of Bokar's Bitters; 2 dashes
of Curagoa; one glass of whiskey. Fill one-third full of fine
ice. Stir with spoon, and strain in fancy wine glass; serving
lemon peel as in brandy cock-tail.
                    4. CHAMPAGNE COCKTAIL.
   1 bottle of wine to G large glasses; in each glass 1-2 tea spoon
full of sugar; I or 2 dashes of Boker's Bitters, 1 piece of lem
on peel; one piece of ice, and fill balance with wine. Half
pony of brandy in each glass. Stir with spoon and serve.
                          6.   GIN COCK-TAIL.
  3 dashes of gum syrup; 2 dashes of Boker's Bitters; 1 glass
of gin, 2 dashes of Curagoa. Arrange lemon peel same as for
gin cock-tail. Fill one-third full of fine ice. Stir with spoon;
strain in cock-tail glass.
                    6.     JAPANESE COCK-TAIL.
  1 table spoon full of orgeat syrup; 1-2 tea spoon full of
Boker's Bitters; 1 glass of brandy; 1 piece of lemon peel. Fill
the tumbler one-third with ice, and stir well with a spoon.
                     7.     JERSEY COCK-TAIL.
  1 tea spoon full of sugar; 2 dashes of Boker's Bitters.       Fil!
tumbler with cider, and nii.v well. Lemon peel on top.
             THE AilEBiOAN BAR-TENDEE ;
                                             /

                    8.    APPLE TODDY.
  Smixl Glajss.—2 pieces white loaf sugar; fill glass half full
of boiling water and dissolve sugar in same; 1 glass of cider
brandy; 1-2 of a baked apple.       Grate a little nutmeg on top.
                  9.     BE.4.NDY TODDY.
  1-2 tea spoonful of sugar, 1 table spoonful of water. 1 glass
of whiskey, 1 small lump of ice. Stir with a spoon. Nutmeg
on top.
  For Hot Brandy Toddy, omit the ico and use boiling water.
                  10.     V.'HISKEY TODDY.
  1-2 tea spoonful of sugar; 1 table .spoonful of water; 1 glass
of whiskey, 1 small lump of ice. Stir with a spoon. Nutmeg
on top.
                   11. BRANDY SLING.
  Small Gi,.iss.—The Brandy Sling is made the same way as
the Brandy Toddy, merely adding .small slice of lemon.
               12. HOT "WHISKEY SLING.
  2 lumps of loaf sugar; fill the tumbler one-third full of boil
ing water, and dissolve sugar. Wine glass of whiskey. Grate
a little nutmeg on top. Small slice of lemon.
                         13.    GIN SLING.
  The Gin Sling is made the same as the Whiskey Toddy.
                    14.        BRANDY FLIP.
  1 egg beaten very thin; 1 tea spoonful of sugar; 1 glass of
brandy. Mix with fine ico;strain in small glass. Nutmeg on top.
                   15.     WHISKEY FLIP.
  The Whiskey Flip is made the same as the Brandy Flip,
using Whiskey instead of Braudy.
                          16.    GIN FLIP.
  Tho Gin Flip is made the same as the Whiskey Flig, using
Gin instead of Whiskey.
                EGG OR SHERRY FLIP.
  Egg or Sherry Flip is made tho same as Brandy FJip, using
Slierry instead of Brandy.
                        17.' MINT JULEP.
  1 table spoonful of white sugar; 2 1-2 table spoonfuls of wa
ter; mix well with o spoon. Take 3 or 4 sprigs of fresh Mint,
and press them well in the sugar and water until the flavor of
tho mint i.s cxlr.ictud—add ono and a lailf glass of wlnskey.and
fill the glass with Cue shaved too, then draw out the sprig," of
                OK, HOW '10 MIX HIUNKS.                        f
mint and insert them in the ice ■nith the stcmB aowr^vaTd, so
that the green leaves will bo above in the shape of a bouquet,
arrange berries, and .small pieces of orange and pineapple on
top. Sprinkle sugar on top, and serve with straws.
                        18.t BK.^NDY JULEP.
  The BrandyMulep is made the same as the klint Julep, using
Brandy instead of Whiskey, and dashing with Jamaica Kum.
                   10.     AVHISKEY JULEP.
  The Whiskey Julep is made the same a-, the klint Julep.
                         20.   GIN JULEP.
  The Gin Julep is made the same as the Whiskey Julep, using
Gin instead of Whiskey.
                  21. BE.-i.NDY ,SMASH.
  Use Soda Glass.—1 tea spoonful of powdered sugar; 1 ten
spoonful of water; 3 sprigs of mint,extract flavor; 1 wine glassof
Brandy Fill tumbler half full of fine ice, and stir well with
spoon. Strain in fancy glass. Insert one sprig of mint, and
smaU piece of pineapple.
                         22.   GIN SMASH.
  The Gin Smash is made the same as the Brandy Smash,
Gin instead of Brandy.
                 23. WHISKEY SMASH.
  The Whiskey Smagh is made the same as the Gin Smash,
using Whiskey instead of Gin.
                  21.     SHERRY COBBLER.
  2 glasses of Sherry; 1 table spoonful of sugar, small piece
of lemon peel. Fill a tumbler with shaved ice, shake well and
ornament with berries. Slice pineapple and orange; dash with
port wine; put sprig of mint in centio. Place 2 straws m the
tumbler.
                25. CHAMPAGNE COBBLER.
  1 tea spoonful of sugar; 1 piece each of orange and lemon
peel. Fill the tumbler one-third with shaved ice, and fill the
balance with wine; ornament with berries.
                  26.     CATAWBA COBBLER.
  Use Soda Glass.—1-2 table spoonful of powdered sugar; fill
glass two-thirds with fine ice; balance with Catawba. Stir
well with spoon, and ornament with berries and fruit of the
■oASou.    Serve with straws.
    10             THE AMEEICAN BAE-TENDER;

                       27. HOCK COBBLEE.
      This drink is made the same as the Cutawba Cobbler. Using
    Hock instead of Catawba.
                 28. CLAEET COBBLER ; On PUNCH.
     This drink is made the same as the Catav.ba Cobbler. Using
    Claret IVine instead of Catawba.
                   29. SAUTERNE COBBLfER.
     The same as a Catawba Cobbler. Using Sauterne instead of
    Catawba.

                        30.    BRANDY FIX.
     1 tea spoonful of sugar, half a glass of water, quarter of a
lemon, 1 glass of whiskey. Fill the tumbler two-thirds full of
shaved ice. Stir with a spoon, and strain in small glass. Put
slice of orange or pine apple on top.
                       31. WHISKEY FIX.
     1 tea spoonful of suger, liulf a wine glass of water, quarter of
a lemon, 1 glass of v. hi 4:cy. Fill the tumbler two-thirds full of
shaved ice. Stir well with spoon, then strain in small glass.
                          82. GIN FIX.
     1 table spoonful of sugar, half a wine glass of water, quarter
of a lemon. 1 gUss of gin. Fill the tumbler two-thirds fuU of
shaved ice. Stir with spoon, and then strain in small glass.
                       33. BRANDY SOUR.
     The Brandy Sour is made the same as the Brandy Fix.
                    34. SiANTA CRUZ SOUR.
                        ™ade the same as the Brandy Sour.
Using St. Croix Rum instead of Brandy.
         Tin,-                "WHISKEY SOUR.
Using
Usinff Whiskey instead of Brandy.                ^ *^^6 Brandy Sour.
     -. , ,
     JtiiM of one lemon, 30. EGG SOUR,
                         1 table spoonful of powdered sugar,4
smaU lumps of ice 1 enr,        ov, i      n      fcwucrca e.-o .
on top. Imbibe throuS straw "'
*         r,. ^                         f'OTR.
Giu iuoa^l of W^kt
                OB, HOW TO HIX nBIHRS.                         11
                   38    BBANDT PUNCH.
  •Tiiico of linlf n b-.-wi ov largo lime, 1 wins glass of brandy,
1-4 wiuB-glass of Jamaica rum, 1 tablo spoonful of powdered
sugar. Fill glass with shaved ice, stir wsll with spoon, and
ornament with fruit iu seasou. Imbibe through straw.
                   39. WHISKEY PUNCH.
  The Whishoy Punch is made the same as the Brandy Punch.
Using Whiskey instead of brandy. Omitting the rum.
                        40. GIN PUNCH.
  The Gin Punch is made the same as the Whiskey Punch.
Using gin instead of whiskey.
                   41. SHEBBY PUNCH.
  2 glasses of sherry; 1 tablo spoonful of sugar; 1 slice of lem
on; 2 slices of orange. Fill tumbler with shaved ice, and or
nament with berries. I.ubibc through a straw.
                    42. CL.AKET PUNCH.
  1 tablo spooaful of sugar; 1 slice of lemon or half of a lime.
Fill the tumbler with fine ice, and then fill with claret. Stir
with spoon. Ornament with berries and fru'.t.
                  43. S.YUTEBNE PUNCH.
  The same as Claret Punch. Using sauterne instead of the
claret.

                    44. VANILLA. PUNCH.
  1 table spoonful of sugar; 1 glass of brandy; the juice of half
a lemon. Fill the tumbler with shaved ice. Stir with spoon.
Ornament with one slice of lemon, 1 of orange, 1 of pins apple.
Flavor with a few drops of vanilla extract.
                   45. CUB.ACOA PUNCH.
  1-2 tablo spoonful of sugar; 1 glass of brandy; 1-4 of a glass
of Jamaica rum; 1-2 a pony glass of Curaeoa;(he juice of h.alf
a lemon. Fill the tumbler with shaved ice. Stir with spoou.
Ornament with siraw.
  12           THE AMERICAN BAR-TENDER
                    46.   ROMAN PUNCH.
    1 table spoonful of sugar; 1 table spoonful of rasbperry syr-
 up; 1 table spoonful of Curagoa, half -wino glass of Jamaica
 rum; a Wmo glass of brandy; the juice of half a lemon. Fill
 the tumbler with shaved ice ; stir with spoon; dash with port
 iWiue, and ornament with fruits.
                     47. MILK PUNCH.
   1 table spoonful of sugar, 1 glass of cognac brandy, half a
 glass of Santa Cruz rum; one-fourth of a tumbler of icc. Shake
 well, and grate a little nutmeg on top,
                  48. HOT MILK PUNCH
   This Punch is made the same as the foregoing, with the ex-
 ception that hot milk is used and no ice,
49. NATIONAL GUARD SEVENTH REGIMENT PUNCH.
  1 table spoonful of sugar; the juice of half a lemon; 1 cl.iss
of lemon; 1 glass of Catawba wine. Flavor with manl,'
syrup. Fill the glass with ice. Mix thoroughly with a
 Ornament with fruit of sesaon.                           spoon.
                50. ST. CHARLES PUNCH.
  1 table spoonful of sugar; 1 glass of port wine- 1
brandy; the juice of one-fourth of a lemon. Fill the t°°ni°"
       .W.1        8.1,,1.1,.p„o„,                           '
                      51. EGG NOG.
  Hse Soda Tumbleh.—1 Raw Egg well beaten-1 w-
of BranOy; 1-2 wine-glass of Jamaica Rum;3 or 4 RMmlTn^
o ice, - table spoonful of powdered sugar; fill I, [
nutmeg on top, and serve with straws.
  .r,,.
  This ,  . , .13 made theHOT
        drink              sameEGG
                                as theNOG.
                                        Cold Egg Nog ah
except that you must use boiling mUk and no ice       ®
    l-a ghiss
  l ie   . of port wine; 1 tea spoonful of simar
                                SANGAREE.              Pn,
tumbler two-thirds full of ice, and shake well; slram i!f
glass, and grate nutmeg on top.
                                                           13
          oil, THE ART OF MIXING DIIINKS.
              64. BRANDY CHAMPERELLE
  Shaix SHE1.RY GI.A8S. Cue-third Brru.dy ;oue-third Bittors;
ono-tbird Curaeou. This is the groat French cafe drink.
          55. BATTER FOR TOM AND JERRY.
  VJSE Labgb Bom.-Take ti.o whites of 30
thick and white as snow. Beat the yolks seperately.      ^"
as liquid-then mil with powdered sugar nntil it becomes of the
consistency of dough. Then mix both together, and your bat-
ter is ready for use.
                   56. TOM AND JERRY..
  1 table spoonful of prepared batter; 1-2 glass Jamaica Rum^
1-2 glass St. Croixrum. Fill cup with boding water. Use two
cups to mix with, throwing from one to the other until y
have a nice foam. Sprinkle nutmeg on top, and serve.
                    67. KNICKERBOCKER.
  1-2 a lime or lemon;squeeze out the juice, and put rind and
juice in the glass, 2 table spoonfuls of raspberry syrup;1 gla^
St. Croixrum;1 tea spoonful of Curagoa;1 tea spoonful of su
gar. Fill with ice and then shake up well.
                        58. WUISKEY SKIN.
  2 lumps ofcut sugar; 1 1-2 wine glas.s of boiling water. Dis
solve the sugar, and add 1 wine glass of whiskey. Servo with
lemon peel on top.
                        59. STONE FENCE.
   i.xii4k,\ss.—1 glass of apple whiskey; 2 or 3 lumps of loe.
 Fill up the glass with sweet cider.
        60. RHINE WINE AND SELTZER WATER.
   Fill a Bar Glass half full of Rhine Wine and balance with
 Seltzer Water.
                        61. 'ALF AND 'ALF.

   Use AuEGnABS.—This drink is made by using half Porter
 and liulf Alo,
      11              the A-MEIUCAN BAR-TEN^DER;
                            62. HOT SPICED RUM.
         2 lumps of sugar, dissolred iu 1 1-2 wine glasses of boiling
      water; 1 glass of Jamaica rum; 1-2 tea spoonful of mixed spi
      cua.l piece of butter.

                          63. BR.AHDY straight.
        Put a piece of ice in tba tumbler, aud baud to your custom*
      er with the bottle of brandy.
                            61- GIN STRAIGHT.
        Same as Brandy Straight, substituting Gin for Brandy.
                             65. STONE WALL.
        1 glass of Cognac Brandy; one-third of a glass of fine ioa.
      Fill
        Ill up with plain
            UD With nloi'n soda.
                           or,.!..


                          66. SHERRY AND EGG.
        Shaui, Glass. 1 egg, i ghigg of Sherry.
                       67. SHERRY AND BITTERS.
       1 dash of Bitters; 1            of Sherry.
                              68. LEMONADE.

     Rlim.r                               1
                                          a lemon;!
                                            luiuuri,! 1-2   table spoonful
                                                      i-afl inoie Rpooillul of
                                                                            of
     with water. ShakTwe"   a" ornament with fruit
                      ^ell, aud

                             orgeat LEMONADE.
       A wine glass of Orgeat H
     the tumbler oue-third full
     Shake well,
     Shake well and
                 and ornament with'wries.' balance with water.

                      70. SODA COCKTAIL.
      1 tea spoonful of
                      ®"oUr, 2 dishes
     ice. Pillthetumbler'wi^h         ■ Bitters; 2 or 3 lumps of
                               Id '®' of
     lemon peel on top.                  '                 spoon j=nd put

                                     shandy gaff.
      Half Ale; tho oth.-^r ]..d.r qi.,
                                      iji.igcr Ale.




I-
                                                             15
          OR, THE ART OE MIXING DRINKS.
                         PORTEREE.
  -     spoonfull of powdered sug^r,
          , -1 1 1 1 - Pnrfpr
                                     1 table spoonful of water,
                               Stir witK spoon and serve with
1 bottle Philadelphia  Porter,    our w
nutuieg out-'p.
                       POUSSE CAFE.
  This drink is to be mixed with great care, so as to have each
cordial show scperately when placed before the customer.
 1 tea spoonful of gum syrup, 1-2 teaspoonful
    1w tea
       1       f ^    Mnri^chino,
                               tJa1spoonful
                                    tea spoouful  of Curagoa,
                                             of Kummel.  2 tea
1 tea                            Brandv. Each cordial to be drop-
spoonfuls of the best Uognac ui           .. ,   .
ped from the end of a spoon to prevent intermingling.




  lEElTED WiTEBS. SHEEBETB. a=0.
                          SODA "WATER
    And
    i j other
          lu Aerated                       request during
               A terl Draushts owe their effervescence      hot
                                                       to carb-
  OHIO aid gas     y           ^ feverish condition of the hu-
  weather to allay                    ^^^ated. Mineral waters
  rS'irS
  sulphurous.
                  aerated GHAL"n3EATE WATER
      Contains pro-sulphate of iron, and bicarbonate of potasca




                          ..it
    16               the AMERICAN BAR-TENDER,


   equal tonic propeaie.srrhriti"til

   fPuiMof carbouate''ofT               Z'^'"''          eonlaininR 8 or 10
   tlio bony structure.                       administered to strengthen
              ,.                LITHIA ivater
  this                                                                          ''
  plaints.                      popular, being useful in calcnlous coni-
    T<. .,c„f
        useful ■ ini(iif>Acfir»ri
              ,in ■ . ^i^^nesian  f» v, • Boater
  bonate of magnesia ff' '                                          °1 ear-
 sia.                      " an agreeable mode of taking magne

    ts a c^i »•                POTASS WATER
 aerated with "viLted''''k""'''®
              cashed carbonic acid ga.s.
   Is prone 1 - .          •           WATER
 'li.stilled watM^                 '^'■ya'aUized carbonate of soda, in
 the purity of which i,                           carbonic acid gas, upon
 ponds. MTien emnl                         ol Iliia article mainly de-
 to obtain this article plr"'                         " l^'shly important
Is carbonate of soda                    WATER
   [In orde t          '                           carbonate of magnesia.
necessary to Usa                            properly, it is absolutely
and the water must                    aerating and bottling machine,
Ms, of the purest quality'^'!!         ^'"^I'onic acid gas and chemic-
and specially prepared ] '                                      excellent
  Can be                                    LEMONADE
soda-water tumbler • and
                     '"^1 srT
                          filled^up with aerated
                                          S'uger, water.
                                                  or lemon, in a




                                                                            \


                                                                            I
                                                             17
              OB, THE ABT OF MIXING DKINK&

  Various mineral waters are in great request— Seltzer pre-emi-
neutly • this ia sometimes used eitliei as a beverage by itself,
or miie'd with wine or brandy. It is sparldiug and clear and
of a very slightly acidulated taste ; and it is prescribed more
over by the medical fraternity for many disorders, au.di as
indigestion, &o. It contains chloride of sodium, bicarbonate
of lime, soda and magnesia, carbonic acid and a small quanti
ty of iron,
                 EFFEEVESCENT DKAXJGHT.
  Carbonate of potass 80 grains, pulverized citric acid 17
grains Keep sepcrate. When required for use, add 1 drop
essence of lemon. Dissolve in seperate tumblers, mix, and
driuk while effervescing.
              EFFEEVESCENT DEAUGHT, No. 2.
  Bicarbonate of potash in solution 1 scruple, fresh lemon
juice, cleared, 4 drachms, water 1 oz.
                            SHEEBET.
  Powdered white sugar 1 lb., carbonate of soda 2 oz., tartario
aciddoz., essence of lemon 1 drachm, mix well with a tea
spoonful of the powder a tumbler of cold water. Very refresh
ing.
                   A SEIDLITZ POWDEE.
  Eochelle salt 3 drachms, carbonate of soda 25 grains, tartaric
acid 20 grains. Mix the salts and soda in a blue paper, with
the acid in a white paper. This is sufficient for 1-2 a pint of
water.
                    SEIDLITZ POWDEES.
  Eoohelle salts 3 oz., carbonate of soda 1 oz. Mix, and put 2
drachms and 2 scruples each in a blue paper, tartario acid i
drachm, in each corresponding white paper.
                 SODA-WATEE POWDEES.
   Bicarbonate of soda 30 grains, in a blue paper, citric acid
24 grains, in a white paper. Mix each seperately in nearly half
a tumbler of water. Pour tho acid solution on the soda. Dripk
iiQinediately.
  18               THE AMERICAN BAR-TENDER;

                              CHALTBEATED.
       y addin^ 1 grairi proto-sulphato of iron to the acid, it be*
  comes a refreshing tonic.

                       Refrigerent draught.
                        ^ scruple,
       1 o nutmeg 1-2 drachm,     syrupwater
                              distilled of orange peel 1 drachm,
                                             12 drachms,  1 table
 'P n u of lemon-juice. Mix, and drink while effervescing,
                         lemon sherbet.
 91      rac ms. 3 lbs, carbonate
                   Mix three      of soda
                             drachms      1 lb.,blue
                                       in each   essence of lemon
                                                     paper.  Make
 M^^ny correispouding powders of 1-2 drachm of tartaric acid
                        ORANGE SHERBET.

 drZ^'ir^^ together 1 lb. of pounded sugar, 2 drops of neroli,6
 if rfnn-             orange peel,
      1 'red, with carbonate       1-2 oz. of citric acid. Aerata
                             of soda.
                       aerated lemonade.
boMinr^ ^                ^                            ®yrup, fill at the
diluted o f        ®         aerated water. Some use a mixture of
is most T          essence of lemon, and sugar; but the syrup
is most refreshing and palatable.
                    magnesian lemonade.
erains^^M^'"^-             grains,
grams. Mix in tumbler of cold wster.carbonate of magnesia
                                      A pleasant saline. 12
                   magnesian LEMONADE.
ic a^d L^o7                   ^ oz., bicarbonate of soda 1 oz., tartar-
bottle for use.'               'oaf sugar V2 oz. Put into a dry
      .                lpmon syrup.
  Oitric acid 1 1-2 druni,
4 oz., cold water! pint,                  o^ 'emPh 10 drops, sugar
           OE, THE AET OF MIXING DEINKS.

                   LEMON SYEUP, No. 2.
  Citric acid 2 1-2 oz., distilled water, 2 1-2 oz., tincture of
lemon peel 5 1-2 drachms; syrup 3 pints.       Dissolve the acid
and lugar in the water, add the tincture.
                       LEMON SHEUB.
  Juice of 12 lemons thin rind o 2, 1 lb. of loaf sugar, whites
of 2 eggs well whisked, pint of water, 1-2 pint of rum, 1-2 pint
of brandy. Strain when required.




         LIQUEE.S, COEDIALS, &C.

                            AEE.t.CK.
  This is the name applied to all the spirits made in the East
Indies. That which flows from the coaco-nut tree, and called
toddy, is the best—the arrack made from rice and other sub
stances is very inferior. Arrack is a clear spirit, and, when
well aged, is peculiarly good.
                      GENTIAN SPIEIT.
  This is much used by the mountaineers ef Switzerland—it is
a bitter spirit distilled from gentian root.
  There are various Alcoholic productions which, although
ranking as liqueurs or cordials, are very strong and seductive—
Buch as Kirscbw"sser, Maraschino, Goldwasscr, Noyeau, and
20             THE AMEEIOAN BAB-TENDEE.

many others, of which a description will be given. The differ-
ence between Kirschwasser (cherry-water) and Maraschino
(both being spirits distilled from the cherry, which fruit-is re
markable for the number of favorite beverages it produces) is
this: Kii-sch is distilled from bruised cherries, and is a pure
spirit, while Maraschino is distilled from the pulp of the cher.
ries, mixed with honey; honey is also added to the spirit after
distillation. The best Marachino is made from the Marasca
cherry, and is named do Zara, Imitation Maraschino is made
by sweetening and flavoring Kirschwasser.
  Kirschwasser is a favorite drink with the Swiss and Germans.
When this spirit is of good age, it is much pleasanter to the
taste than whoa new.
                         GOLDWASSER.
  This liqueur derives its name from pieces of gold leaf floating
in it. It is made principally in Dantzic, and is rectified with
cinnamon, aniseed, and other aromatics.
                          KUMMEL
  Ib the favorite liqueur of Russia ; the best is made at Weis-
Benchein, in Esthonia.
                         CHARTREUSE.
 This is a pleasant stomachic liqueur made by the monks of the
 rand Chartreuse, near Grenoble. There are no less than four
varieties of this liqueur :a pure spirit, which is of a clear light
green, and the bottle is incased in a turned wooden case—a
ig' giccu, which is sweet and strong—an amber, which is not
BO sweet—and the white port.
                           NOYEAU.

F ^'l       ^^°^n
             India liqueur, of which
                    Island of        the best
                               Martinique,    comesgood
                                           requires from ago,
                                                          the
 emg much sought after, it is both scarce and expensive.
  And
- om 0       otherDonuioxk.
                             CURACOA,
                  compound liquouts, are mostly importations
                            The delicious  Copenhagen  Chep
            OiJ, THE AET OF MIXING DEINKS.                    tl


cy Brandy, is made from tlia tmall black wild cberrioa bo plen
tiful in Norway.
  These liqueurs and other exquisite concoctions are well
known to the connoisseur, who, as ha passes the ambrosial
fluid over his tongue (knowing that such delicious conceptions
should bo sipped, not bolted), fully appreciates the exquisite
pleasum his palate experiences as each peculiar and delicate
flavor is brought out.
  Eor general purposes, the use of liqueurs is much abridged
by reason of their excessive cost ; yet there are very many that
can be successfully imitated.
                         IMITATIONS.
  These imitations, may become, by judicious treatment and
age, equal to the elaborate foreign production, at about one-
third the cost.
  In making liqueurs, it is highly important to employ the ve
ry best materials.
  IliO French liqueur-makers, who stand pre-eminsnt for their
delicious cordials, only ompiloy the host materials.
  They also distinguish three qualities of comiiounds, viz:
                          K.ATAFIAS,

  Or simple liqueurs, as Noyeau, Anisette Water,&o., in which
tho spirit, sugar, and aromatic are in minute quantities.
                         THE CEEMES,
  Or such choice liqueum as Maraschino, Dantzic, Goldwater,
&o.
                     THE OILS (HUILES),
  As fine liqueurs, containing a more syrupy consistence, as
Curaqoa, Anisette. Bordeaux, Ac.
  There are two modes of making liqueurs, viz; by infusion
and distillation.
  Most of them can be made by careful and judicious infusion,
quite a.s well as by tho tedious process of distillation.
  For it is only when some objectionable flavor is present, in
S2              THE AlIEEICAN BAR-TENDER.

tlie nature of an essential oil, that distillation i.s positively ne
cessary.
  In making liqueurs, it is quite requisite to use great care and
cleanliness throughout the operation, the principal materials
used being clean spirit, distilled water, and pure white sugar.
The neglect of either of these requisites will result in failure to
produce a good article.
  The next, and a most important essential, is to guard against
msing too much flavoring matter, or the injudicious comhiua-
tion of discordant flavors.
  The inexperienced liqueur-maker being apt to underrate the
power of some of the aromatics or essential oils.
  It is therefore better to use a little less than a little more, for
the want can easily be supplied by the addition of any extra
flavor required.
  If the compound is cloudy, do not use water, but a little
spirit ; or clarify it.
  Never use any other, except so directed, than pure rectified
spirit of wine.
  Gin, above all, should be avoided, on account of its pervad
ing flavor.
  If the spirit of wine is too strong, reduce to the strength de
sired with filtered soft water.
  Trebly-refined sugars should always be used.
  In making syrup for liqueurs, use one pound of sugar to one
pint of water, brought to the boil, skimmed, and when cool,
add a very little spirit.
  Never add the spirit while the liquor is hot.
  Only use the outer peel of any of the citrous order—the pith
being worse than useless.
  The best mode to obtain the ambrosial ei.sence of oranges,
lemons, &c., is to rub the outer rind, (free from specs), with a
piece o sugar, scraping the essence from the lump as it re
quires , iis sugared essence constitutes the oloo-saccharum of
hquor-makera and coufeoUoaers.
                                                                        y,




          OB, THE ABT OF SHXING DBINKS.                        W

  In somo liqueurs the arometics should be mixed first 'with
the syrup ; iu others, the sugar dissolved in an infusion of fiav-
ory substance should be mixed with the spirit.
                         MACEBATION
  Is the immersion of any substance in spirit or any othor liq
uid, for a certain time, the liquid should be just warm, of a
blood heat.
                        A DECOCTION
  Is simply the boiling of the ingredients in a vessel of -svater,
set in a saucepan, filled with boiling water, the lid being occa-
sionally raised.




                                                                     -.553


                   8YBHPS, &0


                          CAPILLAIBE
  (Proper)is made by infusing 2 oz. of the maidenhair fern in
i i.2 pint of boiling water, and 2 lbs. of loaf sugar, which pour
while boiling hot on 2 oz. more of the fern ; in 10 hours strain
clear.
                    TO CLABIFY SYEUPS.
  Beat up the syrup cold with white of eggs ; heat; r«mov„
scum when clear     while hot strain#
 24           THE AMEEICAN BAR TENDER;

                     FOR FILTERING
    Dae tammy or other proper subsianeo ; if paper is require^
 the best Russian is preferable to any other.
                         TO COLOR.
  For green, use parsley or spinach leaves, digested in spirit,
for violet, mix blue and red together ; for green, mix blue and
yellow ; for red, use cochineal or Brazil wood ; for blue, use
indigo or Prussian blue ; for yellow, fawn or amber, use tinc
ture of saffron, or caramel; that is burnt sugar.
                           SUGAR.
  This useful article is found more or less in every vegetable
substance. It is extracted most readily from the juice of the
sugar-cane, and also from the sugar-maple. In France and
some other countries, from the beet-root. In China, from the
sweet sorgho,aud in other countries, from various sources. The
sugar priucipally used in this country is the cane-sugar. To
ma ^e which the canes are crushed, the juice collected, thou
slowly heated to near boiling point—a little hydrate of lime is
added, which clears it—it is then Bkimmed, and subjected to
great eat, till sufHciently concentrated by rapid evaporation.
 113 then cooled in shallow open pans, and put into casks witli
lo es ored in to allow the uncrystallizablo portion [molasses]
to drain sway.
  What ia left in the cask is what we know as raw, or brown,
sugar.

                       LUIIP SUGAR.

redilM^^'^^'P           called block] sugar, raw sugar is first
<1 litn« r                albumen is added, and. if required,
bciuo                               """bed, and clarified by
inteuMol      through animal charcoal—tlien subjeotod to an
into eon^''^'               proper degree of syrup, is poured
and srni"°"'';.'                            -"i becomes solid
takes nlaca
      place elowly,
             i"" it forms into sugar-candy.
                                     When the orysteUization
            oa, TIIE AKT OF lUXING DKINKS.                    23


   Tliis canily cau bo colored as required.
   Barley-augar is made by subjecting loaf-sugar to the roquia-
ite heat and lUou lotting it cool.
                         GOOD SDCtAR

   Ought to feel dry to the touch, and havo a sparkling appear-
anco tvheu broken—it should bo close iu torture, and hard to
break.
   It requires for its solution one-third of its weight iu cold,
and less of boiling, water.
             TO M.\KE SYKUP AND CLARIFY.
  Beat up tho white of ouo egg into a froth, which well mix
with 3 pints of water.
   Put the mixture into a iian over a steady stove fire, having a
little cold water at hand to prevent the syrup boiling over.
  Let the sugar rise three times, each time chocking the boil
ing over by a little cool water ; the fourth time completely
skim, and so continue till all tho froth is cleared off.
  Strain through a flannel or hair bag.
  This syrup will bo found sufficient for all the ordinary re
quirements of,making liqueur.s.
  It is worth adding, that it will bo found best to employ only
the best refiuod sugar, and flltercd water, soft if possible. By
so doing it often saves tho trouble of clarification, which inva
riably becomes necessary when inferior ingredients aro used.
  Tho proportion of 30 parts of sugar to IG parts of water also
makes an excellent sjwup.
  In preparing syrups use as little heat as possible.
  The best plan is to pour the water cold over the sugar, and
let it slowly melt; and, when saturated, bring it up to the boil
by a gentle heat, and then keep simmering to tho point desired
-^remember, if a syrup is bottled while at boiling heat, and
immediately corked and tied down with a bladder, it will last a
long time in a perfect state.
  Syrups arc best kept iu a cool place.
              TllB AMEIIICAK BAB-TENDEE;

                   TO MAKE OEGEAT,
  Or Syrup of Almonds.—Taka 1 lb. of sweet and 1 oz. of bit
ter almonds—blanch them—beat them in a marble mortar to a
smooth paste—add the juice of half a lemon and a pint of bar
ley water.
  Pass this paste through a sieve.
  Again, with a little of the liquid beat up the residue of the
almonds till every particle is thoroughly mixed with the liquid
—add another pint of barley-water, strain clear, and to ever)
pint of liquid add 1 1-4 lb. of sugar and 1 drachm of oran^
flower water and rectified spirits.
                        MOCK AEEAOK,
  Or Yauxhall Nectar.—To 1 quart of pure, uncolored, Jamai
ca rum, add 1-2 drachm of flowers of benzoin, 1-2 fluid drachm
essence of pine-apple—digest, and keep agitating for a mouth
—then add 1 gill of skimmed miik—.agitate well.
  In a week bottle off the clear portion.
  This is an excellent liqueur, and very useful for Eoman
punches, or other kinds.
                        ANOTHER WAY.
  Dissolve 1 scruple of flowers of benzoin in 1 quart of good
    —add a sliced pine-apple, or 1-2 fluid drachm of essence of
pine-apple, and 4 grains balsam of Tolu. Digest 3 weeks add
a gill of skimmed milk ; agitate well.
                           ANISEED.
  Drop on a lump of sugar 3 drops of oil of aniseed, 1 drop
each of oil of cinnamon and carraway. Dissolve in a pint of
sifirit. "When well dige.sted, add 1 pint of clarified syrup.
                 ANISETTE DE BOEDEAUX
   Is a liqueur made by distilling fennel, anise and eoriandei
 seeds, which are added to brandy and sjwup.
   It can thus be imitated ; take of oil of aniseed 7 drox^s, of
 ®il of cinnamon 3 drops, dropped on a lump of sugar, wbicV
 infuse in 1 1-2 pint of rectified spirit, adding 1-2 -''aebm of
 sweat fomiel sci-ds.                                           >
                  OR, TRK art of JIIaING drixks.               27


                         amour saxs fin.
   Tako S drops of otto of ro.ses. 13 drops oil ofncroli, 13 drops
 oil of cloves—dissolve in a quart of pure spirits of wine, and
 while dissolving assist the process byagitating the liquor. Then
 filter clear.
   Add this to 7 pints of clear syrup, and color with cochinoah
                      CHERRY BR.VNDY, No. 1.
   Bruise 3 lbs. of black cherries (wild ones preferable), crack
ing the stones—putthe mass into a jar, with a few young cher
ry leaves.
   Add 3 pints of brandy or pure spirit—in 3 months strain off
 —add 2 Ib.s. of clear sugar, after which it will be ready for use
in a week.

                      CHERRY BRANDY, No. 2.
  Into a stewpan put 8 lbs. of clean picked cherries, viz: 7 lbs.
of black and 1 lb. of red ; let this stand on a hot plate, taking
the precaution not '... let the juicu burn.
  When well done, strain off the juice through a bag, add 1 lb.
of sugar to every 3 lbs. of hiico—give the juice and sugar a
boil up—when cool, add equal quantities of brindy and ju'ce.
                     CHERRY BRANDY, No. 3.
  To each pint of brandy add 1 lb, of Morello cherries, 1-2
pint of the expressed juice of small black cherries, 3 bruised
bitter almonds, 1 lb. jf bruised sugar candy.
  Will be ready foi use in two months.
                       CARRAWAY BRANDY.
  Steep 1 oz. of carraway seeds (bruised) in 1 pint of brand-.
In one week strain. Add G oz. of loaf sugar.
                       CURRANT BRANDY—
   Black or Red.—Take 1 quart of black or red currants, and
fill up with 1 quart of brandy. In two months strain, and add
sugar to tastck




       ■' A   '
28            TUB AJIEPJCAN EAB-TEXDER;

                     GINGER ERANDl'.
  Eniiso 1 oz. of ginger—ndl 1 bottlo of liriindy. Sjinp to
tnsto.

                    JUNIIER BRANDT.
  Dissolve 1-2 dmchm oil of juniper in 1 quart of puro spirit or
brandy. Add l-ii lb. of sugar dise-lved in 1 quart of water.
                     LEMON BRANDY.
  Steep the tbin pods of G lemons and 2 bitter almonds in 1
quart of brandy—macerate 2 weeks—adding 1-2 pint of water,
md 1 lb. of loaf sugar.
                    LEMON BRANDY.
  Take peels of i lemons, 1 bitter almond, 1 bottlo of brandy
—strain. Add juice of 2 lemons, and 1-2 lb. of loaf sugar.
                 ORANGE BRANDY, No. 1.
  Dissolve in 1-2 gallon of brandy 1 dracbm oil of orange, and
1 drop oil of neroli, adding 1 lb. of sugar.
                 ORANGE BRANDY, No. 2.
  Into a largo jar put 8 Seville oranges—cover tbem with bran
dy. In three montlis' time, strain off the brandy, sweeten
to taste, and cover tbo oranges over with syrup—the residium
will make an eicellont sweetmeat.
                            CASSIS.
  Infuse for 1 week in 1 quart of brandy l-'l ounce of cinnam
on and 2 cloves (bruised)—then add I pint of black currants.
Let these macerate for 2 months. Strain with pressure. Add
1-2 pound of sugar to every pint. Bottlo for use.
                   CINNAMON CORDIAL.
  Let I-I lb. of Ceylon cinnamon (bruised) bo infused in ono
quart of brandy for 10 days—then add 1 drop essouco of orango
pool and cardamons. Color dark brown with caramel.
                      CASSIA CORDIAL.
  In 1 pint spirits of wino infuse 3 drops of oil of cassia and 2
drop.s oil of lemon-pecl.
r^-




                      OB, TEE AET OF JIIXING DKINK3.


                                     CEDKAT.
            Dissolve 30 drops oil of cedr.it in 1 pint of pure sjiirit of
          wine. Add, ivlien dissolved, 1 pint of syrup.
                             CBEME DE CITRON.

           Dissolve 30 drojis oil of citron in 1 pint of spirit of wine; col
         or with 2 drops tincture of saffron. Add 1 quart of syrup.
                           CREME DE CANNELEE.
           Dissolve 10 drops oil of cinnamon and 2 of oil of roses in 1
         pint rectified S2)irit. When well digested add 1 quart of syrup,
        and color with cochineal.
                          CREME DE BARBADOES.
           Put the juice and thin peel of 3 lemons and 1 citron, in n
        jar with one quart of spirits of wine and 3 oz. frcsh-chopped
        balm leaves—macerate for 1 month—strain with pressure. Add
        a syrup of 2 lbs. of sugar, and 1 quart of water; a drop or two
        of lemon-grass oil in the spirit is a grateful addition.
                            CREME DE MENTH.
          Macerate for 24 hours, in 1 quart of spirit, 1 lb. of spear
       mint, and the thin rinds of 4 lemons. Strain clear, add water
       1 g.illon, and sugar to taste.
                           CREME DE NYMPHE.
         Take 3 drops oil of cinnamon, 5 drops oil of mace, 3 droiia
       oil of roses—dissolve in 5 pints of pure spirit of wine.     Add 5
                                                                               ■:rm
       tbs. of sugar, and 1 quart of water.
              CREME DE CEDRAT WITH CHAMPAGNE.
        Dissolve 1-4 oz. oil of cedrat in 1-2 gallon of alcohol.      Add
      1 bottle of champagne and 13 lbs. of sugar dissolved in 1 gal
      lon of water.

                            CREME D'ORANGE.
        Take 3 mandarin oranges steeped in 1 pint of pure spirit;
      strain in one month, with pressure. To this add 1 drop of ne-
      r'-li and 1 quart of syrup.
30             THE AMEEICAH EAE-TENDEE;


                     CREIIE DE NAPHE.
1 pint of orange-flower water, 2 lbs. of pure refined sugar, difi-
Bolvad in 2 quarts of spirit.s.
                      CEEME DE CACAO.
     Infuse 1 lb. best Caraccas cocoa-nibs, crushed, in 3 quarts of
brandy. Add 1 oz. of vanilla—digest a fortnight strain. Add
3 quarts of weak sjwup.
                     CREilE DE NOYEAU.
  Of peach kernels, blanched and bruised, 1 oz. proof spirit,
1 pint cinnamon, 1-1 oz.—macerate two weeks strain vi
pre.ssure. Add 10 oz. of syrup and 1-1 pint oraugc-flov er wa
ter.

           CEEilE DE NOYEAH OF MAETINIQUE.
     Take 5 oz. bitter almonds, blanched in cold water, ami
bruised—digest them in 3 quarts spirit of wine. Add          i rops
essence of lemon. In a fortnight, strain with                    "
this add a syrup made of6 lbs. of loaf sugar, 1 gallon o
and 1 pint of orange-flower water.
                      CKEME DE HOSE.
     To 1 pint of spirits add 8 drops oil of roses, 1 drop
nutmeg, 1 drop oil of cinnamon, 1 quart of good syrup-
 with cochineal to a bright rod.
                       CKEME DE VAhriLDE.
     Another way.—Into 1 pint of spirits of wine put 7 drops of
 tincture of vanilla. When well digested, add 1 quart of tbin
 syrup.

                          CUBACOA. No. 1.
   Into 1 quart of boiling water dissolve 1 lb. of sugar-candy,
 boil up the syrup, clarify, and cool. Digest 120 drops of o,l
     "■ ?r orange in 1 1-2 pint of pure rectified spirit, which add
 of bitter
  to tb   syrup. Color            caramel,
             t>K. THB AET OF MIXING MtlNKfl.                     SI


                         CUBACOA, NO. 2.
     Take 24 Seville orangea, not pricked or broken, put these in
  a jar, and cover with good brown bi'audy. Digest for a month
  —Btrain, and to every quart add 1 lb of sugar candy. Digest
  another week, and strain clear.
    This is an excellent article.    The fruit can be used as a
  sweet by being placed in syrup.
                    CUBACOA DE HOLL.AND.
    Soak in soft distilled water 1 lb. Curacoa orange peel, 1-4
  lb. Ceylon cinnamon. To which add the strained juice of IG
  oranges. Boil for 5 minutes, then add 4 gallons plain white
  syrup, and, when cool, 2 1-2 gallons of brandy, or pure spirit.
  Digest two weeks, and filter clear.   Color with tincture of saf
 fron.
                          CITKONELLE.
    Take essense of orange, 1 drachm—essence of lemon 1 1-2
 drachm—oil of cloves, 6 drops—oil of cinnamon, 12 drops—
 oil of coriander, 15 drop.s. Infuse in pure spirits of wine 5 pints
 well digested. To which add 1 quart distilled water. Filter
 clear, and sweeten with clarified sugar.
                       EAU DhVKGENT.

    1 drachm of oil of cedrats, 3 drachms oil of roses, dissolved
 in 3 quarts of rectified spirit—when well digested, add a clari
 fied syrup of 2 1-2 lbs. of sugar in 1 1-2 gallon of water. Filter
 and bottle. Mix iireviously 10 sheets of silver foil, cut into
small pieces.                                                          -WiS
                                                                       .-■V'irff
                        GINGEE GIN.                                    .f

  Infuse 2 oz. candied orange peel and 2 oz. bruised ginger in
, 2 pints of gin. Then add lib loaf-sugar.
               GIN AND WOKMWOOD.
  Use wormwood instead of tansy.
                      GIN AND SHEEEY.
  Use cherries and sherrj', with gin.
52             THE AMEBIOAN BAE-TBNDER;

               EAU DE FLEUES D'ORANGES.
  To 17 drops of noroli dissolved, by well agitating in 1 quark
of spirit, odd a clarified syrup of 1 lb. of sugar, in 3 quarts of
wator.

                 Eik-IJ DE BELLES DAMES.
  Take IG drops of essence of Tanilla, 1 drop of oil of roses,
2 drops of oil ofneroli. Dissolva in 3 pints of proof spirit
Add a clarified syrup of 2 1-2 lbs. of sugar to 3 quarts of uoter.
                        E.VU DE THE.
  Make an infusion witb 1 quart of boiliug wator of 1-2 oz. of
gunpowder tea, 1-i oz. orange irukoo, l-d oz. black tea ; strain
clear. Add eipial quantities of pure spirit, syrup and water,
with a tea spooiiful orange-flower water. Color green.
                   ELIXIB DE VIOLETTES.
 To 1 pint of syrup of violottes, 1-2 pint syrup of raspberries.
Add 1 quart of pure spirit. Mix, and color with blue and red
for violet.

                        GOLDWASSEK.
   Dissolve iu 1 pint of clean spirit 1 drachm of mace, 2 drops
oil of cinnamon, 3 drops oil of citron, 6 drops of aniseed, 2
drops of oil of roses. In one week strain with pressure. Filter,
clear. Add equal quantity of clear syruir, and a few leaves of
 gold leaf.
                         GINGERETTE.
   Infuse in 1 pint of pure spirit, gin or whiskey, 3 oz. of bruis
 ed ginger. Strain with pressure. Add 1 1-2 lbs. of sugar, and
■ 2 1-2 drachms of citric acid. Dissolve in 3 pints of water.
                       HDILE DE THE.
     With 1 pint of water make an infusion of 1 1-2 oz. of green
 tea. Strain with x^ressuro. Add a clarified syrup of 4 lbs. of
 sugar to 1 quart of water, 1 pint of spirits of wine, and a tabla
 siioonlul syrun of roses or violutn.
               OR, THE ART or MIXINa DRINKS;                      S3


                              KUMilEi/.

       To 1          puro spirit ndd 00 drops oil of caiTaway and 1
    pint of syrup.
                           KIRSCHWASSER.
      Macerate in 1 pint of spirit 2 lbs. bruised cherry-stones, and
    1 dozen grey cherry leavc.s, bruisod, and strain. I pint of cher
    ry juice is sometimes added.
                            LIFE OP M.VN.

      12 drops oil of lemon, 9 drops oil of cloves, 3 drops cU of
m   mace. Dissolve in 1 quart of alcohol. Add 2 1-2 lbs. Bngar.
    dissolved in 5 pints of water. Strain clear. Add 2 drops es
    sence of cochineal.
                            LIQUOblLLA.
      Thin peel of 4 sweet oranges and 2 lemons, in 1 pmt of bran
    dy or rum. Macerate a fortnight. Strain with pressure. Add
    the juice of the fruit. Also 1 quart ot clarLhed syrup.
                               LOVAGE.

      To 1 gallon of gin, mixed with 1 pint clear cyrup, add a tinc
    ture made by macerating 1 lb. of fresh-cut celery root.s and 1
    oz. of sweet fenuel in pure spirit for two days. Slrain by pres
    sure. Add 1 drachm of oil of cinnamon, 33 drops oil of car-
    raway seeds, well flavored, and str.un clear.
                          niPERIAL NGGX.AR.
      Infuse in 1 pint spirits of wine 1 oi. of bruised blanched ap
    ricot or peach kernels ; 1 scruple oi\ of orange,,1-2 grated nut
    meg, 2 drachms oil of ciunamor, ) d cop oil of cloves. Add 1
    quart of raisiu wiuo, 1-4 pint caramel. Put those ingredients
    into a stone bottle for a mouth rr 1 ouger. Add 2 drops e.ssouco
    of lomon. After this has been iu another fortnight, filter clear.
    Add 4: oints boiling milk. Filter and bottle.
                              NOYEAU.

    - Macerate 1-2 lb. French jdum-s,^bruised to a pulp. Add the
        peel rind of 1 Seville or 2 swoet oranges, 1 oz,sweet aln^-
      u             THE AJIEillOAK                       ;

      ontls bruised in a covered vessel, and pour in 1 quart of spirits
      of vine. Keep for a month. Str.ain with pressure. Add 1
      drop oil of ciunamon, and 2 1-2 pints of veuk syrup. Color
      with a little saflron.
                               PEPPEKMINT
        Spirits of vine 2 oz., English oil of peppermint 1-4 of an
      oz. Add a few drops on sugar when required.
                               PERFECT LOVE.
        Infusal pintspirits of wine, 1-2 tea-spoonful of vanilla pow
      der. Add the oloo-.saccharum of 2 lemons and 1 lb. of sugar,
      Color with cochineal.
                           SIROP DbiRSINTHE.
        JIacerate for 24 hour.s, or more, in 3 pints of water, 1-2 lb. of
      fresh wormwood tops. Strain with pressure. Add 4 pints of
      clarified syrup, and 1'table spoonful of pure spirit.
                           SYRUP OF GINGER.
        To tincture of ginger, 1-2 fluid oz., add clarified syrup 1-2
      pint
               SYRUP OF ORANGE OR LEAION PEEL.
        Tincture of orange-peel, 3 drachms, clarified syrup 1-2 pint.
                          SYRUP OF LEMONS.
        Lemon-juice, strained, 1-2 pint; sugar 2 1-2 lbs.; rectified
      spirit, 2 fluid oz. Boil the juice ten minutes. Strain, and add
      the sugar. When cool, color the spirit with saffron.
                       IMITATION LEMON SYRUP.
       4 oz. tartar'oacid; 2 drachms oil of lemon ; 6 oz. powdered
      loaf sugait



•V;
              OE, TKE AET OF JIIaIKG DEIXES-                      85




                    BITTEE EE INKS.



     Irrespective of the rise of bitter extracts specially resorted to
    for medical purposes, beverages are made in wbich the bitter
^   priuciiJlo of gentian, dandelion, bops, vormwood, quassia,
    orange-peel, calumba, cascarilla, and n few others is greatly
    used. The custom of infusing bitter plants in viuous driuk.s is
    very ancient. Bitter driuks invariably present the bitter prin
    ciple of some herb, such as wormwood, etc., which, when mix
    ed with sundry other aromatics and spirits, and then distilled,
    makes the "Absyntho do Siiisae'" so very popular in France and
I   Switzerland. Indeed, the Swi iS seem jrarticularly fond of bit
    ters for the very bitterest of bitters is one of their favorite
    liquors viz: the spirit distilled from gentian root. In England
    the bitters used in the public-houses are invariably made of
    spirit, from orange-peel, cassia, gentian, cardamon seeds, or
    any other bitter that fancy dictates. Tho well-known tonic, or
    bitter-cup is made of quassia wood It is reputed to be stom
    achic, and to assist digestion. The roasted chips of this wood
    form one of the ingredients used as a substitute for hops in
    embittering beer. No doubt, whatever, but that re.-.lly good
    and very carefully prepared bitters are useful as a ton'c, when
    taken in moderation. Experience, in all countries and climes
    prove that they strengthen and give tone to the stomach, and
    give a healthful appetite under nearly all circumstances. The
    active principles of the most important ingredients used in the
    manufacture of Bitters are best extracted where the distillation
    is carried on scientiflcnlly and on an extensive scale, and where

                                                                         rj-'f.
 SG            T::S A.MnuCAM BAR-TEXDEK ;

 thoro i.'! plon'y of wpifal to procr.ra Iho Tcry best mnteririls of
 every clesrrqitioii      nro used ia its mauufiicturo or concoc
 tion. S.icJi 13 ttia c.iso with the now almost universally used
 and most highly esteemed
                        BOKErd.d BITTEES.
   These Bitters are freely recommended by our mo.st respecta
 ble physicians, as combining in tho nicest proportions every
neiilth-giving ingredient requisite to give natural tone and
strength to the stomach and its auxiliary organ.s, and at the
same time never fail to restore the general health, if failing, or
toietaiu it, if not already lost. Those Bitters are, also, gener-
all used by the most intelligent and jiopular'of our Bar-
Tond-Ti.as they are known to impart that pleasant bitterness to
Sherry Wine. &o. which renders them so promotivo of appetite.
  Wo givo the following recipes for making Bitters — which
will be found useful when the above-mentioned article cannot
readily be obtained.

                         WEME BITTERS.
  Take the thin peel of 1 lemon, 1 bitter orange ; add 3 oz. of
good sherrj', 2 oz. of water—infuse.
                        BE.ANDY BITTERS.
  Orange-peel, 8 oz,, cardamons 1 oz., cinnamon, 1 oz., es
sence of cochineal, 2 drops ; gentian root, 6 oz.; brandy 1 gal-
 on. D.gest for.a mouih. Strain with pressure, and filter.
                       essence of bitters.
  1-3 lb. orange-peel, dried, 1-4 lb. orange-apples, 1-4 lb. gen-
                  ^'^®o°-pcel, ground to powder. Macerate for
                1 gdlon of pure spirit. Strain with pressur#.
.4.dd 1 quart of soft water.
                            BITTERS.
  Raisins, 1 Ih., bruised eiunamon, 3 oz., Virginia suake-root
 oz., juice ot 1 orange and 1 lemon, cloves 20. Digest in rum
tor two months.
                                           iV-




            OB, THE ABT OF ^^[XrN•G DEFN-KS.                    37




                   MALT LIQUOES,



   Baer is of great antiquity. The origin of the art of brewing
is nscribeii by Iloredotus to Isis, the excellent -wife of Osiris,
 King of Eg3q3t.
  The Kom.ins, who leirnt the nrt of brewing from the Egyp
tians, called this drink bj' the appropriate name of cerevisia,
in honor of Ceres, the celebrated agricultural Queen of Sicily,
tvho was afterwards deified as the Goddess of Plentj'.
  It was at an early period the favorite potation of the Ger
mans and Gauls, from whom it was introduced into England,
and to this day it remains the favorite beverage of the English-
spe:iking people, iu all parts of the world.
  Ale was originally made from malted barley alone.
• Ale houses were first licensed iu the reign of Charles XL That
variety of beer called Porter derives its name from its being
much used by the London porters.
  High medical authorities saj'that"Ale considered dietetic-
ally possesses n three-fold property : it quenches thirst, it stim
ulates and cheers, and nourishes and strengthens.
  "In Ale, the power of appe.asing thirst depends upon its
aqueous ingredients, assisted somewhat by its aciduous consti
tuents (carbonic and acotic acid}; its stimulating, cheering,
and slightly intoxicating power is derived, either wholly or
principallj',from the alcohol, of which it contains from 2 to 8
per cent.; lastlyi its nutritive or strengthening qualitj' is de
rived from the sugar, dextrine, and similar substances contain-
sd in it. Moreover, the bitter principle r"' hops confers on
4l3. consid.'^blfi tonic properties.
 38           the AaiERIC.VN' BAE-TENDER;

   'From these combinecl qualities, Ale, if taken in modera
 tion, proves a refreshing, healthful, and salubrious drink, and
 is an agreeable and valuable stimulant, and a support to those
 who have to undergo much fatigue."
   "Pure Ale,'' says Dr. Ure,"is a far more wholesome bever
 age for the people, when drank in moderation, than the thin,'^
 sour wines of the Continent."

   Beewixg, to be successfully practised, can only be learned
 by experience—no treatise on the art can give that judgment
 that the practised brewer has, which enables him to contend
 with very many unexpected difficulties, arising from sudden
 changes of weather, fluctuations of temperature, and other
 causes which render modifications of treatment necessary, and
 which no precise rule can guard against.
   The liquor, as the water used by brewers and others is term
ed, is of great importance—soft, or hard water softened by ex
posure, is generally preferred, because it makes a stronge^y ex
tract, and is more inclined to ferment—but hard water makes
the best keeping beer.    We may add that the water which
makes the best tea makes the best beer.
  The ales of Burton-on-Trent are brewed with hard water, the
river Trent containing an unusually large proportion of sul
phate of lime, together with carbonate and muriate of lime.
  The Scotch ales are distinguished for the small quantity of
hops they contain, and for their vinous flavor.
  Strong ale should be made from the best Barley Com,and tho
fermentation is allowed to take place slowly, so that tho fer
ment is exhausted or seperatcd.
   This combined with the large nount of sugar undecompos-
ed remaining,enables the liquor to keep long without requiring
a large amount of hops.
  Brewing is now carried to such perfection in this country,
that Ale is produced here that in every respect equals the best
brewings of the most celebrated British breweries.
  A.s we have before intimated, even when tho barley and othe?
          OE. THE Allf OF MIXIXQ DRINKS;

inp-eaients are of the best qualities, much dependa upon the
  ppgrlies of (ho water used. Albany is supplied with water
that possesses all the necessary essential qualities to produce
the best Ales. This fact was long since taken advantage of by
the founder of the house of                                        •
                      TAYLOR & SON,
^0^ so famous as the brewers of the justly celebrated Ala that
bears their name.
  Tj^tlob's Ale is agreeable to the palate, crystal-clear to the
 vo and generally admitted to possess all the best qualities of
the best Ales, now made either in the United States or in other
countries. All the various brands of Taylor & Sou's Ale is
known to be made from pure juice of the Barley Com, free
from any W'est India Malt, or any other base ingredient, so
often used now-a-days to make cheap ale or beer.
           DIRECTIONS AS TO T.'lPI'ING, &G.

  In tapping ale or beer, use a wooden mallet to drive the tap
m bave the vent-peg loose while tapping, and remember to
tilt the cask while running.
  The ale cellar should not be too cold, or too much exposed to
draughts of hot air, but kept as clean and airy as possible, reg-
alatin" the temperature by air-shutters.
  A beer cellar under a roadway, always siiffers more or less
from the vibration of passing vehicles, &c.
TO restore a barrel of stale, or sour beer.
  Put 1-4 lb. good hops, and 2 lbs. sound chalk in the bung-
hole • stop it close, and in a few days it will draw off perfecUy
fresh'- or a small tea spoonful of c.arbouate of soda maybe
mixed with every quart that is drunk. Many hang a linen bag
In the cask, filled with burnt oyster shells, pounded.
            TO TURN PORTER INTO STOUT.
  loBert 4 gallons of molasses into a butt of porter, with 1
-v." ■




           iO             THE AMEMOAN BA3l-TENDERi

           quart of finings, in a wook draw oft Tapping first in the mid
           dle of the butt.
                       TO GIVE BEEE A GOOD FLAVOR.
             Place 2 or 3 sea biscuits in a bag, witb some bops, and put
          these in the cask.
                  TO GIVE NEW ALE THE FLAVOR OF OLD.
            Take out the bung and put in a sliced Seville orange.
                          . CLEANSING UTENSILS.
            In cleansing utensils used for brewing bo careful not to use
          Boap or any greasy material—a good brush and scalding water
          will generally tlioroughly cleanse them, but all the fur on the
          Bides and bottom must be removed—after this they should bo
          well drained, and left in some airy situation to sweeten.
            If they are still found to be tainted, take wood -ashes, and
          boil them to a strong ley, which spread over the bottoms of the
          ve.ssels scalding hot—then scrub with a brush or broom, or
          throw some stone lime into water in tho vessel, and scrub over
         the bottom and side.s, rinsing well with clean water.
            In some cases it is necessary to wash with oil of vitriol di
         luted with eight times its bulk in wafer.
            Fresh burnt charcoal can also be employed.
                                     YEAST.
           The best known is that of beer—it is a solid soft substance
         of a greyish yellow color, which dries to a pale brownish mass,
         and is nearly insoluble in water. The best yeast for working
         ia tbat thrown out of the bung-hole of tho casks ; that from
         strong ale works slower, but ia strouger than any other.
                               ELDERBERRY WINE.
           Boil in 18 gallons of the fin^^f and strongest wort 1 1-2 peck
         of elderberries, quite ripe ; strain clear—when cold, work tho
         liquor in the cask, and let it remain in the ca.sk one year. Bot
         tle off. The addition of a few hops will be au improvement,
         M will also a few spices, tied up in a muslin bag.



                '4'
                 OB, THE ABT OE inXtNO DBDfKS;                   4




                    &ERATEDBEEB8.


                          GINGER BEER, No. 1.
       To 1 1-2 •s, cream tartar, add 1 1-2 oz. Cochin ginger,
     hnaised—2 lbs. loaf sugar- -tbin peel and juice of 2 lemons
     bruise the ginger and lemon-peel w'th 1-2 lb. of sugar, in a
     mortar. Put altogether in a pan. Add G quarts boiling water,
^    and, when lukewarm, 2 table spoonfulls of good ale yeast. Let
     this ferment ten hours, drain clear, cork tight and tie down.
     Will bo fit for use 10 hours after.
                         GINGER BEER, No. 2.
       Bruise and macerate, in 1 gallon of water, G oz of good gin
     ger and 1 oz. capsicum pods—boil the same slowly for two
     hours—when ne.irly cold, add 0 lbs. of loaf sugar, 12 oz. cream
    of tartar, 1 oz. essence of lemons, mixed with 1 oz. spirit of
    wine—put all in a cask, and pour on 11 gallons of boiling
    water—when nearly cool, add the whites of G eggs, whisked
    with a little of the liquor, and sufficient yeast to ferment. If
    required, clear through tammy—strain—pass through filtering
    paper, which h.oa a little magnesia over it.
      This Is a long oioeiutiou, but produces a fine articIeL
      Have the tap driven in abovo the sediment; phwe the bottles
    on their tide in the collar, as usual with alo, ujo.
                        ginger beer. No. 3.
      To 20 Ibe. ot sugar, add 20 thin lemon peels, and strained
    juice of same—16 oz. of bruised ginger—boil the sugar, ginger
    end peel, in 6 gallons of water, half an hour—pour into a pan
13              THE AMERICAN BAR-TENDER;


—Add 12 gallons of ■water—strain into n barrel—add 1-3 ea
isinglass finings, and 1 bottle of pale brandy. When luke-
■warm, ferment ■with yeast.
                   GINGER BEER, No. 4.
 (Particularly adapted for hot climates.) Loaf-sugar, 5 lbs.
—lemon-juice, 1-4 pint—honey, 1-4 lb.—bruised ginger, 5 oz.
—water, 4 gallons. Boil the ginger in 3 quarts of water fox
one hour.                                              a
  Then add the sugar, lemon-juice, and honey, ■with the re
mainder of the water.     Now str.ain clear.   When cold, add the
whiaket^- white of an egg, and half a tea spoonful of essence of
lemon. Let it stand four days, and then bottle for use.
                      ginger beer. No. 5.
  10 gallons of boiling water, 10 oz. cream of tartar, 15 o*.
ground ginger, 40 lemons cut in slices, and boiled together.
Let them stand till nearly cool. Strain and press them. Dis-
lol've in this misturo Ih lbs. of sugar, and add when Imrowarm
•ne pint of yeast. Lit the compound stand fourteen hours.
Skim and filter, bottle and bind the corks.
         GINGER BEER, CR IMPERIAL POP, No. 6.
     Take cream ot hrrtar, 3 1-2 oz—powdered ginger, 4 oz.—
sugar, 3 lbs—lemon juice, 3 1-2 oz. —water, 2 gallons.        Digest
when lukewarm. Add 1 oz. Geruiait yeast. Ekim and bottle
tight.
            GINGER BEER, WITH RAI'^Hs'S, No. 7.
     To 1 lb. of raisins, add 1-2 lb. of sugar, 1 oz. bruised ginger,
4-4 citrio acid in powder. Macerate ihe raisins and ginger
in 2 quarts of water for one day, then boil for ono hour. Add
the sugar. Strain with pressure, adding the oitrio aoid.
                TO AERATE GINGER BEER, &o<
  Dissolve in 1 gallon of water 2 drachms essence of ginger,
and 1-4 pint of lemon juice, 2 drops essence of lemon-peel—
when well mized, bottle in giuger-bccr bottles, filling only to
             OB, THE AET OF MIXING DRINKa                    i3



the shoulder ; add to each bottle 1-4 drachm of bicarbonate of
soda. Drivo in cork, and string immediately.
                    SPEUCE BEER, No. 1.
  Sugar, 1 lb.—essence of spruce, 1 oz.—boiling ■water, 1 gal
lon—add, -when lukew.'irm, a tab'e spoonful of German yeast.
Ferment, andbotae like ginger beer.
                   SPEUCE BEER, No. 2.
  To 6 gallons of •water, add 2 quarts of molasses, 3 oz. of
hops, 2 oz. allspice, 3-4 lb. bruised ginger, G oz. essence of
spruce.
  Boil the ginger, hops, and allspice in the water for one hour.
Stir in the molasses and spruce. Strain -while warm, into a
cask. Stir in 1-2 pint good yeast When the fermentation
ceases, bung up the cask. In six days draw from tap and then
bottle.
                  WHITE SPEUCE BEER.

  To 1 1-2 pint essence of white spruce add 3 gallons of boiling
water and 6 lbs. of loaf sugar.    Ferment with yeast, and uso
same formula as in ginger beer.
                   SAES.4PAEILLA BEER.

  Infuse 1 1-3 oz. compound extract of sarsaparilla in 1 1-2
pint of water—when cold add 8 pints of good root beer.
                      MOLASSES BEER.

  In 8 quarts of boiling water put 1 1-2 lb. of molasses, 1-4 oz.
bruised ginger, 3 bay leaves, and 1 oz. of hops—boil the infu
sion an hour.   Fermeut with 1 oz. yeast, placed on a slice of
bread. When fermenting is finished, either bottle or keep it
in a cask.




                                                                    ■' ■'S



                                                        4b'. W
               THE AMEEIOAM BAE-TEHEEE •




               REPBIGEEATION

   RiPEiosEiTioji, is tho term applied to tlia operation of cool
 ing.
   The use of ice in tliis and otLor countries has become from a
 luxury, a necessity.                                    '
   Its uses in the preservation of food, cooling of liquors and
 other articles—as well as for medical and other purposes, are,
 of course, generally known.
   The best and most economical method of preseiwing ice for
domestic use is by the Refrigerator.
  The possession ofa good Eelrigerator, as regards the amount
of comfort and luxury it brings, cannot be over-estimated.
  For iceing wines and beverages it has a special advantage,
the temperature can bo adjusted at pleasure, while the contenta
are not wasted or spoiled.
                        TO ICE WINES, &0.
  In icing wines, it is merely necessary to place the vessel in
the refrigerator, and the temperature required can be regulated
by the length of time it remains, or by placing it in direct con
tact with the ice, or otherwise.
    TO REMOVE THE ICED BEVERAGE FROM THE
                         RERIGEEATOR.
  Remember, on moving the wine, &c., from the Refrigerator,
to wrap it round with a wet cloth.
  The usual mode of exposing liquid which has been cool
ed immediately to the effect of warm air, without such protec
tion.is decidedly tmphilosophical and bad in practice.
            OB, THE AET OF HIXIXG DBIXKS.                     45



   It ■will bo apparent to erery one that too great caro cannot
 be observed in selecting a Eefrigerator. There are legions of
 them : a few good, some indifferent, and very many useless.
   Tho Kefrigerators manufactured by Jlr. E. D. B.\SSFOED,
 in the Cooper Institute Buildiug, surpass all others that -we
 have any knowledge of. They include all the good points of
 all other's, with many supplemental excellencies of their own.
                           ICE PL.4NES

 Are useful in preparing shaved ice for juleps, cobblers, and
 other drinks.
                          TO BEE.IK ICE

Ese a sharir-pointed instrument, similar to a brad-a'wl, but
larger, and -with a longer blade ; the sharper the point, tho eas
ier tho ice is broken.
                          IN FEEEZING,
  A thermometer is of great service—the freezing point is be
low 320.
  A good strong tub is the best for use for ice and s.alt.
  Salt is used not to preserve ice, but to generate a greater de
gree of cold.
  A mixture of 12 lbs. of broken ice to 3 Ib.s. of salt, is that
most generally used.
  Use no other but the purest ice in drinks, or you will prob
ably spoil them.
  "When ice is not obtainable, an efficient freezing powder is a
valuable substitute.
                       FREEZING POWDERS.
Must bo kept as dry as possible, or else t hey deteriorate.
  The mixture should be made in as thick a vessel as possible,
to check external heat.
  "When it is necessary to augment tho porver of the freezing
mixture, you can double the charge, diluted with a sufficieut
quantity of fresh water—but fresh powders put dry into the
exhausted liquor will have no effect.
                                                            S-.   r:.-- .




         43            THE AMEBICAJJ BAE-TEHDEK;

                            FEEEZING IIIXTUEES
          Are thus made ;
            No. 1.—Muriate of ammonia, 1 lb.—saltpetre, crushed, lib.
          —common soda, 2 lbs.—well pound together, dry. Put the
         bottles into a vessel, add the mixture. Agitate well, and cover
         with a wet cloth. In half an hour the wine or drink is ready.
           No. 2.—2 lbs. snow or pounded ice—3 lbs. crystalized chlor
         ide of calcium. -This salt of lime jiroduces intense cold.
           No. 3.—4 lbs. sulphate of soda, (Glauber's salts)—2 1-2 lbs.
         hydrochloric acid (muriatic acid.)
           No. 4.—1 lb. nitrate of ammonia (this salt can be used again
         if evaporated till dr}'-)—1 lb. carbonate of soda—1 pint of
         water.
           No. 5—10 oz. sal ammonia—10 oz. saltpetre—16 oz. Glaub
         er's salts—2 pints of water.




Saw'''
                                                                  -/




                        feengh wines
           Wine, that glorious juice of the grape, elegantly designated
         by an ancient poet as a recompense given for the miseries in
         curred by mankind through the Deluge, has puzzled poets and
         'lorians in all ages to account .satisfactorily for its discovery,
           he vine, which is a native of the middle regions ofthe tem
         perate zone, has been an object of culture from the earliest
         ages.
tv'




                                                                     47
                 OE. THE AET OF MIXING DEINKS;
         The richest ^nes of Franco, Italy, Hungary and Tcneriffe,
      '^^XTocTsstheo^r-treading
                     site of extinct volcanoes.
                                      is pursued very generally in
             ^                    cnnprior in n.any vmo districts, to
       France, being considered superior, m n, y
       the employment of mechanical squeezing.
         Sislast preccss is used for expressing the .ouiee
                                                       .
                                                           of ,he
       Jpe for the sparkling wines of Champagne, and it is also the
       Tht\S«own in Franco as Vins de Bordeaux,are with us
       tlassed under the general name of Claret
                                  CL.AEET.

         naretis divided into several classes, rated according to their
       excellence. The chief vino tracts are those of Medoc, Graves,
       ^ie otolSrftics of the best red growths are a bright deep
       ruby or violet color, exquisite bouquet,of the flavor of tne r.isp-
       lerry and violet, a soft silky taste to the palate, and possessing
       ""oS^ScLr^rsTerf the most refreshing and invigorat-
       iue of boTero-ges.
                                 CHAMPAGNE.

          T et US now turn to Champagne-"the spring dew of the spir-
        itJ^the heart's rain;" this is the product of vineyards in the
        ancient province of Champagne.
          Ohampa'Tue,is better known by tlie name of the makers than
        by the desFgnation of the vineyards that produce it, with the
        exception
        duce of theofold
                      a few choice"growths
                         vineyard   Sillery,"among the white,
                                              in oldon times isknown
                                                                 the proas
        the Vin da la Marohale.                _           ,           i
          This win.is of an amber hue, exquisite bouquet, with a clear
      ^ bleasant dry taste.                        _    • iv,     en » en
          The wine most esteemed by connoisseurs is the still, so
        tailed by reason
        tascwsed,  therebyofconstitating
                             its being botUed   after
                                         it a more    the fermentation
                                                   natuW        whole
         some wine.




                                                                             r.v"-:-'
   is               the AMERICAN BAR-TENDEB;
     Ch.impngne wine has been recommended by the fnctdtv «< ».
   "ATaa "                 l^ecP'nS
           sfuuulus, it is the least"P  tho system under exhaustion
                                     injuriou-s.
  hence the ;mn°T                    is highly injurious to health—
  ase of t!.is wine        f Judgment in the selection and pnrch-
    cZTnV         ' does not require
    t«>od Champagne                from reliable houses.
                                            much iceing.
                          ROUSILLON,



                   GERMAN WINES.

 to^te.^'andthfG'^'"®^'''®                              associated
"The?"
 qualiLs"''                                    o°® ""fr best
''SL^toZ'lZTent                   Tb"''          ^               "-

Rhine may'b;                                "the wines of the
themselves.               °-® constituting a distinct order by
  Wlioover dosirisi:'''                              '**•   *■
cheerfulness instead of
ioate aroma confaiimm
                                     wine, which wine
                                                 will impart
                                                      of del-
Rhenish wine.                      aJoohol, let him diinli the
»'w:;™.
are produced on the ban! TT                    valuable wines
flow info the Rhine and " 7          aad other rivers that
where they are gro^       aiowa by th* name of the locality
            OB, THE AET OP JimNG DRINKS.                       49


  The ifwect wine called Caliaus is made at Aschaffenberg,
BenrPrankl'ort.
   The wines of the Rhine and Moselle share some general re-
eemblanceof flavor, but the latter will not keep so long as the
Rhenish wine. The great peculiarity of the Moselle wines is
their musk-like or eldor-fiower-like bouquet.




PORTUGUESE AND SPANISH WINES.
 This wine, is produced from a district in Portugal, called
the Cima de Douro. Of the excelloaco of genuine Port wine
there is but one opinion. In England no dinner is thought
complete without iL Professor Brando says, that "good Port
wine, duly kept is, "when taken in moderation, one of the
most wholesome of vinous liquors: it strengthens the muscu
lar system, assists the digestive powers, accelerates the circula-
tion, exhiliratos the spirits, and sharpens the mental energies.
  We now come to the white wines of Spain,familiar to us un
der the appeUation of Sherry. Shakspoare says: ''Your Sher
ries Wiirms the blood, which was before cold and settled, and
left the liver white, whichis the badge of pusillanimity, but the
Sherries makes it course from the inwards to the parts ex
treme.'' Sherry, when pure, contains less free acid, it is not
so stimolating as other wines,and agrees wnU with most consti-
toticns.
                          MADEIRA.

  The produce erf th« Island so Killed, Is a first class wrne,
darker than Sherry. It is extensively Bought after, and much
           by the best judges of good wines.
 50             THE AMERICAN BAR-TENDER ;


   The finest vintages from the best vineyards of Portngnl,
 Spain and Madeira are to be procured only from n limited
 number of wine merchants. The house of Wellington, Kid-
 DEu & Co., 74 Broad street, have the sola coufrol of the en
 tire crop of Wines from B. Reig, for 1374 and 1875. They al
 ways have on hand the largest quantity of superior wines in
 this market.




          ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS.

                          ALCOHOL,
   Which is the living principle of spirits, beer, and all intox-
ioftting liquor.s, is produced from numerous sources—all vege
tables contaiuing farina or saccharine matter can be employed
to obtain alcohoL
            ABSOLUTE, OB PURE, ALCOHOL,
Is a limpid, colorle.is fluid, of agreeable smell ; it readily ab
sorbs water, and unless it be carefully protected, soon loses
its purity—pure alcohol never freezes.
                       PROOF SPIRIT
Is a term used when spirit is proved of the proper strength ;
that is when it is found to contain two pints of rectified spirits
of wine with one of distiUed water.
  Rectified Spirit and Spirits of Wine are synonymous terms.
                          BE ANDY,
  Derived from the German word BraniweCn, i. e. wine that has
undergone the action of fire, is an ardent spirit in very general    A'l
use. The department of Charente produces the most famous             C:
brandies, known by the name of Cognac, Jemac, &c.;the best
is made from the grape named * folia blanche.'
                     CIDER BE.4.NDY
  Is made firom the lesiduum of apples and psfutsi after the
cider or perry has been drawn off
              OB, THE ABT OP IIIXING DKINKS.

                        PEACH BRAKDA',
      So -well known in the United States is obtained from penoh-
tiQ      fermentation and distilliitiou.
                HOLLANDS AND ENGLISH GIN
differ much in flavor: Holland Gin is a rich, mellow, soft spir
it, and its peculiar flavor is duo to the use of juniper.
                                BUM,
A well known spirit, chiefly made in the West Indies, is ob
tained from the distillation of the fermented skimmings of the
sugar-boilers, adding some crude cane-juice, neces.sary to im
part the flavor. Good Bum is a very pleasant and wholesome
spirit, but if impure it is very injurious. The best Bum comes
from Jamaica. Deraerara, Santa Cruz and other islands, pro
duce a very fine article.
                            WHISKEY
  Is more generally used in the United St.ates than any other
liquor. It may also be oonsidered as the national spirit of the
Scotch and Irish. It agrees in some of its char.acteristics with
Gin, but is lighter and more stomachic. It is stronger than
gin, and is also, when good, the best spirit for general use.




      SEVEEAL HUNDEED TOASTS


                      POLITICAL TOASTS.

  May our Chief Magistrates and their Cabinets form a govern
ment of purity and unanimity,and from that basis defy a world
of enemies.
      Our Governors—May they ever merit the esteem of the peo
ple, and be always ready to reward the deserving.
                        fOLlTICAIi TOASOa.

Despair and disgracn to all demagogues.
Full stomachs but no foul corporations.
The Majesty of the People and of the laws—Our right and no-
      thiug more.
The Constitution and the People—May the union by faith and
      freedom bo inseperably cemented forever.
The Ballot—The only safe mode of choosing representatives.
The Party Press—May it be governed by truth and moderation,
      and always be on the right side.
The Constitution—The first offspring of the revolution may it
      flourish to the latest posterity.
Peace aud Purity at the Polls—the only conduct becoming
      freemen.
The Constitutions of the different States—The bright stars
      which revolve around the great sun (the Nation.) May
      they ever respect the great central planet that warms, ir-
      raduates, and guides them.
Election Judges—May every Arise vote they conmve at be a
      drop of prussic acid in their bowels.
False Voters and Foul Judges—May they all burn in the devil's
      ballot-box.
The true and consistent advocates of reform in morals and po-
      litical economy.
The true principles of American Liberty—May they take deep
      root and flourish to the end of time.
May our Statesmen be as much distinguished for their deeds
      as their words.
May dishonest office-holders fall by a quick rotation of justice.
Let us toast integrity, and roast corruption.
Here s to Columbia, free laws and a free church ;
From their blessings may plotters be left in the lurch,
Give us pure candidates and a pure ballot-box,
And our freedom shall stand as firm as the rocks.
May the laws never be misapplied or misconstrued.
M   I
                               POLITICAL TOASTS,


          Freedom from mobs ns -n ell as kings.
          Tlie Freedom of tbo Press—Truth published with honest mo
                tives and for justifiable ends.
         America s Daughters-may the blue of their eyes, the red of
                their checks, aud tho white of their bosoms, be the
                standard of our love and patriotism.
         May tho ball of our onomies be a bawl for quarters.
         May the honor of our Statesmen, Soldiers and seamen b» with
                out a stain.
           May Columbia's brave defenders.
              Ever stand for the good of her cause,
           "RTiile such we can toast them, no rogue or pretenders.
              Can injure our dear Constitution and laws.
         May our Courts, our Schools, Capitals, and our Altars never
                want an army to protect them.
         May Americans secure their conquests by clemency.
         The land wo live in—May those who dislike it find a far worse
                one.'
         May our citizens be free without faction, and obedient without
               servility.
        May the pinions of the American Eagle spread the o-piniona
               of liberty throughout the world.
                    To insure perpetuation.
                   To this great and happy nation,
                   'Tis the greatest demonstration,
                   To give each generation.
                   Of every rank aud station,
                    A liberal education.

        It is nobler for tho bravo to fall, than live a life iuglorioun.
        Drink to our native land and native beauty.
        Free Discussion aud freedom from passion.
        Prompt legal justice aud no lynch law.
                       Political toasts.

kay both houseg of Congress always be attentive to the real In.
       terests of the nation.
May the Americans form a government of unanimity, and from
     that basis present an eXiimple to the world.
May the citizens of America always oppose a corrupt Congress,
     and give support to a good one.
The President—His rights and no more.
Our Country—May those who misuse her be speedily lucked
      off.

The American Constitution and the people—May the union
      which ago has cemented be forever inseperable.
The Ballot-Box—The only mode of procuring a free and inde
      pendent representation in Congress.
The Constitution of the United States, as signed, sealed and
      delivered by our noble forefathers.
The American Constitution, and confusion to those who would
      overthrow it.

Stump Orators—May their footing give'way when they utter
      falsehoods.
OfBce Hunters—May they find the doors closed, and the people
       thumbing their noses at the window.
State Loafers—May they always Be in want of a loaf.
Humbugs—May they be rid of their bad blood by a legion of
       bed-bugs.
State Borers—May they, like other intrusive swine, be distin
       guished by rings in their snouts.
iShort Speeches and long consciences to our representatives.
The Veto—May it never prove a sore toe to the people.
The American Eagle—May it never rise in anger, nor roost in
      fear.
Andrew Jackson's motto—"Ask nothing that is not clearly
     right, and submit to nothing that is wrong."
                    gOIiDIERS' AND SAILOBS TOASTS.

        Here's to America-theBuler and Queen of the Wares-May
              she always extend to the weak and oppressed those bles
              sings with which her own sous have been blest
          May th^ American Congress long plead our just cause.       -^
          Establish true peace, our religion and laws,                    j
        May our Senators be distinguished for their integrity.
        Mav the influence of the Executive always be destroyed by its
              own corruption, and the liberties of the people revive
              after every depression.
        Mar the Members of Congress, while they are in Wa.shington,
              never forget that they are the representatives of the ab-
              sent people.




        SOLDIEBS- AND SAILORS' TOASTS.
        The Military and the Press of the United States-The two
              great safeguards of our nataonal indepeudeuoe and the
              people's rights.
        The Military of the several States—Though balongiug to differ
              ent regiments, brigades and divisions, they are all broth
              er soldiers of one grand army—the Army of the Union.
        Our Military Esohanges—The best system of exchanges wMoh
              has yet been adopted to preserve the Union.



. t ,
                  GOLDIERg' AND SAILOES* TOASTS.
   Onr Oaptain—The ^varm reception given by our hospitable
         commander will ever brighten our recollections of tha
         excursion.
  The moon on tha ocean was dimmed by a ripple,
      Affording a checquered light,
  When tha g iy, jolly tars, passed the word for a tipple
     And the toast, for 'twas Saturday night, '
           Some sweetheai't or wife
           Ho loved as his life.
  Each drank and wished ho c'onld hail her.
          But tha sbxnding toast.
          That pleased the most,
          "Was—The wind that blows.
         The ship that goes,
 And the girl that loves a sailor.
 Some drink the land,some her'brave shipg,
     And some the Constitution,
 Some, may tha foe and nil such rips.
     Yield to Yankee resolution;
         That fate might bless              W'
         Borne Poll or Bess,
 And that they soon might hail her.
         But the standing toast. &o,                            ■    ■
 Some drmk the flag, and some our land.
    "^elorious laud of freedom.
Som^ that our
   Heroes bravetars may'em
                 to lead never
                            : want                          ,   "
         That she who's in                                  ' ■: ,
         Distress, may flud
Snoh friends as ne'er will fail her.
        But the standing tmst,^
May the materials whinb                                     ''
America 1 and majt its Naval
      time.                          Military power exist for all
Plctty frigates weU rigged  andt^n
                      Bsea, and      v to man them.
                                joUy boys
                    SOLDIKBS' ATO SAttOKs' TOASTS.

    Our Past Officers—Like careful Parents, they delight to watch
           the rise ami progress of those who come after.             i'
    May the Anniversary of the Declaration of Independence be as '
          much honored by us as it was by the thirteen original
          States.
    The Military and the Union—The former will be ever ready to
         support the latter.
   May our tars still keep their timbers together, and may the rot-
         ton planks of mutiny never disgrace the rudder cf their
         understandings.
   AU hearty messmates, and may we never want a mate to moss
         with.

  The military spirit, and its gallant and accomplished represen
        tative at tins board.
  The Volunteer Military Force and the Editorial Corps of the
        United States—May the former be ever ready, if need
        be, to spill the hist drop of their blood in su'pportiu"
        the Union, and the hitter consume the last drop of ink in
        writing editorials sustaining both.
 ■May our Company in the ^pport of our legs never need the
       aid of splints, nor in support of their arms the aid of
       surgeons.

 The Natiounl Legi-skture and the Militia-IVIutual Protection
       should be the motto of both.
The Press—Liberty is its watchword, and liberty is its reward
The occasion we now celebrate-Its return adds a new link to
      the chain of social brotherhood that binds us to the
      common good.
Military Fri,- u;ihip-An important bond in maintainin-r miU-
      tary discipline and i>roficieucy.
America—May its Naval and Military power exist for ever
          None but the ashes of the brave.
          SmoU sweet and blossom in the grave.
                    SOLDIfiBS' AHD SAILORS' TOASm

    The Citizen Soldiery of the Bepuhhc-_May ell Us mem^w
          ever cherish the principles of exalted patriotism, in orde
!         and discipline model militiamen, in morals worthy e -
I         amples for the youth of their native state.
    May the soldier be as comfortable at his post as at the snppar
    The Lld^Is'and the Soldiers-May they both be ready to bear
          (arms) when called on.
    May a tar who has lost a leg or an arm or any other of his
           members, in defence of his country, bo remembered ana
           rewarded for his services.
     The AmeriSan Soldier-May he sorrow for the slain, and bo
           merciful to the vaiKiuished.
     A broadside of golden eagles to every distressed American
           seaman.

     May the ship of success always have prudence at the helm.
     Plenty to orphans and widows of our seamen.
     May the gales of good fortune never blow us out of our true
            latitude.

      May we so trim our sails in a calm a* to be ready for a storm.
      Discipline—The jirelude to victory.
      The Sea—May it always be a full tide of joy to our country
      May a son of the sea never die on the bosom of his mothe
      A True Soldier—The iudispensiblo qualities of a first            "
            dier are : first a citizen, next a gentleman, and lastly a
            hero.                                                      '

      The veterans of '76 and the veterans of 1850.
       The Soldier—Soldier in generosity, soldier in the art of now-
             ing how to live.
       The Soldiers of tlie past, the present, and the
             the enjoyment of the present be sweetened by the mem
             ory of the past, tho hope of the future y
              meat of tho present.
                  SOLDIERS   ASD SAILORS     TOASTS.


    May our company and our country live on, live ever.
    May the love of friendship, contempt of hardship, and affec
         tion for the States, ever animate the hearts of American
          seamen.

    May the God of Battles bless with victory every American in.
          conflict, and may our watchword be. Liberty forever.
    Our Soldiers and our Sailors—Ma}'they over be as closely uni
          ted in the bonds of fellowship as they now are.
    Our absent brothers in arms—May they never bo forgotten.
    The Volunteer Militia—May they all become veterans.
    May our soldiers bo as ready to handle the musket as they are
          to use the knife and fork.
 The Commander of our company—May his days bo prolonged
         to be a blessing to his friends, his family, his State, and
         his country.

May the gale of prosperity waft u.s into the port of happiness.
Our Commander, and may health and happiness attend him
         through life.
May the materials which compose our na-vy be native hearts,
         native timber, native iron, and boimd by native valor.
May the devil bo the shipmate of all mutineers.
May true friendship always warm the hearts and hands of
         Yankee tars.

May heaven's descended mercy ever govern our sons on land
         and sea.
May the interests of the States be united forever.
May every American seaman's child be nursed in the lap of
        fame.

The memo^ of General Mercer—Ever merciful and never mer-
'       oenary.
General Scott, who gave our enemies a massive volume of
        Scott's tactics,




                                             tj'..       ' jtuh   "
                    soldiers' aot sailors toasts.


The American Eiglo, the angel of death in the battle-field
American Tars and American Stars—May the latter over shine
         over tho hliie-jaekets of the former.
May every soldier have his right, and every deserter a halter.
American Republicanism—Tho child of tho skies, and the sal
         vation of tho oppressed
Our brave Military Leaders and their equally brave followers—
          Nothing daunts them, nothing.                              I!
May ouncuemies on the ocean be peppered by our shot, and
          pickled in the briuo.
    May our wounded and disabled seamen never have to depend
          on charity for supiiort.
    The brave Perry, his memory and his motto ; "We have mot
          the enemy and they are ours."
    May America's fortitude, honor and courage never be compro
         mised for the sake of jieaco, or sacrificed from a dread
          of war.
    May the Yankee stars over shine on the mainmast.
    Yankee Tars, the pride and pets of Old Neptune—May they
          never disgrace their patron.
    The floating forests of America—Ever may they flourish.
    The martyred patriots of the British prison ships—May the
          bliss of their souls be eternal, and the abode of their
          murderers he infernal.
    The memorable Christmas night on which Washington crossed
^         the DcLrwaro, and gave the enemy at Germautown such
          a Christmas-box.
    To the memory of Paul Jones, who hoisted the first flag of the
          Eevolntion.
    The memory of the illustrious Andrew Jackson.
    To all those who have ploughed the sea, and honored the field
           of battle, for the causa of America.
                 SOLDIEES' AND SAILOIts' TOASTS.
    May eveiy American do his duty.
    A Patriotic Execration—Dam the canals, sink the mines fire
          forges, and cousumo the manufactures of America
   The Floating B itteries of America—Health and success to their
          brave occupants.
   The br.ave trio that Britain could not conquer—-Washington,
         Hancock and Adams.
   The Midshipmen of our Navy-may they know no mid-way
        between duty and honor.
    Tho sons of every State to freedom true ;
    May they stand like the .ship Constitution's bravo crew
    Nail the stars to the mast, fix her mast in so firm
    Tnat 'twill stand up forever through battle and storm
  Our Citizen Soldiery—Ever ready to protect and keep bnght
        the links of our glorious Union.             *
  The Army and the Naa-y—The marine and military service of
       the United States, triumphant in invincible valor, their
       stars of honor deck the flag which they so gloriously
       defend.

 Our -Volunteer Militia—The right arm of the civil magistrate ■
       if emergency requires it they will strike, and they will
       never strike in vain.
The Militia System of the Union—Admirably adapted to our
       wants, and to the condition of a free people.
Our Volunteer Militia—The helmeted brow is their glorious
     distinction ; may the sword instantly spring from its
      sheath to defend the soil and preserve the kws of the
      Union.
Our Journalists—Like Franklin, somo of them are ready to
      defend the militia in their columns, or head a column of
      militia.
The Military—May they alway.s be ready to defend the liberty
      of tho press, and the press be ready to defend the miii
                       soldiers' axd sailors' toasts.

May our enemies bo picUlod in the brino tbat preserves Amer-
         ica

May we never want for a Paul Jones to show tbo foe wo can be
         nt them with ono baud-
     May tbo tars of America triumi^bautly sail,
     And. over ber enemies ever prevail.
May tbo eiamplo set by our heroes in Mexico act as a stimulus
         to future ages.

     May each soldier of Columbia a bright oogis bear
     To defend them from treachery's diugcrous snare,
     And whilst victory's laurels hang high over their head,
     May they pity the vanquished and honor the dead.
May every American officer have Montgomery's courage but not
          his f.ije.
    May the enemy's flag be surmounted by the American stand
          ard.

    May the Volunteer Army of Columbia never feel dismayed at
          its enemies.
    May bronze mcdrls not bo the only reward of the comrades of
          Scott and Taylor.
    May the army of America be ready to face any army in tlio
          world.

    5Lay the American Mars over conquer the British Ileroules.^
    Manliness, merit, true friendship and love to every American
<          ailor.

    May the American flag ever fly at the main
    May America, a world within herself, reign safe on her floating
          towel s.

    Neptime'a favorites—American tars.
    Hull's hands—The tars of Columbia.                            ^
    The Battle
          deathofinMontery—May     every meet
                    that glorious action braveanfellow whorewar
                                                  eternal   met hiS
                soldiers' AKD bailors' i'OAS'^S.

    The Palo Alto heroes—May the widows and children ol tho»<i
          who fell in that battle never hnow want.
   The American Navy—May it ever .sail on a sea of glory, and.
         waned by gales of prosperity, guided by the compass of
         honor, enter the harbor of victory.
   Hull A "hull" team and no mistake.
   The American Army—May its distinguisliiug characteristics al
        ways be, fortitude in the hour of disaster, courage in
        the hour of danger, aud mercy in the hour of Tictory.
  "Washington—a great general, a noble soldier.
  The memory of the immortal Hull-May every American com
        modore emulate his glorious example.
    To McDouough's memory hero's a health.
        And to his gallaut tars,
    And may our American seamen bold.
     Despise both wounds and scars.
          Make France and Spain,
          And all the main.
   With all their fees to know,                      ,'   .
     America reigns o'er the sea,
     While the stormy winds do blow.
 The American Navy-The World's check-string.
 The Flag of America—may it ever triumphantly brave the bat
       tle aud the breeze.
Victory's Laurels—May they ever crown the heads of Ameri-
       cans.

To the memory of General Warren—may the laurels which
      America gained when he fell, bloom to the latest ages. ;
The World's wonder and envy and America's pride—Our gal
      lant Navy.
The nneonquered Navy of America Success to its champions.
The floating castles of America, and health to their iuhabit-
      auU.
                                                    . --fv—'rf,'




                       eOLDIEES' AND.aAlLOHS TOASTS.

      Tho American Trio—Scott, Taylor and Wool.
      Mad Anthony Wayno—The general that made the English look
            black.
      Vera Cruz—May the victory there gained never he tarui.shed
             by future defeats
      The Midshipmen of the Constitution—May wa always thrash
             our enemies as they did.
      The Prince of Navigation—Lieutenant Wilkea.
                             ^                          A

         While Columbia's sons compose the bold crew
      '. Of America, to loyalty, justice, and liberty true,
      While the standard united from her mast's unfurl d
        May she ride Preedom's three-docker.
      The glory and hope of a woi'dering world.
      General Mercer and the American patriots
      The majesty of the people of America.
                Hero's to oirr naval heroes.
                   And to their gallant tars,
                 And may our young ones, like the old.
                   Despise both wounds and scars ;
                 May they let the foe, on every sea >
                  By skill and courage hnow.
                 That liberty their freight shall be.
                     While ocean's billows flow.

         Here's to the tar ! a tough strong soul.
         Fanned by a brisk and favoring g.ale.
         Health, and wealth, and ready rhino
         To every tar that you and I know ;

         Should on enemy's fleet ere cross the sea.
         May they cast their death's anchor and there let them bo.
       Grog, grub, and glory to every tar who fights beneath the Am
              erican flag.
        Our Musquito Fleets in the Mexican war—They proved galley-
              nippers to the enemy.



rr:
             SOiOtiitUj'       SAIIiOha' TOASia.

To the tar that fights bravely—may ho bo rewarded nobly,
To the memory of him who cried, "Don't give up the ship,"
—may our seamen never forget or give up the glorious motto.
Hay the example of our glorious Hull ever inspire our seamen.
Hay the heroic spirit of our naval heroes never bo wanting.
The Patriotic Committee of old Congress Hall, who reported in
      favor of the Declaration of Independence.
The immortal memor3' of Hull, Jones, and Brainbridgo—may
      all our seamen emulate their glorious virtues.
America's hope-anchor.—Her timbers and her tars.
The bravo Commodore Decatur, with those who fought under
      Ijim and mourned over him.
Hay ■wa uover lack a Stewart or a Perry to show the enemy wo
      can beat them at all times and in all weathers.
Puty at sea, and sweethearts at home.
Hay the foes of our country want the food to feed their enmi
Hay America's name and America's fame stand great and free,
    memory of the gallant Pole, Pulaski, and those true liber-
   ® ty.poles who fell with him at Charleston,
   tlie memory of the brave Lord Sterling, and the sterling
      sons of liberty who fell with him at Honmouth.
    sea-ports and our ships' port-holes—Hay they ever have a
    ® war-dog to bark the flesh of an approaching foe.
     Soldier—Long marches, foul rations, damp powder, and
      deaf ears tc the invaders of America.
„ Volunteer Troops of America—The right arm of our liber-
  " ty and a model to the world.
The Regulars of the American Army-Their hearts never flag,
      and their flag never falls.
The Hilitary Discipline of America—The model and terror of
      the world,
Hay the olive oil of peace prove a ba'm for th# wounds of war.
                      BOLUIKKS' AND SAtLOSS' •i'OASTS.

    May every American fight to protect and conquer to sara.
    May every Amerioan bear away his shield or be borne on it.
    May the memory of the immortal Perry inspire every American
          sailor to meet the enemy and make them ours.
    The American Volunteers—May they ever bo ready to receive
          the cnemj' in good style.
    Rhino, health and a snug berth to every American tar.
    All those who have fought and bled for our country.
    Our Glorious Navy—The world's wonder, and the nation's
          pride.
    America's Sheet Anchor—Her unconquered tars.
    Our nav.al officers and the brave sailors who so nobly seconded
          them.

      Commerce and trade always protected,
      And American seamen never neglected.
    America expecl.s that every man will do his duty.
    America's Pride—Her men-of-war.
    Long may every foe tremble and every friend rejoice at the ar
         rival of an American squadron.
    May the American soldier never turn his bayonet against his
          own countrj'men.
    May the green laurels of our country never fade through age,
          be blighted by cruelty to the vanquished, or be obtained
       ^ but by honor.
p   The iVmerican Navy—may its flag always prove the harbinger
          of defeat to our enemies, and of confidence and safety to
          our friends.
    May our soldiers and cowardice never bivouac on the same
          grouud.s.
    Maj- true American hands have true .American hearts.
    More staunch shijis for America and le.ss for her enemies.




                              "il »;■ "kisMiMliJ
                         Lovers' toasts.

        every Ainerienn eailor fight bravely anrl be rewarded lion
         orably.
  iSIay no true son of Neptune ever fiiiudi from his gun.
  May our brave tars never get in the doldrums.
                   May the world wonder
                   At American thunder.
    Liet our sailors forever jirovu hu d.s of the main.
    And the .spirit of Lawrence entlame them again.
  Let the thunder of our cannon bo as terrible to or-r enemies as
        the bolts of Jupiter.
 Let our national ships bear our naval thunder over every sea.
 Let the army and navy of America'over maintain their accus
        tomed superiority over every foe.
 May the battles of Bunker Hill and Buena 'Vista never be suf
       fered to fall into oblivion.
 May American liberty over be defended by her bi-ave hearts of
       oak.

 Forever may our ofi3cer.s aud men be valiant and brars.
   And our commodores constant and true.
 May they stand by their guns, our rights to maintain,
  jUd fight for their country's true blue.




                LOVEKS' toasts.


May the union of persons be always founded on that of hp«rl«..
May the temper of our wives be stiited to those of their Ifu^
      band.
 May those who love truty be always believed,
 And tho.se -n'ho deceive us bo always deceived.
                        LO'S'ERS' TOASTS.

IVIaj- a virtuous oaapring succeed to mutual and honorable love.
May the confidence of love be rewarded with constancy m it.i
      object.

May the presence of the virtuous, curb the wish of the licen
      tious.

May the honorable lover be blessed with the dear object of his
      "wisbes.

May the Tvings of love never lose a feather.
May the lovers of the fair sex be ever modest, faithful and
      fond.
Success to the lover, and joy to the beloved.
Sweetbriars, and the agreeable rubs of life.
The lass we like, and the friends we can trust.
The single married, and the married happy,
The fountain of love in all its purity.
The companions of beauty—Modesty and Love.
The pleasures of imagination realized.
The greatest blessing heaven oan send—a good wife.
The pillars of love—kindness and constancy.
The face that nature paints, and the heart that knows no de
       ceit.

The maiden's blush, the token of innocence.
 When love attacks the heart, may honor be the proposer of a
       truce.

 Delicious nights to every virtuous heart
 Constancy in love, and sincerity in friendship.
 Sense to win a heart, and merit to keep it.
 May the blush of conscious innocence ever deck the faces ef
        the American fair.
 May our joys with the fair give refined pleasure to the heart,
 ilay the generous heart ever meet a chaste mate.
                            I.O\'EBS   TOASTS.


   I'll toast Scotia's daughters, let all fill thoir glasses,
   Whoso beauty and virtue the whole world surpasses,
   !May blessings attend them go wherever they will.
   An'foul fa' the man that e'er offers them ill.
 Love in every breast, liberty in every heart, le.arniug in every
        head.
 Love's slavery.
 Love, liberty, and length of blissful day.=.
 Long life, piire love, and boundless liberty.
 Love without fear and life vithout care.
Life, love, liberty and true friendship.
Love to one, good wishes to many, hatred to none.
Love for love.
May the fire of love ever burn bright.
May the lovers of the lair sex never want means to support and
       to defend them*
          .               that which unbends tho force of thought—
May we give way to tnai/
       Love!
              .      \    rohfi a daughter of her virtue outlive ev-
May the villain who roDS a             b
       ery friend.
Maythejoyso.'r t.ii, lAirb
                      r.,ir oive B
                                 pleasure to every heart
                 ,■ ,
Maythespiu-hsollo^cmo      brighten into a flame.
           , TT          „over end in Lovers Quarrels.
May Lover's Vow.s never ena                         „
           1. u.,d
May those who uncl the
                   tne "Way to Get Married, find a Cora for
     the Heart Ache.
May we ,bo loved
           1   j i,,r
                 by those
                      tnose women
                            w     we lovo.
May we kiss whom we please, and please whom we kiss.
May the fair daughters of America be resplendent in virtue.
      beauty and honor.
The love of liberty, and the liberty of love.
The woman we love and the friend we can trust.
iiie liie vo :uve miu tnoae we lova
8iiioerity before marriago, and idelily afterwarux
All the pure joys that ove can give and cansioiiity anjoy.
A speedy union to every.ad and iass.
Beauty's best companion—Modesty.
Charms to strike he -itght and merit to strike the hcait.
  Here's a health to the maid xat' J lonstant and kind.
  Who to charms bright as enus adds Biana's '"'udi
Laughing lovers to nerry n;iida
The spring of love and the aarveet of enjoyinoaii
Love in a cottage, and envy to none.
Beauty without aflfectation, and virtue without pSiaua.
Bays of ease and nights pleasure^
Love without licentiousness, and pleasure bRi'iOUt ex.esi
May the trusting fair onOj;.ver oe deceived 'oy the >,ud .ranoes
      of love.
Bfey love r.:id reason bo friends, and beauty and prudence
      marry.                       ~
May the streams of raptura meet each other, and seize life in
      the middle current.
The roses of love without the thorns.




               PAT EJ OTIC TOASTS.

May the American eagle ever maintain its lofty position.
May Americans be ever the first to conquer and to save.
May our country always be the casket of science.
.May every true American be possessed of peace and plenty.
 May every Amerienu act the Patriot's part
                       yATKtOTlO TOASTS.


 America—the land where hearts of heroes glow.
 ■\Vhat every American loves most—his liberty, his lasis, and liia
        native land.
 Our beloved country, and success to her arms by sea and laud.
 May the Union always live in the hearts of our people.
 May the Constitution flouri-sh and jjro.sper to the latest poster
       ity.
 Firmness in the senate, valor in the field, and fortitude on the
       waves.

 May the sword of justice be swayed by the hand ef mercy.
 May the seeds of dissension never find growth in the soil of
       America.

May the lowest freemen scorn the highest slave.
May the"VForth of the nation be over inestimable.
The commerce of our country.
The true American favorites, peace and plenty.
A speedy export to all our enemies without a drawback.
Mav the people of the United States be ever eq.ially distin
       guished by their love of liberty and true patriotism.
May foreign principles never corrupt American manners.
Mav every succeeding century maintain the principles of the
      glorious revolution, enjoy the blessings of them, and
      transmit them to future ages unimpaired and improved.
May every American be loyal and find a loyal protection.
Mav the rights of America never be invaded by foreigners.
May America's hand be armed with the bolts of Jove.
May the American flag ever float over us, the Jack of pure pat
      riotism lead us ; and may the pennant of every American
      man-of-war serve as a cat-o-nine tails to whip our ene
      mies with.
May America's name and America's fame, stand forever pure.
May every merican be famed in war, and skilled in art.

                                                                     ' •I, >:
                                                f/*




                       ?AtMOTrO TOASTS,


      May Americans defencl their lands,
      Ever by unflinching hands.                d     .
           May America be ever free,
           The soil of truth and honesty
Our eagle's talons, and our people's talents
May the American eagle never play foul.
May our country never be regardless of the advantages which
      must arise from the cultivation of her own arts, her
      own manufactories, and her own soil.
May peace abide with the friends of America throughout the
      world.

 May the heart wither that does not bum,
 IVhen justice weeps o'er freedom's urn
May the example of America disenthral he world.
May the tree of liberty be planted by the hands of freemen.
If we ever find fault with Americ.an grounds, may its soil grow
      a birch to flog us.
The tree of liberty—may it be grafted on every stock through
      out the world.
Our eagle—whenever he sheds his feathers may every freeman
      receive a plume.
Our country—a teugh piece of metal from the mine of freedom,
      may it never bear the impression of fraud, ...r bend to
      tyranny.
The Banners of the States of the Union—Stars of the great fir
      mament of freedom—may they ever reflect the bright
      ness of each other, and form the milky way of human
      happiness.
The favored land of our fathers—America.
The glorious Revolution which turned a crown into a cap of
     liberty.
May the interest of the states and the nation never be thought
      distinct.
                           patriotic toasts.


May loyalty to our'tonntry flourish for ever.
May the territory of Columbia never be trampled by a foe.
May the adjective - victorious" be ever joined to the subsfan-
            "Columbia."
       live "Columbia.

Our constitution, as settled by the revolution.
Success to our flag by sea and land.
Short shoes and long corns tot
                           to the cnemie.s of our country.
                 f      sons be staunch and true, and cm
      daughters tauiuese
May the blossoms „euhertv            blighted.
                 of liber y never be,bhchted.
                                       , ,
                       f     American eagle tear her enemies.




  M.,rai."a «1'»"
    And liberty her sons enfold.
May the g1oryn nf America never cease to shine.
                      country be svithout stain.
May the honors o^
May America                              its lofty position.
    +1 A Aincn^
May tne                                America, surrounded by de-
             wor'shrppers from all quarters of the globe.
       , ■ „v,pre great "Washington was seated,
                                may the falsehoods and misrepres-
America, our na               pnomies redound to their shame and
      entations of her en
      her glory
      V   ruflrirTT.         ii. reach to the sky, and heaven's stars
The libel ty pole—may
      light on its cap.
Our land, our faith, our law.
Our country, rigbt or wrong-
                         PATRIOTIC TOASTS.



May the fortunes of America never be clipped by the shears of
      bad economy.
May reverence for the laws ever predominate in the hearts of
      the American people.
May the enemies of America never meet a friend in our coun
       try.
May our love for our country extend with its botindaries.
May American valor shine when every other light is out.
May the standard of America ever be crowned by the laurel of
       victory.
May the pleasures of Americans bo as pure as their breezes
       and their virtues firm as their hickory.
The sons and daughters of America, may their union be cem
       ented by love and affection, and their offspring adorn the
       stations they are destined to fill.
A health to those ladies who set the example of wearing Amer-
      ing productions.
American virtue—may it always find a protector but never need
      one.

The American Navy—the pride of the sea.
An American's castle—his house, may it stand for ever.
American produce—may it ever exceed its consumption.
America's Toast—lovely women and brave men.
America and may the land of our nativity be always the
      abode of freemen.
American Belles and American Fashions.
Americans in unity, and unity in Americans!
Our country's glory, and may it last till the end of time.
May every American's hand bo hostile to tyranny.
May Americans secure their conquests by clemency
May we as citizens, be free without faction.
                         OAsojoxie noASia                      ^

Amerioen birth and Amerioanveloe:
jnericci, lOiae,.        oeanl}'.
ftosperity and union to aii tha States,
              - -• -3ca-tj.o ear astion,.
         ^oaiusion io ioi- jusmiec,
         And he that will no'j pbdga her heaith:
         ■' -Tch hin^noithDr vrli nor ■wiolth,
         Nor yet a rope to hnng himself.
         With hearts and with glasses full to brim,
         ijet s sing Oolumbia's glorious hymn.
America—tic                   governments, and cho pride o
         T.'orid.
    If      n the President, prosperity to the peop.e, ana may
^ OOTgress direct their jndeavors to the public good, ra-
         tnsr than engage in party distinctions.
Here's a heattn to brother Jonathan, when bo's gone wc shant
                           every American : content and -oiearure.
^"■^"the Sng                   ^nutate toerirtnes or our orefather.
Hay our^ sons
           „»ha
              oe honest
                 "      and brave, and our- daughters modest
         and fair.                               .   , ,   ■       ,
Hay            who would
                    dance revel  in the neckcloth.
                           in a hempen  rum of America or her

Hay the"stronger
         i,nuaer ggrowth of the American union never be pre-
         vented by party spi"'-
                    of Washington, and may every man in power,
The                  admires his deeds and his character, strive to
         emulate both.
 The                  ^""whtl^es his laws and nation.
           And shuns each vile association.
 That trusts his honest deeds ^
 Nor meets in dark cabals at night
                        PATRIOTIC TOASTS.

The President and Congress.
To the memory ef all those who fought and bleed in our greak
     and victorious slruggloss for libertj-, honor and justice.
American virtue and honor before foreign libertinism and
       skepticism.                  ,
The 56 Signers of the Declaration of Independence, so heavy
       that Johnny Bull could not lift it.
Our Eepublic—Hay it outlive the people, and may the people
       outlive the earth.
Tlie good Constitution of the United States—A bad constitu
      tion to those who don't like it.
An American passport to travel with, and the American con
      stitution for a companion.
The snow-capped mountains of America, an emblem of the na
      tion's purity ; may they stand for ever.
The protectors of Commerce, and protectors of charity in our
      cities and towns, utility and success to everyone of them
The health of the soul, the mind, and the body.
May America, a globe within her.?elf, roll forever on the axis of
      liberty.
May the sous of America never forget the struggles of their
      fathers, and the fortitude of their motherj.
America, though her cradles on the deep may rook, stiU the
      foe shall never find her sous asleep.
Our land, our lakes, and skies, our timber and supplies.
                             i-ieeman's toasts.




pt'
                    fibemen^s toasts.
                   ^     Tho sentinels of our homes ; may they ever find
         ^Ts'^ntry-bo:'in our bcarte.
                „ _Mny the ladies nerer cast cold water on the
         ^flimes of their affections.
                  oeta chant in wild enraptured lays,
                          valor, or the soldier's praise,
       The aea               claims my present toast;
       X                 Firemen, our city's boast T'
       It is :
                   «,an never be in want of hose, and may ho never

                    t be water-proof, his flesh be fire-proof, his bones
      May hi3 ^^jyre-proof, and his spirits hefourth proof.
      The         t {ijgua
                     the Fireman—The     first
                           (beUes). and the    toto
                                            last bebe
                                                    moved
                                                      deafby
                                                          to tho
                                                             theirsound
                                                                    call.
      The                 they toast each other's names.
        In             their friend, their only foe—the flames.
                 never be toasted save by the glass of his friends,
                 nove*       except with ardor for the public safety.
                       « Mav their names be recorded in letters of gold
                       the bright roll of immortality,
                        eaking-trumpets arouse the sleeping, in the hour
       May             ^       tbe trump of the archangel shall awake tho
                 of danger, »=
                 dead.
                       .. t ginrs on parade, and rainbows of hope in the
                            danger.

                or,'H four A's—Awake, Away, Arrest, Assuage.
       The Firemen B lom
                         i'LKEJIAN'S TOASTS.


  Fjremen-s Visits—May they continue to meet as friends, and to
        part as brothers.
  May they travel tare free, and meet free fare, and smiling fair
        ones wherever they go.
 May he who would injure any Fire Department, have a parch-
        ed tongue and only putrid water to cool it.
 The Fireman—Awake at all hours, warm-hearted in all weath-
        ers, and ready at all times.
 Good attachment, free plugs, full pumps, and fair play to aU
       true firemen.
 Firemen-Tho heroes that never invade and never retreat
 May the wretch who would cut their hose be cut by all society
       and never come again.
 The Fireman—His heart is guided by the great Fereman over
      low °                     property of his children be-
The ^"eman s Hat—more honorable than a monarch's crown,
       nobi                                    more useful and

      need hrs aid and the last to •
                                   he"■■■•
                                      served»"■"».
                                              by him.
                                                   ■>•   »-• •<>


               smoke, and cheer the toilingfireman.
    F^emansCompass-Forall points, and honor points to
                              "^ever find fuel in the hearts of


The O^rphans of Firemen-May they find a friend in every
The Firemen T]in t i
      <irummiug out°                     no drumming up nor
                       tireman's toasts.

The Kremsn's Widow-May the memory of her husband's
     services prove her passport to every habitation, and win
      her a welcome in every heart.
The Memory of Benjamin Franklin-Tho-first Philadelphia
      Fireman, who taught the worl^d how o conquer the elec-
      Wo fire, and the devastating flame of tyirany.
The"Machine
    preserves"-The
              what allgreatest of all pieces
                        other engines        of mechanism-it
                                       produce.
     J         •« Badce-More valuable than a kings regalia.
                r       ■Rope-EiM'er than the team of Sesostns.
The Firemen                            harnessed kings.
                    '= Wife that helps him on with his equipments.
 To the Fireman^^^^                     ^                        ^
           ^             . rri.p Armv that draws water instead of

                 f,v,ildren-May they always find hearts that can

 The Dead Fi/eman-                          smoking pile.
     ^"'''lE^o^his brow, but on his lips a smile.
     Y'Tm°d the ruins they the features scan
     ^ wt friend and brother Fireman.
     ^Siu.h his form lies black upon the bier,
     gs nobi: soul is bright in yonder sphere.
           T''




                                 MrSOELLANEOTTi.




            Miscellaneous toasts,
   May the folly of those who ape the manners of the great be held
          np to ridicule,
  May opinion never float on the waves of ignorance.
        ""row"^                          ""Id backward without sor-
  May                ever evince the believe that honesty is the best

                  ^'^be early dawuings of merit,
   elicate pleasures to susceptible minds.
 May merit never bo compelled to beg for reward,
      tbe honest heart never feel distress,
   ay we ne^er break a joke or crack a reputation.
 May the plZur^s!f you^aff T                              niisfortune.
 May health paint the                                         age.
 May bashful merit ris'e to f
        contempt.                ^vor, and daring insolence sink to
•May the wealth of ror«,    •■
May fortune fill the cZ T
May our injuries be w^-fT
     marble.             ' ^         sand, and our friendships in/
May our endea-.-ors to nle
May the morning of                  always crowned with success.
May we never want ^ k              shine on the evening of adversity-
Henty to the genero^ ^inT"'
                        MISOELLANEOTTB.



The mot that feels for sorrows not his own.
Sunshine and good humor all tho world over.
May the bud of sincerity ever blossom of friendship.
May the pleasures of return bear up the nbsint.
May our wants be reduced and our comforts mcrc.ased.
Humanity in prosperity, and fortitude indistre.ss.
May the suashine of comfort dispel the cloud of care.
May we never know want till relief is at hand.
Gratitude to remember, and sense to forget.
AMerit
   blushassi.sted -and to
          of detection knaves   twisted.
                          the lovers of deceit.
All fortune-s daughters eveept the eldest-d/iss-Fortune.
All our wants supplied, and our virtuous wishes satisfied.
Conscious honor, when peaceof mind is absent
Conscious
Every  thinginnocence,
               of fortuneand
                          but constant independence.
                              her instability
Freedom  to those who dare contend for it
Frugality without meannes.s.
Great men honest, and honest men great
Good luck till we are tired of It
Gratitude to acknowledge favors done.     ,            ,
   , T. nhappiness,
Health,    ...^iness riches,
                     n . and a good wite.
                                      ^ ,                    A'
May virtue find forlnne always an attendant.
May reality strengthen
Ma^armony      arise fromthethejoysashes
                                     of imagination.
                                         of discord.
May temptation never conquer virtue
                discretion be our pilots.
May wisdom and dis
May we always feel for
                   1 another s distress.
                                    * cvc
May we act our parts well
                     wen oon the theatre of life.
                 „tod and die regretted.
May we live respected, anu ui r,
Good trade and well paid.




                                     la.'
                                                                       ■f '   9




                                 MI8OELLANEO0S.


        Gaiety and innocence.
        However obscure we are oy birth, may we never be jenoismed
                for crimes,
        Heaven to those who wish for it, repentance to those who do
            ,   not.

        Hastiness in doing good, tardiness in doing evil.                         ^
        May we always see our neighbor's distress with an eye of com
                passion.
        Honest men and bonny lassies.
        Harmony all over the world.
       Humanity in prosperity, and fortitude in distress.
       Health of body, jjeace of mind, a clean shirt, and a dollar.
       Integrity in those who wear the robe of-justice.
       In the comedy of life may errors be excepted.                                  ;
         Long may wo live, and happy'may we be.
         Blest with content, and from misfortunes free.
       Jlay the mind never find the decay of the body.
       May the rich bo charitable, and the poor grateful.
       May the fiery trials of adversity lead us to scenes of bliss,
       May meanness never accompany riches.
       May we never be blind to our own errors.
       May our bosoms ever be warmed with pity.
       May wo never be the slaves of interest or pride".
       May care be a stranger where virtue resides.
       May we cherish hope, and conquer fear.
       May generosity meet its own reward.
       May the tears of sensibility never cease to flow.
       May wo bo slaves to nothing but our duty.
if
V'i<   May wo never feel want, or want feeling.
       May hemp bind those whom honor cannot,
       M.ay our happiness be sincere and our joys lasting.
       Maj we never know sorrow but by name.
                         miscellaneous.

 May we always look forward for better things, but never be
       discontented with the present.
 May the honey of rectitude sweeten the bitterness of sorrow.
 May the cheerful heart never want a companion.
 May we never sacrifice at the shrine of deceit.
 May the law of humanity be put in force against the perpetra,
       trators of cruelty.
May poverty never stare us in the face,without presenting hope
       as her successor.                                    o   ^

May our wants be sown in Ko      uitfuli a soil as to produce im
       mediate relief.
M.y ..r principle, p.


May we never envy tho^ft            i
      imitate them              «re happy, but always strive to
    "mrrmur"""""''                        nor ever have cause to
May we derive ammsement            , .
     . from pleasure.              Inisiness, and improvement
May we never malio a sword of nui- f
     actor of good men.               tongues to wound the char-
May private grief never atTe.-t ,he p„,,iie
May higotry, superstition, and all mam,„, r      •
     soon come to an end.                   religious tyiTany,
May the poor merit esteem, and the rid,
                                          1 eneration.
May honesty never want a comiieteucy
May the hand of lenity heal the sores of calamity
May we be always as merry as wise, and wise as merry.
May our conduct be such as to hear the strictest scrutiny
May industry be always rewarded as the favorite of fortune.
May we live during life.
                       idiSOELIAKEOUa.


May length of daya be crow^ned with prudence.
May wo always bo in possession of the power to pleaao*
May we live long and enjoy the providence of heaven.
May our loolts never be at variance with our thoughts.
May the good name that Is lost be always retrieved.
May we always delight to please.
May our pleasures be free from the stings of remorse.
May the miser live unfriended and die nnlamented.
May misfortunes make us wise.
May the extremes of fashion bo only imitated by fools.
May honest dullness bo always preferred to learned arrogance.
May those who are not of humble birth be of humble mind.
Ma}' the body be as active as tho miud.
May wo never suffer for principles we do not hold.
Alay the new year heli^ to make us old.
May the prison gloom be cheered by the rays of hope, and lib,
      erty fetter the arms of oppression.
May vanity be punished by inattention, and merit be rowardod
      by respect.
May obscure merit raise its crest.
May might never overcome right.
May wo always be bomb-proof against villany.
May we never want courage when put to the shift
May we strive to avoid law as we do-the devil.
May we live in pleasure and die out of debt.
May we never cease to deserve well of our country.
May the journey through life be sweet as short.
May the benevolent never know poverty.
May justice overtake oppression.
May pleasure tempt and virtue move.
M <rcyto the vanquished, and mimshment to the rebellious
                                                       ijl.l '"."IBIW




                       SnSCELL-illEOtlS.



 May the road to happiness bo free from toll bars.
 May caro be a stranger to the honest heart.
 May the faults of our neighbors bo hidden, and their virtues
       glaring.
|May we do as we would be done by.
 May the desires of our hearts be virtuous, and those desires
       gratified.
May health paint the cheek and sincerity the heart.
May we always command success by deserving it.
May he that made the devil take us all.
May every honest man turn out a rogue.
May wo never be lost to hope.
May poverty bo ever a day's march behind us.
May we always moan well and act accordingly.
May we bo kind—but not in words alone.
May good nature and good sense ever be united.
M.aj- goodness prevail when beauty fails.
May we shine in science, genius, and arts.
May generosity never bo overtaken by poverty.
M.iy we bo h.appy and our enemies know it.
Ma\ our pleasures bo present, and our sorrows be distant.
May our atHictions bring our virtues into practice.
May we be silent on the follies of others, which, at a certain pe
      riod of our life, we were guilty of ourselves.
May we be alwaj's able to distinguish those, who, by a steady
      and uniform adherence to their duty, distinguish them
      selves.
May wo never have cause to put on mourniufr.
May our pleasures be boundless while we have time to enjoy
       them.

M^y tve never be so base as to envy the happiness of others.
                             illSCELLANEOUS.

 May the men leave roaming^ and the women deceit.
 May the men we love be honest—and the land We live in free.
 May the polished heart make amends for a rougli face.
 May every smooth face proclaim a smoother heart.
 May the judgment of our judges never be biassed.
 M.ay every day bring more happiness than yesterday.
 May the joys of money never make us forget the true Christian
       duties.
May ave always part with regret, but meet with pleasure.
May those who fall by misfortune be'lifted by the haad of reaj
       friendship.
May artificial coloring be always perceived through every veil
       disguise.
May filial piety be ever the result of a religious education.
May solid honor soon take place of seeming religion.
May we live happy and die in peace,
May noise and nonsense be ever banished from social company.
May the unsuspecting man never be deceived,
May a happy opportunity never be neglected.
}Iay we never make matrimony a matter of money.
May depressed merit soon be exalted.
May honesty never be ashamed of an un.ashiouable garment.
  y he who has spirit to resent a wrong, have a heart to for
      give.
    tbc bud      o fV   L'
          ^      ^Hectiou ripen by the sunshine of sincerity.
  ay our girls prove chaste and our wives faithful.
May we never seek n
                 otnor persons lives by venturing our own.
May conquest cro
                    "■I'd mercy sanctify the sword of justice.
        ry mirror we look at cast an honest reflection.
May reason be entk
         ,    , ""^ironed a supremo monarch, and our pan.
      ^■ons subject to his laws.
                            MT8CELLA>i:0U8.


 May virtue increase her exports and imports and vice become
        a bankrupt.
 May •wisdom be the umpire when pleasure gives the prize.
 May the difference of all creeds be ever left at the gate of
        prayer.
May the sure road of discretion ever lead ns the way to tran
        quil repose.
May poverty of spirit ever prohibit the miserly accumulation
        of riches from the sweets of social life.
May the misfartunes of others be always carefully examined as
       the chart of our conduct.
    y honor always allow honesty the duty due to a parent.
    y the deformity of other men's vices teach us to abhor our
        own.

        e be more ready to correct our own faults than to pub
       lish the faults of others.                                ^   A'   i-it

       ^ never speak to deceive, nor listen to betray.
   y P p^ity ever bo the attendant of a humane and benevo
       lent heart.
^y he who wishes to deceive, ever be deceived.
   ^ ttd^rsiT^^^'eady to resist the assaults of prosperity and
       May those who flatter to betray
     Meet a reward in their own way.
M y the ascent ofinnocence show clearly the descentof infamy
A hand to earn and a heart to spend.
All tales bnt tell-tales.
A cordial in grief—content.
All charitable institutions.
Desire and ability to do go good.
Emulation in virtuoua breasts.
Faith in every kind of oommeToe^
                          jinscELLAOTora.


Prom discord may harmony arise.
En^ y in an air-pump, without n passage to breathe through.
Prosperity to all good folks, and reformation to all bad ones.
Let Us enjoy a city life without entering into its follies.
American Beans, Beauty, Buckwheat and Bravery—may wo
      never be without them.
American Beef may wo always have a steak,-a spare-rib, and a
      rib to spare.
Tbe country lasses, and the lads worthy of them.
Let every man be distinguished for his virtue instead of his
      birth.
The trade and commerce of the States.
The Memory of Robert Burns.
               Caledonia—stern and wild,
               Fit nurse for a poetio child.
               When Scotland's far afif bairns.
                Aye think upon their mither.
               The mosses, waters, slap., and cairns,
The xtadies-              blooming heather.
      For though they almost blush to reign,
      Tho' Love's own flowers wreathe the chain.
      Disguise the bondage a we will,
       Tis woman, woman, rules us still.
      Come fill the glass and drain the bowt
        Let Love and Bacchus still agree,
       n every American warm his soul
        With Cupid, 'Wine, and Liberty.
 he Poete of America—Second to those of no other country in      /.'I
      talent or noble purpose.
The Plough Itn one share in a bank of earth is worth ten in a
      bank of paper.
 The "United States—Our common mother.
 Our Absent Friends—Though lost to sight to memory dear.
 A Free Press That which gives good proof of its worth, and
       adds to the columns of liberty.
Our Invited Guests—Welcomo visitors, who bring the kinde.st
        sympathies and grateful recollections of the Fatherland.
Our Kivers—Oh, may the smile of the Great Spirit, which, in
      the view of the poor Indian, is reflected upon their wa
     ters, ever be reflected by our happiness and prosperity.
Our Friends-Always welcome.
        n Let us not for^e that wherever man is most enlight-
fhe P                      respected and beloved.
 rViQ T>ress of Our Couutrj-—The
                       regulator ofengine
                                    moralofnudourpolitical
                                                  libertj', society,
                                                            the tor-
         or o yriints, and the schoolm.aster of the whole world.

The                      "^rer be popular and prosperous.
          ° amay
          en son it
                 ofbeNew
                      perpetual,
                         Englandnud mayboa
                                 shall  theforeigner
                                            time never
                                                     in come
                                                        New
                     Creole a foreigner in New England.
          Gentle, patient, self-den3'ing; without her man would
Tb T A-" Alw.ayg favorable to a press properly conducted.
           ^ ^Ik'^tress of Arts, who robs the bachelor of his de-
      curLrioctumr                      philosophy by means of
Long youth, long health, long pleasure, and long friendships.
Our Pestu-al Recurring with each year's renewal of verdure
      audbloom--long time may it be to us the spring-time
      of hope; while we live itsball bo sacred to the commem
      oration of heroic faith and patriotic devotion.
American Talent,Industry, and Enterprise--Whether display
     ed in redeeming the soil, navigating the ocean, edvan-
                         MiaCELLA-NEODS.



          ciug science, improving tlie arts, or in establishing
          republican institutions.
The Ladies—We admire them for their beauty, respect them
      for their intelligence, adore them for their virtue, and
      love them because we can't help it.
The Press—Faithful and fearless in the support of the free
      principles of our free people, we hail with pleasure the
       presence of one of its brightest ornaments.
Success to the farmers of America—and may they always gath
      er a golden harvest.
The Ladies—The honor of a lady is her nams, and no legacy is
      so rich as honesty.
The Ladies—Without whose aid the race of soldiers would be
      come extinct: they are the sweetners of our recreations,
      the alleviators of our toils and troubles, and the great
      inciters to noble deeds and gallant acts. "None but
      the brave deserve the fair '
Hastiness in doing good, and tardiness in doing evil,
luiprovements in our arts, and invention to our artists
The spring of love, and the harvest of enjoyment.
Beauty without aflectatiou. and virtue without parade.
Love without licentiousness,and pleasure without excess
Charms to strike the sight, and merit to win the heart.
Love to all, friendship to a few, and goodwill to all.
Tlie Greatest Blessing Heaven can send—A Good Wife.
Fidelity to our friends and grace to our enemies.
                Let us care for no man.
                If no man cares for us.
     rish Anacreon, and bard of Bacchus and Bove—Moord.
     1 w e breathe in this world may we taste the delignt
  And n freemen drink
                 virtueboth
                        can by
                            only impart,
                               day and by night,
      o a brotherly friend and the girl of our heart.
                                                 X,




                  JIISCELLISEOUS.

    The three A's—
      Abundance, abstinence, and annihilation.
      Abundance to the poor.
      Abstinence to the intemperate.
      Annihilation to the wicked.
    The throe B's—
     Bachelors, bann.s, and buns.
     Bachelors for the maidens.
     Banns for the bachelors.
     Buns come after the banns.
  The throe C's
     Cheerfulness, content and competency.
     Cheerfulness in our cups.
     Content in our minds.
     Competency in our pockets.
  The throe B's—
    Tirmness, freedom, and fortitude,
     "irmncss in the senate,
    Freedom on land.
    Fortitude on the waters.
 The three B's—
   Friendship, feeling, and fidelity,
     riendship without interest,
     eeling to our enemies.
   Fidelity to our friends.
 The three P's—
   Fat, fair, and forty.
The three generals in peace—
- General peace,
 V General plenty.
  General satisfaction.
The throe generals in power
  General omployment.
                        MISCELLANEOUS.



         General industry,
          General comfort.

       The three H's—
         Health, honor, and happiness
         Health to all the M-orld,
         Honor to those who seek for ii
         Happiness in our homes.
       The three L's—
         Love, Life, and Liberty.
         Love pure,
         Life long.
         Liberty boundless.
       The three M's—
         llirth, music, and moderation.
         llirth at every board.
          Music in all instruments.
         Moderation in all our desires.
       The three M's—                                       *
         Mode.stj", moderation, and mutuality,
         Modesty in our discourse.
         Moderation in our wishes.
         Mutuality in our friends.
The Four Boxes that Govern the AVorld—The cartridge-boxi
      the ballot-box, the jury-box, and the band-box.
May friendship, love, and truth unite.
Our Absent Fricnds--God bless them.
May the friendly .soul never want a faithful bosom.
May mirth exalt the feast.
Our Noble Selves—May we never be less.
May we always be ready to give the devil his due.
May the youth of our country ever walk in the paths of virtue.
      honor and truth
                      MISCELLANEOUS.



Friondship in mnrblo irnd ani nosity in the dust
May the evening's amusements bear the morning's reflections.
May -we have those in our arms that wo love in oiir hearts.
May those who mean well faro well.
May our endeavors to please bo crowned with success.
May the shield of friendship ward off the arrows of affliction.
  May the blossoms of love never bo blighted,
  And a true-hearted girl never bo slighted.
May the hinges of friendship never rust.
A heart to feel, and a hand to give.
Our Oak—The pride of the forest when living, and the pride
      of the ocean when dead.
May friendship be enlightened by good humor,but never be
      Wounded by wit.
Youthful Tassions—Lot them be ever kept in proper restraint.
The Bank ofEarth—The only bank that there is no discount on.
             Hero's to ghl-s of every station.
             Throughout our Yankee nation.
The Cheats of America—Punished with their own poison..
                  A toast before we go.
                 Huzza for America, ho!
Tne Trade of America The Workshop of the World : Let its
      prosperity become as unbounded as its re.sources and in
      dustry are unlimited.
The Daughters of America—may they add virtue to beauty,
      subtract envy from friendsliip, multiply amiat>lo accom-
      plisbinents by sweetness of temper, divide time by soci
      ability and economy, and reduce scandal to its lowest
      denomination.
Virtue—It shines though contemptibly clad, and is recognized
      and re.spected by noble minds.
Literature—The avenue to glory, ever open to these ingenious
      wen who are de.stituto of honors and of wealth.
                         wn




                                           FRIENDSHIP.



                Contentment—The poor man who patiently endures his want
                      is rich enough.
                Liberty of Conscience—A natural right, autl ho that would
                     claim it for himself must bo willing to grant it to others.
                Happiness—A bird that knows no cage but the bosom.
                Love iu every heart, liberty in every breast, and learning in ev
                      ery head.
                Good wine and good company to the lovers of reasonable en-
                      jo3'iuent.
                     "We meet to be merry, then let u.s part wise.
/v . 'Msj.,".        Nor suffer the bottle to blind reason'.s ej'es.
                Behavior—The best knowledge of behavior and converso is in
                     observing decencies.
                Real Victories—Ho that overcomes his passions, overcomes his
                      greatest euemie .




                                    FRIENDSHIP,


                Disinterested friendship and artless love.
                Friendship without interest, and love without deceit.
                Fidelity to our friends and grace to our enemies.            -
                Friendship iu a palace, and falsehood in a dungeon.
                Heaven's best gift—a Friend.
                 I ratitude to preserve old friends, and good behavior to pro
                      cure new ones.

                In friendship and love may we never know vexation.
                May fvieudship never give way to selfishness.
                May the gales of consolation be ever open to the children of
                      aflliction.
                ?''-iy or-""ta never injure a friend.
                          I'hrENDSHIP.


May we be friendly and sooiai to all mankind.
May the bark of Friendship never founder on the rock or de
       ceit.
May we frown sorrows in the friendly draught
May we be rich in friends rather than money.
May he who wants friendship also want friends.
May friendship, love and truth unite.
May we never, by overleaping the bounds of prudence, tress-
       pa.s3 upon the bosom of friendsliip.
May wo never want a friend to cheer us, nor a buttle to cheer
       him.
May old friends never bo forgot for new ones.
May our friends have no burden, and futurity no terrors.
May the lamp of friendship be lighted with the oil of sincerity.
May we always have a friend and know his value.
May all honest souls find a frieud in need.
May our friends always possess the three H-s~Hcalth, Honor,
            Happiue,,
Abihty to servo a friend, and honor to conceal it
May the difference of opinion never divide friendship.    , ,,
May friend.ship sniiia in our cups, content on our lives.
May our prudence secure u-s frieuds, hut enable us to live
     ^'itbout their assrstauce.
May our friendship bo perpetual, and our enemies not so.
Our favorite Iriencls and favorite girl.
Reconciliation to our friends.
The sunshine of the soul-a Friend.
Our absent friends.
Home pleasant, and our frienAs at homo.
May we never see an old friend with a new faoe.
May our friendship continue as long as the sun.
Friendsbip without intorest, and lovo without deceit.
The resurrection of friendship, and the funeral of animosity-
May he that turns his back on his friends, fall into the hands
      of his enemies.

May the friendly bosom never want a faithful friend.



                     SPORTING.

May our hounds, horses, and hearts never fail us.
May every fox-hunter be well mounted.
May these who love the crack of a whip never want a brush to
      pursue.                                                    W

May tho heart of a sportsman never know alBiction but by
      name.

May the lovers of the chase never want the comfort; of life.
The gallant huntsman that plunges into the deep in pursuit oi
      his game.


                          THE END,
     -lys- ■r-'':.'^'
           vf'-
                           /• •




                                                '*■»• •?   '.' ■'


                        v . ' -h'J' I
                                        1 'U>




                                    'W
                                        :<■
                               I '■•* "•




                                                                    .   I   -   'ii' '/;■ .Vi 'kv .«!#«
                    i      '




V


V'
i
                                           .1




                         4ii ['"tfir III
          BEST EDITIONS OF BEST BOOKS.


 Hurst k Co.'s jlpproved Editions
        STANDARD AUTHORS.

 Arlington Edition of British Glassies.
     Robinson Crusoe.
         Arabian Nights.
             Pilgrims'Progress.
                       Moore's Poetical Works.
                           Burn's Poetical Works.
                                 Dante.
                                             Pope's Poetical Works.
              Printed and Bound in the best style. Price $1 each.

          Hupst 6c Co.'s Useful Boolcs.
     Chambers' Information for the Million.
        One Hundred Years of a Nation's Life; or.
           The Patriots and Statesmen of the United States.
     Common Sense in the Kitchen.
        Buffon's Natural History.
           The Poets of America.
              The Prose Writers of America.
                       Crabbs' Handy Cyclopedia.
                             Autobiogrraphy of Benjamin Franklin'.
     The Spectator,
          Amati^ur Amusements.
                I^iographical Sketches, by Harriet Martineau.
          Well Priri^ed, and Bound in best English Cloth Price ^1 each.
        HurErt.:;^ Co.'s Famous Juveniles.
     Boys'and Girls' Story Book.
              Santa Claus and His Friend. St. Nicholas.
                           Flowers from Fairy Land,
                                     Merry's Games and Rhymes.
           Handsomely bound in Cloth, Hlack and Gold. Price     each.
     Child's Own Story Book.
                        Our Chatterbox.
                                                       • Gift Book.
                                                            : rine Lt'ssons
                     r . r.ts .



                        UL        I   .                                   t<rk.
'L
