f•   i--" - •• ■<"   i»iii<"itS8liiii
                                        jiiAH«i*t*i* hv~«




                                                                   .^,vf'
                                                                        '/'-J
                                                                   i
                                                                   fen: -
                                                                                •r.
                                        iBOurs
                                                     .v,

                                                       i:
                                               M :!-)ii     -~'i




                                            1  1^
                                                                       [ :i'r


                                                        vv^;
I:
                                  FACTS
                                                                                           Id
                                                                                      *I
                             UPHOLDING             THE


                   INDEFEGTIBILITY
                                          OF




     THE "SPECIALITE" SHERRY      BY THE HIGHEST


          .   MEDICAL AISTD PUBLIC AUTHORITIES.
                           THREE MILLIONS
     of this xinique pamphlet have been issued. The latest Edition Is now forwarded
     free on application.
        "I^KEE PEOM ACIDITY AND HEAT."—British Medical Journal.
        "FREE from MINERAL ACID or INORGANIC MATTER not yielded
     ty Grapevluice."—Brofessor Bedwooi,Analyst to the\Pharmaceutical Society
     of Ch'eat Britain.
        "VALUABLE to INVALIDS and persons who have Gouty or Uric Acid
     tendencies."—Br.HIardwicke, Metropolitan Analyst, and Coronerfor Central
     Middlesex.
        "It has ATTAINED, and DESERVES a great MEDICAL REPUTA
     TION."—Medical Record.
        "To the meal of a patient suffering from DYSPEPSIA it would he
     VALUABLE."—Medical Times.
        JOHN WOOLCOTT,Esq.,F.R.C.S.,Founder of the Kent County Ophthal
     mic Hospital, writes:—"I enclose a cheque for your account, and I take this
     opportunity to testify concerning the excellent quality of your dry SPE-
     CIALITil SHERRY. I have been a great sufferer with gout, and for a long
     time I have been in search of a light Sherry, free from acid, which I might
     take and feel that it was doing me good instead of harm, and such I found
     your wine, and have recommended it extensively to my patients in conse
     quence."—Maitland House, Parade, Tunbridge Wells.
        The REV. SIR EDWARD JODRBLL, Bart., writes:—" I have the
     pleasure to forward to you Professor Redwood's (of the Pharmaceutical
     Society of Great Britain) Analysis, which says more than I can express. I am
     very particular as to the wine I drink, and as I have been hitherto buying
     everyday Sherry at 60s. a dozen, I am rejoiced to find now that I can purchase
     wine of equal body and superior bouquet at half that price. This should be
     known to the general public, and you can make any use you deem proper of
     this letter, and also of Professor Redwood's most elaborate analysis."
        The speciality SHERRY, "free from acidity and heat," has been
     exhibited as a Dietetic, is now adopted by many thousands of the Medical
     Profession for its valuable Dietetic qualities. SOs, Dozen. Carriage paid.
                   FELTOE                AND SONS,
     ALBUM A RLE ST., W., and 80, BISHOPSGATE ST., E.C.
                               list Mished 61 Tears,
 ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY'S'EXHIBITIONS,
3IAiTCHESTEE, 1869; OXFORD, 1870; ^OLVBRH^PTCW, 1^^
 CARDIFF, 1872; HULL, 1873; BEDFORD, 1874; TAUNTOH,187&,_^
             BIRMINGHAM, 1876; LIVERPOOL, 1877-




                              m
                                   mit

SPANISH                   WINE SHIPPERS,
      5 & 6, BUCEXEEsBTJET, CHEAPSIDB, e.g.;
                  13, OXEOED STEEET, W.;
  42, GLASSHOUSE STEEET, EEGEHT STEEET, W.;
           the aeghes, ludgate hell. E.g.,
                              LONDON.
        COMAIERCIAL buildings, cross STREET;
          barton arcade, ST. ANN'S SQUARE,
                           MANCHESTER.
                YORK RASSAGE, high STREET,
                            BIRMINGHAM.
                 11, EXCHANGE PLACE, SOUTH,
                               GLASGOW.

 WmE^ DRAWN FROM THE ORIGINAL CASKS,
                             AND SOLD BY THE

    DOCK SAMPLE GLASS, BOTTLE, DOZEN, OCTAVE, AND
                             QUARTER CASK.
 See"TIMES" SpccialJRoport and Leading Article,with other Notices ofthe Press.
               TO THE WHOLESALE TEABE ONLY.


           ACKERMAN -LAUEANCE,
               SAXmuR & REIMS, eatablialiecl 1811.


               SPARKLING CHAMPAGNE.

                        CAETE BLiJirOHE.

                        EXCELSIOR.
                        RESERVE OEVfilE.


                SPARKLING SAUMUR.
. /

/
                        CARTE EOIRE.
      "'fvV.               „      BEEUE.
       » ■ ,               „      BOSE.
                           >1     D'OR.*

                  •GOLD MEDALS-iggs, 18^, 185^


                 SPARKLING        RED SAUMUR.


                 For gambles and qtt^iationp apply to—
      LONDON OFFICE: 41, Grutciied Friars, E.G.
                                J. N. BISHOP, Resident Partner.
      Agent for Liverppol and NorthrWeBtem District;
                         B. J. SAYGE, 17, South Castle St.
      Agents for Scotland: JIcDOnOADL, Jun., & Co.,
                                  Faculty Euildiugs, Glasgow.
               BURROW'S
cs                                                 99
            JLm      X

UNEQUALLED EQE CONVENIENCE AND UTILITY.




           No Breakage.
           Every Bottle separate.
           Bins for 1, 2, 3 Bottles deep.
           No Laths required.
           Bottles Removahle from any part.
           Old Brick or Slate Bins Pitted.

 Cellars Pitted Complete in all parts of the "World.
             ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES
           SENT FREE BT THE PATENTEES,

 W. & J. BURROW, MALVERN.
                                                        ' ".sv ;;•«
                Just Beady, in 2 vols, demy 8vo,

                           ILLUSTRATED
    WITH FIFTY FULL-PAGE ENGRAVINGS

            AND SEVERAL HUNDRED VIGNETTES IN THE TEXT;
      THE "WHOLE PEOM; DESIGNS BT GEBMAN AETISTS.



                         BERLIN
  UNDER THE NEW EMPIRE,
ITS INSTITUTIONS, INHABITANTS, INDUSTRY, MONUMENTS,
  MUSEUMS, MANNERS, AMUSEMENTS, MISERY, AND GRIME.

                   Bt heney vizbtelly,
    Author of"The Story of the Dia/mond Necklace, Told in Detanl
                            for the Nirst Time,"

             "Why are they proud ? Because five milliard francs
               The richer tbau from wars of former years.
               "Why are they proud ? Again ask we aloud,
               "Why in the name of patience are they proud ?"
                                                 Keats'8"Isabella" paraphrased.




                              CONTENTS,

En route—First Impressions of               Unter den Linden.
  Berlin.                                   The Thiergarten.
Ancient Berlin—Natui'al Selection           Berlin en fete—The Meeting of
  and Name.                                   the Emperors.
Development of Berlin.                      The Autumn Military Manoeuvres—
Modern Berlin—Its Conformation                Flight of tho Eagles.
  and Character.                            "Wilhelm I., Khnig and Kaiser.
The Berlinese—In Society.                   Scions of the House of Hohen-
The Berlinese—At Home.                        zoUern.
"Berlin Wird Weltstadt."                    Eeichs-Kanzler von Bismarck.
Prussian Generals.                   Satire at Berlin.
The Prussian Army.                   Droschken and other Vehicles.
Berlin War Schools.                  Summer in and around Berlin.
The Reichstag and the Landtag.       The Spree and the Spreewald.
Berlin University.                   Potsdam and Sans Souci.           ^
Higher       and   Lower   Berlin    Charlottenhurg.
  Schools.                           Sport in the Neighbourhood of
Religion and Unbelief at Berlin.        Berlin.

The Schloss and the Museums.         Berlin in Winter.

The Rathhaus and the Borse.          Philanthropy and      Self-help   at
Company Creators and the Great          Berlin.
  Financial Crash.                   The Arheitshaus and the Night
Commerce and Industry-Capital          Refuges.
  and Labour.                        Berlin Hospitals and Madhouses.
Socialism at Berlin.                 Reformatories and Orphanages.
House     Accommodation — Collars     The Polizei-Prilaidium.
  and Hovels.                         The Dangerous Classes.
Berlin Theatres.                      Some Berlin Night Haunts. *
Cafe Concerts and Tanz-Sille.         At a Night Razzia by the-Berlin
Restaurants and Bier-Giirten.           Police.
Wein-stuben, Bier-loeale, Condito-    Law and Criminal Courts.
  reien, and Delicatessen-Keller.     The City Prisons.
The Markets and the Fire Brigade.     The Zellingefiingniss and Model
Berlin Newspapers.                      Prison at I'lotzensee.




         TINSLRY brothers, CATHERINE STREET, STRAND.



 J. E.OXTSSILLON AND CO.,

     Travellers from Paris to Strasbourg should not fail to break
 the long journey by a visit to Messrs. J. Roussillon and Co.'s
 cellars, mentioned in BradsTiaiv s Continental Railway Guide as
 one of the principal curiosities of the district.
     Fortunately for those who like

      PURE AND WELL-MATURED CHAMPAGNE,
 the wine of this firm is to be met with in almost every first-class
 Hotel in this country and on the Continent.
                 JAMES L. DENMAN,
       SO, PICCADILLY, LONDOIV, W.,
   Solicits a Triol of his full-bodiea GEEEK WINES, whlcE ham -nau-u • vi™
   Plastsred nor Fortified, and are guaranteed to be Pure iiv_ ■
   Grape Juice only.                                                                ermented
   St. ELIE white (Isle or Santoeik)
       The "Wine of Night/* reBombling Amontillado with a dash of B^nV                     a'^ fi
   exhilarating dry wine. SxaENGXH ik PnooF Spirit, 26®.                             most

   its power of producing exhilaration without disagreeable after-conseque-nrn ^ «fl S
       " There isno wine with which wenreacquointed that atallrivals theold sj-is t?   *
   refreshing and sustaining those who work with their brains while tho ^                a
   world is sleeping."—Prom the Times,"Wine and its Uses," January, 1873^ ^
  SANTORm, red (Saktoels)                                      28b in. ab.
      A stimulating dry red wine, very clean on the palate. Stre^cpi^ ops., tto».
  Spirit, 25-90®                                            "''^eagth m Proof
     "Santorin has high alcoholic strength, and fairly represents our         A i v a
  Port "Wine would be if we were allowed to taste it before the first brandviiJ^i? 4. i ^
  Portugal made a condition of its export.*'—Examineri                            ^ ® that ifl m


    'PURE BORDEAUX VINTAGE CLARETS.
      Mons. le BAEON DU PEEIEE DE LAESAN, Ancten Afembre du ConnHi rj j
  du Departemsnt «t President du ComiiS Vinicole de la Qironde, and Mons. le
  LAMBEET DES GEANGES, being desirous of introducing direct to Eno-NovT^iir
  sumers their                                                                               con-
                 CHATEAB LIVEAN and BEICAIBLOUX CLARETS,
  produced on their own Estates and under their own supervision, have coinmisrioned
 me to offer their reserved Vintage Wines at the following prices in London
      CHATEAU BRICAILLOUX.                     [            CHATEAU LIVRAN.
                            Per Hogshead
                            X                                       _     ^      Per Hogshead
                             AJi rioii/aT^c.
                  Perdoz. of 46  Gallons.                           Per
 If09 Vintage ... 20s. ... file OS.                1869 Vintage!!'24s.
           §°-    -   22b. ... file 12s.
 i870      do.    ... 24s. ... filS  2s.           iilS do;
          Sottled at thd Chdteau,                           Bottled at the Chdteau.
IQfln-rr- x  .        Per doz. csso.                                          . ^*er doz, CIBJ&.
ff xg Vintage.m
1868     do.
                original
                     do.
                         oases,258.
                               30s.
                                                          Vintage,m origmalcases,388.
                                                   1864     do.               do.           48s.


             LEMOINE'S real cognac,
                           (granub champagne.)
                      WlTHOOt SUGAR OB COLOURING.
         3iiported In dasee of one dozen edcli, pHced acoording to &ge,-:.L:
      Ve^Old'.;;
      Oldest  ...
                                "■ ;;;
                                   ■" ;;;
                                       "• ;;;
                                          •" ••• ygs.'
                                                 04s. per dozen caao;
                      "^alitioal Eeooeds," Angust, 1876: "This is a genuine
flaTou/'is eAMuLr'thBT'''            Possessing only 8 faint tiace of fiee acid. The
recon4end ifformldi':^V^ose!.^
            SAMPLES WILL BE FOBWABDED ON APPLICATION.
Cau, andBottln to 6e relumed or paid far. Tcrine, Net Cash. Cross Chsquss NatiohaiSiUA.
      JAMES L. DENMAlT, iMtORTEB OF PURE "WINES
                         20, PICCADILLY, LONDON. W.                                    '
                I ■:

                                           !r      ..*
                                         M      ■ '. ■■ ■   ■ ^




                           . a




          i''- . -r' f .
                                 ft •>'».■''I#*' ' ■/ •.<• ? ■•
                                             ,;•         ■ V" '



           -1st:

     I . ..\
V- . |.
          ■*>
s




THR SIIEHUV VINTACIE   riiEHSIXG THE GnAPE3 IN THE LAGAHES.
FACTS ABOUT SHERRY,
    GLEAJvEB IN THE TINEYAEDS AND BODEGAS


JEREZ, SEVILLE, MOGLTER, & MONTILLA DISTRICTS

                 DURING THE AUTUMN OP 1873.




                   HENRY VIZETELLY,
     IViite Jiit'O)'J'oi' G-yedt Jivitdhi at the J^iemia JBxJtihitioii}
  Author of"The Wines of the World Characterized and Classed."




             "WITH NUMEROUS ILLUSTRATIONS                                        1
      EEOM OBIGIUAl PHOTOGEAEHS AND SKETCHES.                                    1




               "And all drinks stand with cap in hand.
                   In presence of old Sherry;
                 Then let us drinke old Sacke, old Sacke, hoyes,
                   Which mokes us blithe and merry."
                                                    Pasquil's Palinodia, 1619.




                             LONDON:
"WARD, LOCK, AND TYLER,- WARWICK HOUSE,
                      PATERNOSTER RO"VV.
                                187G.
                             LONDON:
                    PKINTEU BV JAS. WADE,

lA-            TAVlSTOCIi tsTltEEX, COVENV OAnOKN.




                          ...Jr? .'■• ■•f'i' '^. '       •■■" . .


                                  \M'f'-*- ■>(•»>:;.. ■
                                                 . M*a' a*''


n   ••
         -II
 mHE controversy that had arisen with reference to Sherry
      induced me in the autumn of last year to spend several
months in those districts of the South of Spain whence our
supply of this popular wine is derived, in order to ascertain the
truth on the spot. During my sojourn I not only witnessed the
vintaging of Sheriy in many Jerez and San Lucar vineyards,
hut visited both vineyards and bodegas in the remainder of
the extensive Sherry region; and while I profited by the
facilities freely afforded to me wherever I went,I was especially
careful not to limit my investigations merely to such matters
as the growers and shippers of Sherry sought to commend to
my attention. The result of what I saw and learned was
pubhshed at the time in the columns of a weU-hnown evening
newspaper, and is now offered to the pubhc in a revised and
extended form.



   Paris, October, 1876.
    . V \

I   ■   ^
                         CONTENTS.


                                                                   ?AG&.
              I. The Vintagincj op Manzanilla.
To Jerez by Way of Gibraltar-Shakspeare's Panegyric of Sheriy-On
   Board the P. and O. Steamer "Australia"—The Sherry Capital and its
   Surrounding ^ Vineyards—Excursion to San Lucar do Barrameda—
       E. Davies's Vineyard of Torre Breva—The Vintage there—
   TreacUug and Pressing the Grapes by Night—Vintagers at Supper . 11
                  Bodegas op San Lhoae de Baeeameda.
Wine-making at San Luear-Tlie Wine Bodega of the'south of Spain—
   Seuor Hidalgo's Wines and Vineyards—Mauzanilla Soleras—Mode of
   Eearing the Wine—The ManzanUla Grape—Gipsy Concert at San Lucar 21
        in.—Jeeez Vineyaeds Noeth op the Town.
The Amoroso, Romano, la Paz, and Ducha Vineyards of Seuor Gonzalez—
   The Abandoned Oratory—Potluck with the Vintagers—The Vineyard
   of Seuor Jose Pemartin in the Cerro de Santiago—Proceedings of a
   Jerez Mob in 1871—Seuor Domeeq's Majuelo at High Macharuudo—
   The "Alumbra"—Seuor Domeeq's System of Vinifieation—View from
   the Tower at High Macharuudo—The Press-house, Bodega, and Casa
   de la Gente—The Almocadeu and A. B. Vineyards
                                                                        27
                 IV.—Othee Jeeez Vineyaeds.
The Cerro de Obregon Vineyard of Messrs. Cosens and Co.—Treatment of
  the Grapes for Vino Dulee—The Arrangement of the Casa de la Viua-
  Wasted Raisins-Breakfast at the Vineyard-Sequestrations by
  Brigan^ in the Neighbourhood of Jerez-Tlie Successful Resistance
  of Aunt Matiass Nephew-Short Slu-ifl to Captured Brigands-The
  San Julian, Leon, and Las Cauas Vineyards—Robbery of the Guard at
  the atter-The Tula Vineyard, with its mock Moorish Castle and
  Battlemented Almijar-Viueyards of the Plaiu-The Vineyard facin-
  the Spoon Wmeshop-Seuor Campo's Vineyard-Waste of Labour in

                                                                        31,
                               Contents.
                                                                     PAGE.

     V.—The Wines of Jeeez—Blending Sheeet foe
                              Shipment.
System of Tiniftcation at Jerez—Vinos Finos and their Development into
   Palmas—Cause of Amontillado—Genuine Brown Sherries—Palos
   Cortados and Olorosos—^Varieties of Eayas; Enti-e-finos, Bastos,
   Bedondos, and Ahocados—Maladies of the Jerez Wines—The Bearing
   of them by Seasons and hy Soleras—^Vinos Dnlces; Pedro Jimenez—
   Vino de Color—Classes of Jerez Wines Shipped to England—namely,
   Natural Wines, Vintage Wines, Solera Wines, and Blended Wines—
   Blending of Sherry in the Cosens Bodegas—The Process in all its
   Details—The Grand Finos, Amontillados, Olorosos, and Pasados of
   Cosens and Co.—Establishments of the Firm at Jerez and Puerto de
   Santa Maria                                                            44 ,

      Vi.—The Assumed TJnwholesomenbss of Sheeet.
The Careful Bearing which the finer Jerez Wines Undergo—The Great Age
  they Attain—The Blending of Sherry an Artistic Operation—The Late
  Outcry Against the Wine—Highly-coloured Statements put forward
   and the motives which prompted them—Befutation of the Attaeks—
   Gypsum in Burton Beer—Scientific Investigation of the Plastering
   of Wine in France—It is declared to heInnocuous—Fresh Investigations
   on the part of the French Government with a like result The
   Sulphuring of Wines—Opinion of the Vienna Jury upon the point . 56
    YII.—The Bodegas in the old Mooeish Quaetee of
                                 Jeeez.
A Great Jerez Shipping Establishment—The Offices, Press-house, and
  Cooperage—The Stables, the Shipping Bodega, and the Sample-rooms
  —Maturing of the Commoner Wines—The Bodega de la Union and its
  Annexes—Huge Tuns known as Los Apostoles—The Parte Arroyo and
  Senor Gonzalez' Blind Bargain—The Constancia Bodegii and the
  Bomano Wine—The Bodega de los Ciegos and the A. B. Wine The
   Bodega Vieja and Senor Gonzalez'"Piano" Tk® Bodega de la Bosa
   and the Methusalem, Noah, and La Beyna Wines The Bodega Be-
  servada, with its Napoleon III., Muscatel, and Fragrant Tie Pepe
   Wines—The Blending CeUar, Cask-steaming Apparatus, and Distillery
  .—Bailway Incline—Other Bodegas of the Firm at Puerto de Santa
   Maria, San Lucar, SeviUe, and MontiUa—Senor Domecq's Bodegas-
   Steaming and Gauging the Casks—The Cooperage—Fine Amontillado
   and Oloroso—The Famous Napoleon Wine, and its Christening by
   Marshal Soult—Other Bemarkahle Wines—Seiior Domecq's Criaderas
   —The Bodegas of Vergara, Bohertson, and Co.—Visit paid to them by
   Ferdinand VII.—Superior AViucs of the old Jerezano Type . . 63
                                 Contents.
                                                                       PiOE.

               VIII.—Some Othee Jeeez Bodegas.
Tlie Establisliment of Seuor Jlisa, Conde do Bayona, its Array of Bodegas
    and jMonumental Tower—Its more remarkable Soleras—Garvey and
    Co.'s Monster Bodegja—Their Soleras bf Choice Amontillados—The Old
    Brown SheiTy of the Prinee of Wales—Youtliful and Matured Montilla
    AVines The Ancient Jerez House of Haurie—Its Blended Wines,
    Amontillados, and Olorosos—Don Diego de Agreda's Choice Soleras—
    His Mam-esque House and Handsome Garden—Seuor Julian Peniartiu's
    Amontillados, Vinos de Paste, and Jerezano Wines—^The A'encrable
   Soleras of Seuor Jose Pemartin—Mr. R. Davies's Bodega—His San
   Ducar and Madeira Vineyards—His Delicate Amontillados and Fragrant
   Finos and Manzanillas—Mr. J. C. Gordon's Olorosos, Potent Brown
   Shen'y, and High-class Finos— Seiior J. J. Vegas's Choice and Robust
   Rayas Wisdom and Warter's Montilla Finos—Their Einperador
   and Sweet Pedi-o Jimenez—Mr. R. Ivison's AVines of the old Jerezano
   Tpe—His Mode of Developing the Seville Wines—Webber and Co.'s
   Finos    Mackenzie and Co.'s ManzanUlas,.Amontillados, and Cente
   narian Olorosos Heyward and AVilson's Finos and Alanzauillas,
   their Montilla and old Jerezano AVines—Matthiesen and Furlong's
   Bodegas in the Jesuit Church and Convent—Their Vineyard in the
   Cnartillos and its Fino AA'ine—Seuor A'sasi's Finos and Amontillados—
   Cramp .and Sutor's Fino Soleras and Rare Old AA'ines—The Jerez
   Almacenistas and the Establishment of Seuor Sanchez Roinate . . 75

                  Wines of the Bay op Cadiz, Chiclana,
                            and Tebbujena.
The Vineyards of Puerto Peal and Puerto de Santa Maria—A Rival to the
   Great Sherry Metropolis—Evidences of Decadence—Duff Gordon and
   Co. s Establishment, Garden Court, and Rare Soleras—The Bodegas
   of Seuor M. de Mora, Superior Finos, Moscatel, Pedro Jimenez, and
   Jerezano Wine—Cosens and Co.'s Bodegas and High-class Soleras of
   Manzanillas, Finos, and Amontillados—The Gonzalez Bodegas in au
   Abandoned Convent—The Admirable Wines of Seuor Gastelu—The
   Choice Finos and Amontillados of Mr. J. W. Burdon—Rota,its Vine
   yards, Market-gardens,and Moorish Remains—Interior of a Rota AVine-
   producing Establishment—^Mode of Making the Sacramental Tent—
   Chipiona and its Vineyards—The Road to Chiclana—Chiclana famous
   alike for its BuU-fighters and its AVines—Trebujena .    .     .    . 87
    X. Wines of the Seville and Moguee Disteicts.
Seville and the Gipsy Suburb of Triana—Vineyards on the High Lands
  near the Gualdalquivir-The House where CortAs died—The Wine-
                               Contents. •
                                                                      PAOE..
  producing Districts of Gines, Villanueva, Espartina, and Salteras
  System of Vinificatioa—Price of Grapes and Mosto—The Vineyards of
  San Lucar la Mayor and Manzanilla—The Fresh-tasting Ambrosial
  Wine of the latter—The Condado de Niehla and its Low-Glass Wines
  —The Vintage in the Moguer District—The Wines shipped as Sherry
   —Mogucr the Port Columbus sailed from                                   95-

          The Montilla Wines.—Concluding Eemabks.
The Town of Montilla encircled by Sierras—The Bii'thplace of el Grand
   Capitan Gonzalo of Cordova—The Castillo and Palacio of the Dukes
   of Medina-Celi—The ancient Ducal Bodega of La Tercia—Its Cen
   tenarian Casks and Grand Solera—The Teatro and Tres Naves Bodegas
    The Press-house, its antiquated Press and huge Tinajas—^Vineyards
  of the Sierra de Montilla and the Moril^s District—System of Vinifica-
  tion Fermentation of the Mosto in the Tinajas—Removal of the Wine
  in Goatskins ^Vineyard Value and Price of Grapes—The Wine-grow
   ing Districts of Aguilar, Monturque, Cabra, and Lucena—Concluding
   Remarks upon Sherry in general       . . . . . . .100'
              LIST OF ILLUSTEATIONS.



"The Sheekt Viktagb—Peessiug of Geapes in the Lagaees
                                                    Frontispiece.
 The Vintaging of Manzaniela at Toeee Beeva ,       .      . jg
 Look-out Hut in the Toeee Beeva Vinetaed     .     .     '20
Aeeival of Mules with Geapes at the Lagar .  .    . 26
■Gatheeing Geapes in the Ducha Vineyaed . .  .      30
 The Majuelo Vinetaed, with House and Towee at High
    Machaenudo .
 Vintagers Aeeiting with* Geapes
                              *     •
                                 at the   •
                                        Almijae •
                                                of the Ceeeo 33
     DE Obeegon Vinetaed      .     .                        g-
 VINTAGEES AT DiNNEE IN THE CaSA DE LA GeNTA OF THE CeeEO DE
    Obeegon
Gateway of the Ancient Bodega at the Caetuja .      .      . 43
Garden Court of Cosens and Co.'s Bodegas .    .     .      . 51
Blending Sherry foe Shipment in Cosens's Bodega     .      . 52
The Cooperage at Cosens and Co.'s Bodega .    .      .   . 55
A Jerez Arumbadoe Handling the Venencia       .      .   . 63
The Union Bodega of Messes. Gonzalez; Byass, and Co. .   . 67
Eailway Incline at the Establishment of Gonzalez and Co. . 70
The Entrance to the Bodegas of Senoe Domecq .        .   , -jx
Senor Domecq's Nafoleon" Wine      ,    ,
Jerez Coopers at Work at Gonzalez and Co.'s Cooperage      . 74
Tower and Eailway at Senor Misa's Bodegas .         .      . ^5
Drawing Wine with a Syphon from the Upper Casks in Senor
    Misa's Bodega de Bxteaccion   .     .     .            ' 76
Senor Misa's Bodega Nueva .       .     .     ' ■ "        'n
Old Moorish Towees and Battlements at Jerez—Butts of
   Sherry on their Way to the Teocadeeo       .     .      . 86
Emptying the Grapes into the Lagar      .     .     .      " gg
Ancient Bodega of La Teecia at Montilla .     .            10]^
■Conveying Wine in Goatskins feom the Montilla Vineyards . 108
f • I




        a* '**■ ' '
       FACTS ABOUT SHERKY.


              I.—The Vintaging of Manzanilla.

To Jerez by Way of Gibraltar—Shakspeare's Panegyric of Sherry—On Board'
    the P. and 0. Steamer "Australia"—The Sherry Capital and its Sur
    rounding Vineyards—Excursion to San Lucar de Bairameda—Air. E.
    Davies's Vineyard of Torre Breva—The Vintage there—Treading and
    Pressing the Grapes by Night—Vintagers at Supper.

   In visiting the soutli of Sixain in the early autumn no route is
comparable to the G-ibraltar one, which enables the tourist to
avail himself of the admirable accommodation provided by the
Peninsular and Oriental line of steamers. Less than five days
on the open sea on board a floating hotel is immeasurably pre
ferable to three or four days and nights in a stfiffy railway
carriage. In the former we find most of the comforts we have
been habituated to on shore, and, what is of equal if not greater
importance, one has not only complete confidence in the qualities
of the ship, but in the nautical skill of its ofiScers, all of whom pass
a strict examination. The high pay, moreover, tempts into the
service individuals of good social standing, so that the ofiicers of
the P. and O. have one and all the courteous manners of gentle
men. People on board get rapidly acquainted, which adds
materially to the pleasure of the passage. The ice is broken the
first afternoon, and before the second sunset flirtations are
already in full swing, so that mammas, on the whole, have
rather an anxious time of it guarding their daughters from the
attacks of"detrimentals"—subalterns about joining their regi
ments in India, or young fellows seeking their fortunes in
Australia,to say nothing of trim-whiskered curates who,foregoing
12                   Facts ahout Sherry.

such i5omps and Tanities as rinking, croquet, and kettledrums,
are bent on converting the aboriginal beatben. Tbe Cassandra
like warnings anent "Biscay's troubled waters" are likely to
 prove so many cbimeras at tbis season of tbe year, and if only
tbe same delightful weather is encountered as we luckily met
 with during tbe latter half of our passage,"so dulcet, delicious,
.and dreamy" wiU existence seem to tbe tourist, that be will quit
 the ship, as we left tbe "Austraba" and her courteous com
 mander, Captain Murray,with real regret. From Gibraltar it is
■only a few hours' sail to Cadiz, which rises in white-robed beauty
out of tbe tm-quoise sea, while from Cadiz it is scarcely a few
hours' rail to Jerez, tbe very heart of tbe sberi-y district, where
from one year's end to another it is tbe habit to talk, think,
and dream of little else besides wine, known in the mystical
q)hraseology of the bodega as fino, palma, palo, cortado, raya,
redondo, abocado, or basto.
   Jerez enjoys the renown of having given its name to a wine
which for upwards of three centuries has been famous with
Englishmen, and is more or less celebrated all over the world.
From Jerez (pronounced Herez) the transition to the shenis of
the old English dramatists is obvious enough, and notably to the
" excellent sherris " of Shakspeare, whose panegyric of a potation
which, as he puts it, diies up all the foolish, dull, and cruddy
vapours environing the brain, illumineth the face, and impels the
heart to deeds of courage, will live as long as there are vineyards
on the earth. The most remarkable features of the Andalusian
frontier town are its vast bodegas, or wine-stoies, gilding it
round like a rampart, its curious antique churches andits Morisco
alcdzar—half .palace, half fortress—the residence of its former
Moorish rulers. Its peoiile are comdeous its senoritas types of
southern petite grace and beauty. The town, too, has about it
an unmistakable air of prosperous gentility; it is a model of
cleanliness; and the dazzling whiteness of the houses, and the
emerald brightness of their mouldings, rejas, and balconies, with
the cool inner courts of the handsomer dwellinp, set off with
tropical plants and plashing fountains, combine, with the more or
                   The Vintaging of Manzanilla,                  13

 less gay and picturesque costumes of the common people,to give
 to the great sheny metropoHs a cheerful and pleasing aspect.
 Its broader streets are planted with acacias or orange-trees,
 while its many little plazas, rendered gay with floral parterres,
 ornamented by stately palms,or bordered by umbrageous fohage,
 invite to the afternoon lounge or evening promenade.
     The market-places of Jerez offer a series of bright pictures,
 which any artist with an eye for grouping and for brilliant
 contrasts of colour would delight in transferring to his sketch
 book ; while in the narrow winding thoroughfares of the more
 retired quarters of the town we constantly come upon little
 scenes of manners, in which portly shovel-hatted curas, stately
 senoras, and bright-eyed senoritas play a prominent part, and
 which seem to relegate one for the time being to the region of
 comedy and opera. For distraction the Jerezanos have,besides the
 customary carnival and spring and autumn fairs,their horse-races
 and bull-fights,their teatro,circo, and a couple of casinos,together
 with a roulette-table, at which a couj)le of grandees of this poor
degenerate Spain act nightly as croupiers, handliug the rake
with the same seeming pride as their ancestors of old wielded
lance and sword.
    Vineyards encompass Jerez on all sides. Those scattered
over the plain in the immediate vicinity of the town, more par
ticularly on the north and north-east (the soil of which is either
sand or sand and clay impregnated with oxide of iron combined,
and known as barro-arenoso), yield wine ordinarily of little
repute; whereas the "more distant plantations, covering the
chalky slopes and ridges of the outlying amphitheatre of hills,
the compact white soil of which is termed albariza, produce Avines
of the veiy highest character, and developing remarkable variety
of flavour. Wine of an intermediate yet coarse quahty comes
from the vineyards of the lower slopes and valleys, the soil of
which is dark earth, and goes under the name of bugeo.
   In one comer of the sherry district proper is the little town
of San Lucar de Barrameda, dating back to the dim> traditional
ages, and commanding the mouth of the G-uadalquivi'r, which,
                                                           B
14                    Facts ahoitt Sherry.

judging by its flat monotonous banks hereabouts,scarcely merits
the flowery praise bestowed upon it by the poets of all ages and
nations. All the flner qualities of the pale, delicate, dry,tonical-
tasting wine known as manzanilla, which we first came to hear
of in England through Dr. Gorman's evidence before the Wine
Duties Committee, and Mr.Richard Ford's Handbook for Spain,
come from the neighbourhood of San Lucar, where the vintage
commences a fortnight earlier than at Jerez. Hither, therefore,
I hied the day following my arrival, after fii-st retracing my steps
to Puerto de Santa Maria(Port St. Mary),which has its own vine
yards and vast bodegas,and whence about a quarter of the sherry
annually sent to England is shipped.
     From Porto de Santa Maria one drove over to San Lucar
in the conventional carretela, an antique style of vehicle, hung
well upon its springs, but requiring foui* horses, with their
customary ragged trappings and jingling bells, to drag it over the
villainous pavements of the steep streets,and along the furrowed,
sandy country roads. After passing some pleasant suburban
gardens, with their tall flowering aloes and large-leaved tropical
plants,we were soon among the few vineyards skirting the town,
and,crossing a sandy heath studded with pines,emerged into the
open country. A faint, ruddy-streaked purply haze of hills,
indicating the flner Jerez vineyards, rose up on our right hand,
while our road lay through fields of stubble eaten close down to
the roots by browsing herds, or by brood mares turned out to
feed after their task of threshing the lately-garnered corn had
ended. We passed occasional huge-wheeled buUock-carts
carrying empty wine-butts to San Lucar, and solitary pannier-
laden mules and donkeys; sighted ragged peasants tending
thickly-fleeced sheep, or lazily watching herds of swine battening
upon the skins of newly-trodden grapes, or drawing water from
ancient wayside wells; occasionally startled an errant partridge
or scattered a flock of staid-looking turkeys. The broad tracts
of arable land, bounded by low hiUs, with some white farmhouse
commonly crowmng their summits, soon began to be intersected
by patches of vineyards which, shut off by dusty hedges of
                  The Vintaging of Manzanilla.                 15

  pricHy pear, broken bere and tbere by a dilapidated gateway,
  eventually lined both sides of the road. A dark pine-gi'ove rose
  on our left hand, and before us the white houses and bodegas of
  San Lucar,with their low-pitched roofs dominated by half-a-dozen
  chui-ch towers, spread themselves out in the midst of orange-
  trees, while the solid square keep of the Moorish castle frowned
  down disdainfully upon aU. Beyond, the turquoise-tinted Grua-
  dalquivir flowed placidly on to the sea.
     Troops of mules laden with panniers of dust-covered grapes,
 and occasionally carrying a couple of blue-shirted, crimson-
 sashed, hulking mulateros as well—^for in this oppressive heat
 every beggar who gets the chance rides on horseback—are pro
 ceeding, enveloped in clouds of sand, to the different press-
 houses in the town; and as our vehicle rumbles along the
 irregularly-paved streets, bordered by the whitest of houses with
 the brightest of green shutters and balconies, we encounter flies
 of donkeys can-ying kegs and jars of water to thirsty souls swel
 tering in the suiTOunding vineyards. Heaps of grape-stalks, on
 which tawny-tinted, scantily-draped young ui'chins are sprawhng,
 lie piled up in front of many an open gateway, through which
 glimpses are caught of casks and screw-presses, wooden shovels
 and pitchers, and capacious ^troughs in which the grapes are
 trodden to a steady clockwork movement that would delight,if it
did not absolutely frenzy, a Prussian drill-sergeant.
    The most extensive vineyards at St. Lucar are those of Torre
Breva, the property of the Due de Montpensier, but now rented'
by an Englishman, Mr. E. Davies, one of the large Jerez wine-
shippers. They are distant a long league fi'om the town, and a
drive bordered by flr-trees conducts through the plantations of
vines to the house, distinguished by a tall squaa-e tower at one
end. Here are no less than 320 acres of vines, not more than
200 of which, however, are bearing at present. Dotting the
vineyards are groups of white outbuildings, and starting up in
various directions are little huts of esj)arto, perched upon
four poles, and to which access is obtained bv aid of a short
ladder. These are so many look-out places for the half-dozen
16                   Facts about Sherry.

guards, wlioj armed -witli old-fashioned Moorish firelocks, are
employed to ■watch the ■vineyards from the commencement of
July until the ■vintage is over, and are after the same fashion as
corresponding structures encountered throughout.the Medoc.
    Upwards of 200 men were occupied ■with the ■vintage at Torre
Bre-va. Adwocates of women's rights wUl regret to hear that the
labours of the softer sex are altogether dispensed ■with in the
■vineyards of the South of Spain. The men are broken up into
 gangs of ten, each ■with its separate capataz, and they certainly
seemed to work ■with a ■will in a heat that rendered movement of
any kind httle short of heroic. They were a sturdy-looking,
picturesque, raggedy lot, in broad sombreros, shirt-sleeves or
linen jackets, and the inevitable scarlet or crimson sash wound
tightly round their waists. Numbers of them came as far as
sixty miles for a sixteen or seventeen days' hire, at 8 reals,
or 20d., a day, ■with onions for their soup, and a nightly shake
down on an estera in the casa de la gente of the vineyard. Some
few dexterously plucked the bunches (the size and weight of
many of which need to be seen to be credited) with their fingers,
but the majority used a small bo^wie-knife—the lower class
Spaniard's habitual' companion and weapon of offence and
defence—to detach the grapes.     When the baskets, or the square
wooden boxes kno^wn as tinetas, each holding about an arroba
 of grapes, weighing 251b., were filled, the pickers hoisted
 them on their heads or sho^ulders, on which a small round
 straw knot was fixed for the purpose, and marched off in
 Indian file to the nearest almijar. Here the bunches were
  spread out in the sun to dry on circular mats of esparto, thus to
 remain for from one to three days, while all blighted fruit was
 thro^wn aside for conversion into either spirit or ■vinegar.
     The sun by this time had well-nigh set, and preparations
 were made for pressing the grapes throughout the night, when,
 with a cooler temperature prevailing, there would be much
 less chance of precipitating the fermentation of the must.
 This pressing commenced between seven and eight o'clock, and
  was accomplished in a detached building under a low tiled roof.
           mmt
lThe Vintaoing op Manzanilla at Touhe Bheva.
                 The Vintaging of Manzanilla.                 17

but entirely open in front. Passing through the gateway, and
stumbling in the dim light afforded by an occasional lamp fixed
against the wall, over a nidely-paved courtyard, we found our
selves beside a row of large, stout wooden troughs, some 10 feet
square and a couple of feet deep, raised about 3 feet from the
ground, and known in the vernacular of the vineyards as lagares.
The bottoms of these receptacles were already strewn with
grapes lightly sprinkled over with yeso (gypsum), which, if
spread over the whole of the bunches, would not have been
greatly in excess of the amount of dust ordinarily gathered by a
similar quantity of grapes conveyed in open baskets on the backs
of mules from the vineyards to the pressing-places in the towns-
At Torre Breva the sixty or more arrobas of grapes (l,5001bs.)
required to make each butt of wine were having from 21bs.to 41bs.of
yeso sprinkled over them,or about halfthe quantity which would be
used in a moist season. I was assured that at last year's vintage
here not a single ounce of yeso was employed in the manufacture
of upwards of 700 butts of wine. Of the supposed virtues and
drawbacks ofthis employment of gypsum I shall speak by-and-by.
   Eising perpendicularly in the centre of each of the four
lagares to a height of about seven feet is a tolerably powerful
screw, which is only brought into requisition after the grapes
have been thoroughly trodden. A couple of swarthy bare-legged
pisadores leap into each lagar and commence spreading out the
bunches with wooden shovels; and soon the whole eight of them,
in their short drawers, blue-striped shirts,little caps, red sashes,
and hob-nailed shoes, are dancing a more or less lively measure,
ankle-deep in newly-crushed grapes. They dance in couples,one
on each side of the screw,performing certain rapid pendulum-like
movements which are supposed to have the virtue of expressing
the juice more satisfactorily fr-om the fruit than can be accom
plished by mere mechanical means. Their saltatory evolutions
ended, the trodden grapes are heaped up on one side and well
patted about with the shovel, like so much newly-mixed mortar.
Ihis causes the expressed juice to flow out in a dingy brown
  rgid stream through the spout fixed in front of the lagar into
  18                    Facts about Sherry.

  a metal strainer, and tlience into tlie vat placed beneath to
  receive it. Presb grapes are now spread over the bottom of the
  lagar, and, after being duly danced upon, are shovelled on one
  side ; and this kind of thing goes on until sufficient trodden
  murk has been accumulated to make what is called the pile.
     The pisadores now retire in favour of the tiradores, or
  pressers, who, springing into the lagares, collect all the trodden
  grapes together and skilfully budd them, by the aid of wooden
  shovels and that readier implement the hand, ia a compact mass
  around the screw, just as an expert plasterer would build up a
  circular column of compo. The form taken by this in the first
  instance, owing to the weight of the murk, is necessarily conical,
 consequently the base has to be neatly trimmed and the
 detached fragments budt round the upper part of the column
 until this attains a height of some 5 ft. When perfected it is
 bound round with a long band of esparto, about 4 in. wide, from
 base to summit, and a flat wooden slab being placed on the top,
 with the nut of the screw immediately above it, the handles of
the screw are rapidly turned, causing the juice to exude between
the interstices of the esparto. For the first few minutes the
labom- is light enough. Presently, however, it becomes severe,
and, although the pressers strain with all their might, they can
only succeed in turning the nut by a series of successive jerks
which necessitate the binding of their hands to the handle, for
fear, when exerting their utmost strength, they should lose their
hold of it, together with their footing on the slippery floor of the
lagar, and so come to serious grief.
   This treading [and pressing of grapes goes on nightly for
fourteen hours, with occasional intervals for refreshment, until
the end of the vintage, lasting altogether for sixteen days. The
pisadores are paid at the rate of 5 reals, about Is,, the flfty
baskets, or arrobas, of grapes, enabling them to earn about
30 reals, or upwards of 6s., each per night. The tiradores receive
27 reals, or 5s. 6d., each for their night's work. Wine is freely
given to them to encourage them to put forth aU their strength,
so as to get through the pressing of the grapes as speedily as-
                   Tlie Vintaging of Manzanilla,                19

  possible.' During a long night they commonly press at Torre
  Breva as many as sixty canretadas or cart-loads of grapes, which
  would ordinarily yield sixty butts of mosto, but on the occasion
  of our visit, thi'ough the excessive dryness of the season, gave
  much less than fifty.
     After the stalks have been roughly stripped from the pressed
  grapes the skins are subjected to hydraulic pressure, but the
  must yielded by this means is invariably fermented by itself, and
  then commonly distilled into spirit, so great is the dread which
  the cosechero of sherry has of tannin in his wine, although he
  knows it will impai-t keeping power, and that its harsh flavour-
  passes off with time. Spirit is also distilled direct from the
  refuse grape-skins, which finally serve for manure. The must
  yielded by the first pressure of the grapes is poured, through
  metal strainers into ordinary butts, and at Torre Breva these
  are forwarded by bullock-carts to San Lucar, where a municipal
  tax of a dollar and a half is levied on each.. On their arrival at
  the bodega the contents, although fermentation may by this time
  have set in, are, in accordance with the prevailing San Lucar
  practice, at once transferred to other receptacles, the must of
  perhaps a dozen butts being divided equally among the same
  number of fresh casks.
     Before returning to San Lucar we took a peep at the vintagers
 supping in the casa de la gente, a long, low, narrow, dimly-
 lighted apartment, with a tiled floor, and a couple of huge bell-
 shaped depending chimneys, dividing it as it were into three.
 This is at once the refectory and dormitory for some 120 out of
 the 214 hands engaged in the vintage. Banged at equal dis
 tances down the centre of the apartment were a number of low
 tables, just sufficiently large to support a huge smoking bowl of
 bread and onion porridge of the circumference of a small sponging-
 bath. Seated around each of these tables, -with their eyes
 intently fixed on the steaming bowl, were seven ravenous meny
 who, quick as thought, plunged the wooden spoons -with which
 they were armed first into the smoking porridge and next into
h3 ir distended jaws, taking special care never to make a
20                   Facts about Sherry.

false movement, and always to pile up their spoons as full as
possible, until the once overflowing howl was utterly void. The
vintagers at Torre Breva managed to get through 3601hs. of
bread daily, which had to be fetched from San Lucar, besides
61bs. or 71bs. of grapes per head, equivalent in the whole to
upwards of twelve butts of mosto. As, unlike Brillat-Savarin,
they took their wine in the form of pills, none other was allowed
them, and as onion soup is not particularly provocative of
garruUty, the meal passed off in comparative silence. Appetite
appeased, the men puffed away at their cigarettes, and then
proceeded to unroll the esteras hanging on their respective pegs
and stretch themselves full length upon them, soon to be over
come by sleep, which—with the thermometer at 90°—wrapped
them round about, as their compatriot Sancho Panza has it, like
a warm cloalr.




                                                            A




           LOOK-OTJT HUT Ttf THE lOEEE BEEVA VTIfEYAED.
          The Bodegas of San Lucar de Barrameda.                 21



     II.—The Bodegas op San Lhcae de Baeeameda.

Wine-making at San Lucar—The AVine Bodega of the South of Spain—Senor
    Hidalgo's Wines and Vineyards—Manzanilla Soleras—Mode of Bearing
    the Wine—The Manzanilla Grape—Gipsy Concert at San Lucar.

   Hating seen manzanilla made in the vineyard I was anxious
to ascertain whether any different mode of viQification was
practised in the town, and, with that view, visited several of the
pressing-houses in San Lucar de Barrameda, where, judging
from the constant procession of mules with baskets of grapes
from the surroimding vineyards which day after day threaded
the narrow streets, a considerable quantity of wine was evidently
being made. These mules are generally encumbered in regular
Spanish fashion with more or less useless trappings, and if the
whole of them are not adorned with bells the leading mule of the
team will certainly be furnished with these jingling appendages.
Hot unfrequently, too, their flanks will be fantastically branded
over with rude arabesques, indicative of their past or present
gipsy ownership, and all of them will be duly muzzled with bands
of esparto to check the poor brutes' well-known propensity for
ripened grapes.
   After being kept awake all night by the mosquitoes, which,
as a rule, are prompt in acclimatising strangers, who discover to
their cost the so-called mosquito-curtains to be a delusion, a
mockery, and a snare, I started on my expedition shortly after
the sun had risen, but that irrepressible luminary was already
darting his flerce rays down the narrow side streets of San Lucar,
rendering sweltering pedestrians like myself covetous of the little
band of shadow to be found on the so-called shady side of the
way. I was glad enough to dive into the cool com'tyard indi
cated by my guide, where the pressing of grapes was going on
under a low,slanting roof, supported on open arches, judiciously
provided with large movable blinds of esparto to keep out the
sun, and faced by a couple of shady acacias, which rose up
majestically beside an old-fashioned well. As the mules ambled
22                     Facts about Sherry.

in with their panniers of grapes the latter were at once thrown
into tubs or the neighbouring lagares, and then came the dancing
upon them, followed by the building up of the pile and the
straining away at the screw, precisely as at Torre Breva, except
ing that the combined operations were performed by the same
persons instead of by two distinct sets of men. Close by the
 measuring out of the expressed juice from the grapes was being
accomplished by the aid of a metal measm-e perforated at the
upper part to allow the must flowing through when it reached
the point indicating half an arroba, with the view of ascertaining
the amount of mosto yielded by grapes purchased from different
rineyard proprietors, and who were to be paid at the rate of
30 reals, or 6s. 3d., per arroba—that is, a trifle over 3^ gallons
of must. "When the vintage is prolific the price falls to 20 reals,
just as it rises in years of scarcity hke 1853, the epoch of the
oidium, when manzanilla mosto commanded 100 reals the arroba,
or about 6s. the gallon.
    After visiting several pressing-houses we went over half a
score of the principal bodegas at San Lucar, including those of
Senores Hidalgo, Marin, Marquez, and Rodriguez, and Senoras
Mergelina, de Otajola,and Manjon. The wine bodega in the south
of Spain is not a cellar, but a lofty and capacious store, built on a
level with the ground, and entered through a preliminary court
or garden. It is commonly divided into from three to five aisles,
is well lighted and ventilated, and has about it none of that
pungent vinous odour pertaining to the close vaults in which
wine is ordinarily stored. Moreover, the rays of the sun are
carefully excluded from it by means of shutters or blinds of
esparto. Some of these bodegas are sufficiently long to admit of
one hundred butts of wine lying side by side in a single row. As
the butts are commonly ranged in three, and occasionally four
tiers, and as each aisle has casks stacked along either side of it,
some conception may be formed of the vast number of butts of
wine often housed in a single bodega. Senor Hidalgo, one of
the principal growers of San Lucar and the largest holder of
manzanillas, including the very finest qualities of this dehcate
          The Bodegas of San Lucar de Barrameda.                   23

   aromatic wine, has, in addition to 1,000 butts of vino de color,
  usually stored in his bodegas no less than 5,000 butts of manza-
  nilla divided into fifteen soleras in various stages of progressive
  development, from the pale, fresh-tasting, and remarkably
  fragrant young growths,to wines in their fifth and sixth year,and
  regarded in fine condition for drinking,including also a wine ten
  years of age, accorded a medal for progress at the Vienna Exhi
  bition, with older wines which, although manza.nillas, had
  developed much of the oloroso and amontUlado characters
  belonging to the Jerez growths. The windows of his bodegas,
  which are placed rather high up, face the sea, to admit of a full
 current of cool sea air passing through the building when the
 wind blows from that quarter. Although this conduces mate
 rially to the evaporation of the wine, which, under ordinary
 circumstances, amounts to as much as 4 or more per cent,
 annually, Senor Hidalgo considers that any extra loss in this
 respect is amply compensated for by the marked improvement
 which the wine undergoes. Senor Hidalgo's wines are all the
 produce of his own vineyards, the most important of which,
 Miraflores la Baja, occupies some slopes a few miles distant from
San Lucar,and yields 300 butts of manzanilla annually. Another
vineyard in the same direction is La Punta del Aquila, while a
third in the neighbourhood of Chipiona, a little seaside village
lying between San Lucar and Eota, goes by the name of Santo
Domingo.
    At San Lucar, as at Jerez, the system of what are technically
termed soleras—^in other words, the building up of new wines
on the foundation of older ones—prevails. As the older wines
are drawn off to supply orders the deficiency created in the butts is
made good by the addition of wine of the same character but a
year younger, the place of which is supplied in a like manner by
stiU younger wine, and this process is continued all down the
scale. Manzanilla, it should be remarked, does not develop the
endless variety of types which the finer wines of Jerez are known
to assume, and, as a general rule, the wines in the San Lucar
bodegas, although of the highest character, are not of the same
24                    Facts about Sherry.

great age as tlie riclier, rotuster,and more prized Jerez ^owths.
Witli manzanilla ten years is abont the extreme age of the bulk
of the soleras, although their bases may date back for a century.
The rearing of this ■wine appears to be as follows:—The mosto on
being conveyed from the vineyard to the bodega is transferred,
as already explained, into fresh casks, which, after being filled to
within about a tenth of their full capacity, are ranged in rows
one above the other, the lowest butts being placed on stone sup
ports to prevent them from being attacked by a destructive
insect common to these parts. In several bodegas we noticed
that the bungs in front of the casks containing sweet ■wine were
covered ■with tin as a protection against the San Lucar rats,
which exhibit a strong partiality for vino dulce, but leave
ordinary ■wine untouched. During the period the must is fer
menting—that is, until the ensuing February—the bungs are
left entirely out of the casks, or placed loosely over the apertures,
and in April the ■wine is racked from its lees, when it receives a
moderate quantity of spirit, usually, we were repeatedly assured,
no more than 1 or 2 per cent., and is then used to replenish the
lowest scale of the solera. All the San Lucar almacenistas, or
rearers of wine, of whom we made inquiries, were unanimous in
 stating that no further spirit was added to the ■wine up to the
 time it left their bodegas, when it would contain less than the
 orthodox 26 degrees of proof spirit. On the other hand, we
 were informed by the Jerez -wine-shippers that much of the
 manzanilla when it reaches them indicates upwards of 26 degrees
 of strength.                 *
     Once or at most t^wice every year the ■wine is passed from
 the lower to the upper scales of the solera, which at San Lucar
 never number less than ten, when about half the contents of
 each particular butt is ordinarily left remaining in it. On these
 occasions the wine is always carefully selected, any casks which
 have undergone a disadvantageous change being put aside for
 blending with inferior qualities. This system of soleras neces
 sitates the employment of a large capital, but it materially aids
 the development and improvement of the ■wine, the continual
          Hie Bodegas of San Lucar de Barrameda.                 25

blending whicb it undergoes causing it to modify its harsher
qualities.
    Pine manzanilla up to its fourth or fifth year has a fragrant
floral bouquet, which, combined with its singular freshness of
flavour, causes it to assimilate in a remarkable degree to good
Rhine wine. "We tasted in different bodegas scores of wines
ranging from their first up to their ninth or tenth years, and
foimd that it was only when the wine was in its fourth or fifth
year that the peculiar bitter aromatic flavour for which manza
nilla is distinguished had completely manifested itself. In Senora
Manjon's bodega we tasted manzanillas twenty years old. One
of these wines had developed a distinct amontUlado character,
while another was of the nutty-flavoured oloroso type.
    Manzanilla is the produce of the highly-prized species of
grape which passes under the name of ths listan in San Lucar,
and is known throughout the Jerez district as the palomino
bianco. The bunches are large, the berries being of a medium
size, and when thoroughly ripe of a brownish golden tinge.
Their flavour is pleasant, and they contain an abundance of sac
charine. Much diversity of opinion prevails as to the origin of
this name of manzanilla, the common belief being that it is
owing to the San Lucar wine resembling the camomile (in
Spanish manzanilla) in flavour; but persons likely to be well
informed enteidain no doubt that it takes its name from its
striking similarity to a wine produced at a place called Manza
nilla, some five-and-twenty miles from Seville. A hundred years
ago the finer San Lucar growths used to be largely expoided in
jars to the Spanish South American colonies. To-day more than
haff the wine goes to Jerez and Pueiio de Santa Maria for
shipment, the remainder being consumed chiefly in the locality
and at Cadiz and surrounding districts. The stocks of manza
nilla, vino de color, and dulce, principally, of course, the former,
at San Lucar, are estimated to amount ordinarily to 100,000
butts, an average vintage yielding about 18,000 butts.
   Before quitting San Lucar we had an opportunity of witness
ing a gipsy concert in the still-used coclqrit of that pleasant little
•26                   Facts about Sherry.

Andalusian town. The room was dimly lit up by a few feeble
lamps, wbieb gave scarcely more light than the moon itself
shining through the open "window. The performers, three men
and a woman, the latter in a light muslin gO'wn, were posted in
the pit itself. The audience, -with occasional exceptions,
belonged to the gipsy race, and the appearance among them of a
trio of Englishmen caused considerable sensation, and even led
to the reinforcement of the few municipal guards told off to
preserve the peace at the entertainment. The singing of the
men was highly characteristic, and very much after the Arab
style. A few words in a half-Spanish, hah-Gritano dialect, sung in
a high-pitched and somewhat melancholy key,were succeeded by
a pause filled up by some weird notes of the guitar, the audience
keeping time by loudly clapi^ing their hands, and indulging in
frenzied acclamations of delight whenever any favourite passage
caught the ear. The singing was varied from time to time by the
woman dancing one of those slow, languid, semi-voluptuous
movements common in the East, -with the guitar accompanying
each successive motion of her flexible frame.




          AEBIVAI, OF IttriES WITH GHAFES AT TUB LAGAE.
             Jerez Vineyards North of the Town.                    27



        in.—Jerez Vineyards North op the Town.
The Amoroso, Eom.mo, la Paz, and Ducha Vineyards of Seuor Gonzalez—
   The Abandoned Oratory—Potluck with the Vintagers—The Vineyard of
    Senor Jose Pemartin in the Cerro de Santiago—Proceedings of a Jerez
    Mob in 1871—Senor Domecq's Miijuelo at High Macharnndo—The
    "Alnmbra"—Senor Domecq's System of Vinification—Viewfrom the Tower
    at High Macharnndo—The Press-house, Bodega, and Casa de la Gente—
    The Almocaden and A. B. Vineyards.
   The Jerez vineyards—upwards of fifteen thousand acres in
extent—are distributed over a tract of undulating country some
twelve and a half miles long by less than ten miles broad, the
town.standing nearly in the centre. The first vineyards we
visited belonged to Senor Gronzalez, and were distant from one
to two leagues of Jerez in a northerly direction. In the outskirts
of the town we passed the deserted jjalatial chateau, surrounded
by large and beautiful gardens, the construction of which some
dozen years ago simply ruined one of the richest sherry shippers
of Jerez. A grove of olive-trees occupied the slope on our left
hand; and this passed, our vehicle went ploughing a foot deep
through a primitive sandy road,skirted by tall banks and hedges
of prickly pear dark cypress-trees in couples flanking the large
gateways which conduct along shady avenues to pleasant villas
among the vines. Soon we came into an open plain covered
with scanty stubble, which, after having been eaten almost bare
by oxen, was considerately given up to herds of goats. The
Gribalbin mountain rose up some leagues ahead of us, and the
more distant ranges of the Sierra de Jerez, including the loftier
peaks of the Penon de San Cristobal, las Cabras, and el Algibe,
bounded the horizon on the right hand, while undulating hills,
planted with vines and with handsome country-houses crowning
their summits, shut in the view upon the left. After a time we
dipped down into a hollow and followed a level road, skirted on
one side by vineyards dotted over with groups of men gathering
grapes or marching in gangs with their piled-up tinetas deftly
balanced on their heads, to spread out the bunches to diy in the
28                    Facts about Sheiiy.

neighbouring alniijar. An occasional inscription on some gate
way or along the fa9ade of a casa de vina intimated that one or
the other patch of vines was named after our Lady of Consolation,
our Lady of the Angels, or a favourite patron saint. Sweeping
shai-ply round to the left and ascending a low hill, we an-ived at
the casa of the Amoroso vineyard, surmounted by a fantastical
weathercock formed of the painted figure of a vintager plucking
grapes. Here we found several of the primitive mule-carts
common to the south of Spain being laden with butts of mosto
for Jerez. The casks, after having their hoops tightened by the
cooper, were mounted on to the carts, when the bungs were
withdrawn and zigzag-shaped metal tubes were inserted in tbeir
place, to allow the carbonic acid generated in the fermenting
mosto to escape, and prevent the mosto itself running over from
the excessive jolting of the butts along rough country roads, or
the violence of the fennentation induGed by exposure to a tem
perature only a little below 100 deg. Fahrenheit.
    The Amoroso vineyard, in the famous viticultural district of
Carrascal, is about sixty acres in extent, and contains principally
vines of the prized palomino'species, planted only a little more
than four feet apart. Most of the vines range from fifty to
sixty years old, which conduces materially to the high quality of
the wine, fine wine, as a rule, being rarely produced from vines
which have not attained or passed their prime. The aspect of
the Amoroso vineyard is westerly,so that it enjoys the advantage
of escaping the scorching blasts of the dreaded Levanter. In
the press-house, containing half-a-dozen lagares, furnished with
the old-fashioned wooden screw, the grapes were being trodden
and pressed in the manner we have already described, and which
is universal throughout the sherry district. Owing to the
excessive dryness of the season, the same small quantity of
gypsum was being used as we saw employed at San Lucar.
   From the Amoroso vineyard it is only a short drive to that
of Romano, some sixty-five acres in extent, and occupying a
neighbouring slope in the same district of Carrascal. Here we
found nearly a dozen different species of vines intermingled.
           Jerez Vineyards North of the Town.                  29

including black as -well as wMte varieties. The vintage here, as
in all the vineyards around Jerez, -would last scarcely two-thirds
of the ordinary time, o-wing to a general deficiency in the crop,
which in many vineyards fell short of even half of an average one.
    On leaving Eomano the horses' heads were turned north
wards, and onward we went for several miles in a straight line,
across lightly-ploughed uninclosed fields, to the most distant of
the Jerez -vineyards. On the neighbouring hills numerous brood
mares and their foals were huddled together to obtain all the
shade they could from the fierce rays of the noonday sun. We
noticed that they invariably posted themselves on the brow of
the hUl, and on the side facing the wind, so as to secure the fuH
 benefit of the faintest breeze. There were olives to the right and
 olives to the left of us, with a large farm on the skirts of the
plain. Presently we struck a narrow road, and five minutes
afterwards were driving through the Vina dela Paz—^the Vineyard
of Peace—and up to its little white-walled casa, set off -with
bright green shutters and balconies. Hear the large old-
fashioned weU in front, some vintagers, in the midst of a plague
of wasps, were spreading out newly-gathered grapes, principally
of the palomino and mantuo varieties, on round mats of esparto,
there to dry in the full blaze of a southern sun. The roof of the
adjacent press-house, where the pisadores, or treaders, and the
tiradores, or pressers, were steadily at work, was much loftier
than usual,and a full current of air swept through the building,
one great advantage of which was the retarding of any too hasty
fermentation of the must.
    A walk through the vines, kept according to custom scrupu
lously free from weeds,brought us to the neighbouring -vineyard
of Ducha, upwards of eighty acres in extent. Here, although
the crop was small,the grapes were remarkably fine. They were
being trodden in a lagar by three men abreast—aU. with their eyes
steadily fixed upon their work as though determined that not a
grape Should escape their heavy tread. The must yielded by
them was clearer than usual, and remarkably sweet.             The
 daughter of the capataz of the vineyard, a charming little
30                    Facts about Sherry.

Spanish, girl in light striped dress and nankeen apron, followed
us about everywhere, gravely watching our movements with
folded arms and inquisitive eyes. At one end of the casa she
pointed out to us a little oratory with a covered altar inclosing
a painting of the Virgin and Child, the green-and-gold doors of
which were decorated with religious emblems. In more pious
times a little beU above the roof used to summon the vintagers
for some distance around to Sunday mass. Of late years,
however,the religious sentiments of the Andalusian peasant have
sensibly declined under the influence of revolutionary teaching,
and the little Ducha oratory, like scores of Rimiln.r ones around
Jerez,is no longer applied to its intended purpose. The capataz
of the vineyard had, nevertheless, turned it to advantageous
account,for from the rafters of the roof hundreds of huge bunches
of selected grapes hung suspended to long canes, with the object
of preserving them for table use until as late a period of the year
as possible.
   The court in front of the casa de la vina was planted round
with the adelfa, or rose laurel, a favourite shrub in the Jerez
vineyards, and stiU in all the magnificence of its bloom at this
season of the year. Two stately cypresses stood as sentinels at
the entrance to the vineyard, on the highest point of which
another of these funereal trees was planted. From hence a most
extensive view was obtained over the broad plain, covered in
many parts with dwarf pabns, as well as over the neighbouring
olive-groves and the hill-slopes planted with vines, while rising
up grandly behind all were the tall peaks of the distant Sierra—
grey, sombre, and cold in the surrounding flood of sunlight.
   Hot as the day was, our long drive and the exhilarating
atmosphere had so far sharpened our appetites that we were
glad to accept an invitation to share potluck with the Ducha
vintagers, whose dinner-hour it chanced to be,and better potluck
it was never our fortune to fall in with. It consisted of a ragout
o mutton,stewed m olive oil and flavoured with capers and sweet
capicums,and was tender as a spring chicken. It was necessary
 0 an e one s knife deftly, for forks are looked upon as super-
                  (I ,    •




                         .i         .V , • »




         , ■•   ,«?4     .;^ .; ,



                         ■!%!■




tt 0 «

                                               1-
            Jerez Vineyards North of the Town.               31

fluities in these parts. When dinner vfas over the men hetook
themselves to the stone benches beneath the arcade of the casa
and silently smoked their cigarettes. The Andalusians enjoy
the reputation of being light-hearted and gay, but in the vine
yards their light-heartedness seems to subside into taciturnity,
and their gaiety tp partake of the lugubrious.
    One of the most important viticultural districts around Jerez,
both as regards the quality of its products and the extent of its
vineyard area, is that of Macharnudo; and the renowned
Majuelo, belonging to Senor Domecq,is at once the largest and
most celebrated vineyard of the locality. "Majuelo" really means
a young plantation of vines; and this fine old vineyard,planted in
part upwards of eighty years ago by the founder of the oldest
existing firm in Jerez, stiU retains its juvenile name. It lies
north-west of the town; and to reach it we drive along the
usual sandy road,past the customary olive-grove in the outskirts,
between the interminable prickly pear hedges, and through vast
Tininclosed fields of stubble, meeting seemingly the same lumber
ing buUock-carts with their jolting butts of mosto, the same
jaunty red-sashed caballeros astride their ambling mules, the
same patiently-enduring donkeys, and the same half-fed herds of
goats and oxen. We turned out of our way to visit the Cerro de
Santiago, and took the opportunity of inspecting the vineyard
belonging to Senor Jose Pemartin, who has a fine house with a
tower perched upon the summit ofthe hill. During the troublous
times of 1871 a Jerez mob collected here and sent out scouts to
 Trebujena and elsewhere for reinforcements before making a
 contemplated attack upon the sherry capital. To pass away the
 time they broke into the wine-cellars and swallowed their
 contents; then,after setting fire to the house,valiantly decamped.
 The surrounding vineyard is some seventy acres in extent, and
 the vines are, as usual, mainly of the palomino and the Pedro
 Jimenez varieties. As it was late in the season when we made
 our visit we found the vintage just concluded, and the mosto
 stored according to the practice prevailing at this vineyard in
 the bodega belonging to the casa, in preference to exposing it to
  32                   Facts ahout Sherry.

  a. tropical temperature by carting it to Jerez. Tbe result would
  seem to justify tbis course, for the wine invariably turns out
  well.
     We now drove to High Machamudo,to the vineyard of Senor
  Domecq. Here the vintage was also finished, and about a
_ thousand men were engaged on what is termed the alumbra—
 that is, loosening the soil and forming a square trough round
 the stem of each vine, to. enable it to secure the full benefit of
 the autumn rains. This operation would occupy a fortnight,
 and as the vineyard is 500 acres in extent, each man would get
 through his quarter of an acre (or trough round about 450 vines)
 in a week, for which he would receive 64 reals, nearly 12s. The
 total annual cost per acre of a Jerez vineyard varies from .£10
 to as much as £18 in certain instances. The labour done will
 include, in addition to the vintaging of the crop, the various
 prunings of the vines, the placing of supports to sustain the
 heavier bunches of grapes, the several operations of loosening
 and turning over the soil, weeding it,troughing round the vines,
 and the subsequent filling up of the holes. The vineyards are
 never manured excepting in the case of newly-planted vines.
 Over some fifty acres or more of Senor Domecq's vineyard the
 vmes are not in full bearing; some are very old, while others,
 planted to renew those that have died off, have not yet arrived at
 maturity. Here, as in all the good vineyards, the palomino
 variety of grape predominates. When the vines are pruned one
 branch is left with a single knot and a second branch with four
 or five knots upon it. Senor Domecq has found by experience
 that the best wine is produced by mixing the bunch of grapes
 from the branch with the single knot (the juice of which is very
 sweet) with the central bimches of the other branch, the berries
 of which, as a rule, are smaller than the rest, have thick skins,
and consequently contain an abundance of tannin. The wine
thus produced is of high character, and remarkable for fulness
and strength. The result of the vintage just concluded gave
only 450 butts, of which 385 were fine dry wine, and the
remainder Pedro Jimenez and Tintilla—the latter from sweet
                                      j


                            * y t •




\ rfl 1 i- '*-1-1   t-■»-
The Majuei.0 Vinevard, with House and Tower at High Macharmh
            Jerez Vineyards North of the Town,               33

black Alicante grapes after they had been exposed to the sun for
a considerable time. This wine, unlike the Eota Tent, is per
fectly fermented, the mosto being left upon the skins for four-
and-twenty hours, and then drawn off to complete its fermenta
tion in other casks.
    A large inconvenient residence, dominated by a lofty square
tower and partly hidden by a belt of ornamental trees, occupies
the most elevated point of High Macharnudo. A winding
avenue of acacias, mulberry-trees, and cypresses leads to the
house,the principal apartments of which, long since unoccupied,
are decorated in a fantastic fashion, and recall the time of the
lirst French Empire,when Joseph sat on the Spanish throne and
Soult lorded it in Andalusia. The view from the tower embraces
a perfect panorama of vine-clad slopes and hiUs, scattered faims,
white-walled towns, and hazy mountain peaks. The adjacent
press-house—the largest we have ever seen—contains as many
as twenty lagares. Adjoining is a capacious bodega capable of
storing 1,000 butts, but the mosto is no longer left to ferment
there. The principal casa de la gente is a vast apartment of
three aisles, and accommodates several hundred men, for the
daily ragout of whom and their fellows about fifteen sheep were
being regularly killed.
   In face of High Macharnudo and on the opposite side of the
Trebujena road are the Almocaden vineyards, whose Moorish
name, signiiyiug captain of troops guarding the camps, suggests
a somewhat remote antiquity. The wine produced here, and
especially in the vineyard of Matamoros, is highly valued at
Jerez. Another excellent vineyard, known as the A. B.—these
being the initials of a former proprietor—adjoins Senor Domecq's
Majuelo on the other side. It is only thirty acres in extent, but
it produces an admirable fino wine of remarkable delicacy, which
the owner, Senor Gonzalez, rears and ships intact. A few
hundred yards off is another small vineyard belonging to the
same proprietor, which also yields a high-class wine, though
not of the same refined character.
34                       Facts about Sherry.




                  IV.—Other Jerez Vineyards.

The Cerro de Obregon Vineyard of Messrs. Cosens and Co.—Treatment of the
     Grapes for Vino Dolce—The Arrangement of the Casa de la Vina—^Wasted
     Eaisins—Breakfast at the Vineyard—Sequestrations hy Brigands in the
     Neighbourhood of Jerez—The Successful Eesistance of Aunt Matias's
     Nephew—Short Shrift to Captured Brigands—The San Julian, Leon,and
     Las Canas Vineyards—Bobbery of the Guard at the latter—The Tula Vine
     yard, with its mock Moorish Castle and Battlemented Almijar—^Vineyards
     of the Plain—The Vineyard facing the Spoon Wineshop—Senor Campo's
     Vineyard—^Waste of Labour in working both Wine-Press and Plough—
     The Cartuja Monastery and its Ancient Bodega.

    A SHORT league to tlie west of Jerez, and along the San
Lucar road, is the Cerro de Obregon vineyard, belonging to the
large shipping house of Cosens and Co. Like the vineyards of
Carrascal and Ducha already described,the soil is albariza, and,
although the vines are scarcely twenty years old, the wine
yielded is of fine quality. We started off there early in the
morning,our way lying through undulating country covered with
stunted stubble, of which herds of oxen were having the run in
search of such stray wisps ofstraw as might hitherto have escaped
their observation. Mule and bullock carts, jolting along to
Jerez with butts of mosto, and raising dense clouds of dust in
their wake, continually met us on the road, in company with
much-enduring donkeys, happy enough when their ordinary load
was not supplemented by a couple of strapping feUows astride
their unwilling backs.
    The vineyard, upwards of eighty acres in extent, and over
which not so much as a single weed or a blade of grass could be
detected, covers the sides of a steep hill, having on its summit a
small plateau, where the casa de la vina has been erected.
Hence a beautiful and extensive view is obtained over farms and
a succession of rolling ground, rich vine-clad hills, slopes, and
ridges, intersected bv winding roads, and dotted over with
bright-looking little white casas hemmed in by occasional trees.
^..1
 .-■i




        i-




                    Mr
                 ■ \'k.X



                                J-. j \i
             •             VivV'a'iV'-V''';'': ■ ■
ViNTAOEua Arriving with Grapes at the Aiairiar ok the Cehro de Obregon Vineyart).
                    Other Jerez Vineyards.                   35

and witli scores of look-out perckes of esparto; for far and near
around Jerez -watcli has to be kept over tbe grapes from tbe
moment they begin to ripen untU tbe vintage is concluded. To
tbe left, in tbe mid-distance, we could discern tbe cbmcb-towers
and bodegas of Jerez, flanked by a long sweep of purple bills
fading away in tbe bazy sunsbine, wbile on tbe far-off horizon
a glimpse was obtained of tbe Bay of Cadiz and of tbe masts of
tbe shipping there riding at anchor.
    At tbe moment of our arrival gangs of men from different
parts of tbe vineyard kept coming to tbe almijar, or large walled
court in front of tbe casa, with richly-bronzed grapes piled up in
their bttle square wooden tinetas, tapering towards their base,
and provided with flexible bandies of esparto. As vino dulce
was being made, tbe grapes, which were at once spread out, bad
to remain exposed to tbe sun for several days. Some neighbouring
groups were engaged in detaching those grapes already suffi
ciently dned from tbe larger stalks preparatory to their being
trodden and pressed in tbe numerous lagares, where pisadores
and tiradores were actively at work.
   Tbe casa de la vina of tbe Cerro de Obregon is a good type
of tbe kind of building commonly found throughout tbe Jerez
vineyards. It consists of merely a single story, and its walls,
pierced with only a few small windows,are of dazzling whiteness.
Tbe central portion of its front is occupied by tbe customary
shady arcade, with bright flowering plants trained up its sobd
square pillars, tbe rooms of tbe capataz aud bis family being
situated on tbe right; wbile tbe stabling and tbe quaint-looking
kitchen, with its collection of huge copper caldrons belonging
to tbe casa de la gente, where tbe men employed in tbe vineyard
are accommodated, occupy tbe wing on tbe left. In tbe rear is
tbe casa de la gente itself, and in a bne with it and running
behind tbe apartments of tbe capataz is a capacious bodega for
storing tbe mosto until it is conveyed on mule or bullock carts
to Jerez. At tbe back of tbe building is a long press-bouse con
taining as many as nine lagares, besides tbe usual hydraulic
press, where tbe several processes of treading tbe grapes,building
86                   Facts about Sherry.

the pile, jerMng the screw, and pumping up the hydraulic press
were going on at the same time.
    We noticed here that, although sweet wine was being made,
a large percentage of grapes which had dried on the vines tiU
they had become complete raisins, and which nevertheless could
have been made to yield a considerable amount of concentrated
juice, usually escaped pressure. That they should do so in.the
lagares was a matter of no surprise, and it seems that, owing
to their becoming embedded among the pressed skins of the
general mass of grapes, even the hydraulic press was powerless
to crush them. Among them, no doubt, were a certain number
of uvas muertas, or dead shrivelled grapes; stiU in some vine
yards we had observed hundredweights of perfectly good raisins—
from which, at Chateau d'Tquem, the wine known as the creme
de tete is produced—scarcely one with its skin broken, but which
had been thrown aside with the refuse to be exchanged with the
neighbouring farmers for straw and be given by them to their
pigs,who doubtless duly appreciated the sacchariferous dehcacy.
    After inspecting the vintagers at their early dinner in the
dimly-lighted, cool casa de la genta, we were about proceeding
to another vineyard when a lad trotted up on a mule with well-
laden panniers swung over its sides. We learned with satis-
fection from one of the proprietors of the Cerro de Obregon,
who was doing the honours of the vineyard, that these con
tained our breakfasts, which comprised prawns the size of infant
lobsters,red mullet fresh that morning from San Lucar,succulent
Spanish ham, and cutlets, with various etcseteras, among which
was a dish composed of new-laid eggs and finely-chopped
tomatoes, fried together in oil at the casa, and forming a kind
of paste capable of sending the most fastidious Parisian
gourmet into raptures, and giving even a finer flavour to our
host's choice old amontillado.
   Remarking during breakfast upon the beautiful view which
the site occuj)ied by the casa de la vina commanded, we asked
our host why, the spot being so convenient to Jerez, and the air
among the vine-clad hiUs so delicious, he did not build a villa
VlXTARKIiS AT DINNER IN THE CaSA DE LA ReNTA OP THE CERRO HE OBREGON,
_   ,




        1 1'1M ft   I   1 ilii^Ttifrfl
                     Other Jerez Vineyards.                   37

 there. "Because," he replied,"I might incur the risk of being
 sequestrated." On asking for an explanation he informed me
 that a person of any means could scarcely live even that short
 distance from Jerez -without the chance of himself or some
member of his family being carried off to the mountains, only
to be released on payment of an exorbitant ransom. "True,"
said he,"during vintage-time certain families still occupy their
country-houses among the vines, as was the general custom some
 years ago, when the vintage furnished the occasion for a round
of -visits and festivities; but they only do so," continued he,
"-with arms constantly within reach, or at considerable risk."
Calling his manager, he asked him to give the particulars of some
sequestrations of recent date.     From bim we learned that
a couple of months ago the son of a farmer near Arcos, distant
five leagues from Jerez, was carried off and kept for more than a
fortnight in the mountains, and only eventually released on his
father s paying a certain ransom. So recently, too, as last
month the nephew of an old lady, kno-wn in her neighbourhood
as "Aunt Matias," was carried off from a place called Patema,
also five leagues from Jerez. The young fellow lived with his
aunt on a small farm, and, as she was unable to scrape together
the thousand dollars or so demanded as ransom, his captors set
him at liberty on receiving one-third of that sum and being
promised the remainder in two equal portions at stated intervals.
The first instalment was paid promptly enough, but not the
final one, whereupon a couple of brigands made their appear
ance; and not succeeding in meeting -with the man they were
in quest of, rather than return and report the utter failure
of their mission to their comrades, they decided upon carrying
off a cousin of their former prisoner as a sort of hostage. Just,
however, as they were about pouncing upon their prey a black
smith's assistant inconveniently appeared upon the scene, and
one of the brigands had ingeniously to draw him aside, while
his comrade, by the menace of a loaded gun, obliged Armt
Matias's second nephew to accompany him. As soon as they
reached a retired spot the brigand commanded his prisoner to
38                    Facts about Shc'rry.

halt, that he might bind his arms, according to custom, behind
his "bach. The left arm was first secured, and as the brigand
was preparing to bind the right one, his victim, glancing over
his shoulder, perceived that his captor had laid down his gun
some little distance off. Quick as thought he drew a long knife
from his sash and made a stab at the brigand, but the knife
having stuck fast in its sheath, merely dealt a stout blow, though
fortunately sufficient to stagger the ruffian. Before the latter
could recover himself and seize his gun the nephew of Aunt
Matias clenched the sheath between his teeth, and, swiftly
drawing out the knife, stabbed the brigand mortally. Ere the
scoundrel died he called upon his comrade by name for help;
but by the time the latter came up their prisoner was beyond
reach of the shots fired after him. The brigand, after giving
useless chase, returned and calmly mutilated the face of his
dead companion in order that he might not be recognised.
Aunt Matias's nephew, however, remembered the name that
the dying man had called out, and this led to its owner
being captured by the authorities with several others of the
band. At that moment they were believed to be in prison at
Seville awaiting trial, still it is not unlikely they were already
shot. In Spain it is a common practice to shoot prisoners of
their class, and by official order, while conducting them from one
place of imprisonment to another,on the pretence that they have
either mutinied against their guards or made an attempt to
escape. Some political prisoners who heard the ominous order
given,"Take especial care your prisoners do not escape," and
knew that it meant "Kill them on the road, at once asked
leave to have their hands and feet shackled, that their guards
might have no excuse for shooting them down in cold blood.
     The brigands who make occasional descents in the more
immediate vicinity of the sherry metropolis are not, it would
appear, devoid of all feelings of humanity, for a Jerez gentle
man sequestrated by them a few years ago was considerately
provided with white bread daily, and duly prayed with at night
during his enforced sojourn among the bracing air of the Sierra.
                     Other Jerez Vineyards,                      39

 He was none the less pleased,however, when his ransom of 8,000
 dollars in specie arrived and he was permitted to bid his conrteous
 captors an affectionate adieu.
    On quitting the Cerro de Obregon we proceeded on foot to the
adjacent vineyards of San Julian, comprising some 350 acres of
excellent chalky soil, planted principally with the palomino
variety of vine, the mostos of which have long been highly
esteemed in the locality. Prom here we drove to the neighbour
ing vineyards of Ldon and Las Canas, in the Upper Balbaina
district. The sun at this moment being at its fiercest, such
"caballeros" as we encountered astride mule and donkey sought
to shield themselves from its scorching rays by throwing their
white hnen jackets over their broad sombreros, while aU mule or
bullock drivers who were not sound asleep on their carts inva
riably halted at the ventoiillos, or wayside drinking-places run
up especially for the vintage, to drink some more reviving
beverage than water. The soU. of the Leon vineyard resembles
that of the Carrascal district, and its mostos are held in the
same esteem. Its little casa is after the Moorish style—blank
walls, with here and there a loophole to serve as window, a low
flat roof, and a solid square tower rising at one end. At Las
Canas we were received by a trio of howbng dogs, who sprang
at us in company the full length of their chains, and it was only
when they had been removed to a distance that we succeeded in
gaining access to the courtyard of the casa. The vintage here
was already over, and with the exception of a few butts of vino
dulce from the Pedro Jimenez grape, it was all dry white wine
which had been made.       Las Canas, like all the more valuable
vineyards of the Jerez district, is planted principally with the
palomino vine, and produces a vino fino of great delicacy and
character. We had already tasted various choice samples of
it, free, of course, from added spirit, of different ages, including
some of the amontillado type, in the bodega of the proprietor,
Senor de Agreda, at Jerez. We gave the preference to a wine of
twelve years old,of great delicacy and freshness offlavour,the older
wines being in our judgment too pungent for ordinary drinking.
40                    Facts about Sherry.

    The casa de la vina of Las Canas boasts a good-sized bodega
of its own, where the mosto used formerly to ferment until racked
from the lees the following spring. The proprietor, however,
considers that the wine develops better if sent at once to Jerez
"to ferment in a larger bodega, and for several years past he has
 adopted this course. Like many of the casas hereabouts, that of
 Las Canas has been designed as a summer residence for its
owner.    The ground floor, where the various processes of vini-
fication are carried on, resembles a series of rude cloisters, with
an occasional stone cross or niche for a statue of the Virgin
above the arches, while the panels of the doors of the upper
apartments are decorated with paintings of saints. The casa,
moreover, has its abandoned little oratory. Vor years past only
the workpeople have lived there, and now the vintage was over
merely a single guard remained in charge.
     There being neither mosto in the cellar, valuables in the
house, nor weU-to-do residents to protect, we were cunoua to
know why three savage dogs were kept for the defence of
the place. The reason given by the guard was this: A few
months ago a couple of red-sashed, black-bearded ruiSans
favoured him with a call, ostensibly to beg a draught of water.
But, suddenly unsheathing their long knives, they threatened
him with death if he did not surrender his watch and all the
money he possessed. They had made a descent from the Sierra,
and the guard being too insignificant a personage to carry off, they
were willing to accept what he possessed, which amounted to 900
reals, or about nine guineas. The guard had no alternative but
to comply, for, as the familiar proverb says,"Bntre la espada y
la pared"—meaning when between the sword and the wall
refusal is out of the question. Having secured their booty, the
robbers took their departure, vowing vengeance if the smallest
nlarm were given—a threat which the guard contemptuously
disregarded, and luckily they were captured.
     We now drove along solitary by-roads through the entire of
the Balbaina district, between steep banks planted as often with
canes and aloes as with the prickly pear. A succession of large
                     Other Jerez Vineyards                     41

  and handsome houses, generally -with towers and encompassed
  hy trees or surrounded by pleasant gardens, together with
  numerous smaller casas,were seen among the rolling sea of vines.
 They were almost invariably unoccupied; for the well-to-do
 vineyard proprietors around Jerez dare not indulge ia the
 pleasant patriarchal habit of sitting under their own vines and
 fig-trees. At length we reached the Tula vineyard in the lower
 Balbaina district, its casa resembling a Moorish castle with tail
 battlemented keep, surmounted by a turret,and flanked by small
 rormd towers with cupolas, and having even sham cannon peep
 ing from its embrasures above clusters of brilliant rose laurels-
 The large almijar, too, was inclosed with pointed battlements.
 This costly whim appears to have brought ruin upon the late
 proprietor, and the vineyard passed into the hands of Senor
 Q-onzalez. From the summit of the tower a view is gained in
 one direction over miles of undulating vineyards, while in
another we catch sight of Cadiz and its bay, with Rota,famed
for its Tent wine. Port St. Mary, and San Lucar, the long line of
peaks of the Sierra de Jerez rising up in unbroken succession in
an easterly direction. The Tula vineyard comprises about sixty
acres, and at the time of our visit the vintage was drawing to a
close, for the final carretadas of grapes were being trodden in
the lagares. The capataz here was a great connoisseur in fight
ing-cocks, and had a collection of these pugnacious birds shut up
in separate cages. With the lower-class Spaniards cock-fightino-
is almost as favourite a pastime as the national corrida de toros
itself.
    Our next excursion was to some of the vineyards of the
plain to the east and north-east of Jerez. The vineyards situated
on this side in the immediate neighbourhood of the town are
believed to be the most ancient of aU. At any rate, distinct
aUusion is made to them in a contemporary Arab accoimt of the
siege of Jerez in 1285 by the army of Jusuf,who is described as
having the vines cut down preparatory to pitching his camp
The road we took was skirted on the left by a gigantic hedge of
prickly pears, little short of twelve feet in height and sohd in
42                    Facts about Sherry.

proportion, and -wliicli an enterprising elephant wonld find it
difficult to hreak throngli. At the first Tineyard, named "la
•vina enfrente de la venta de la Cuchara"—ia other words,"the
 -vineyard facing the Spoon -wineshop"—-where the vintage -was at
-its height, we found the crop was estimated to he much larger in
 proportion than at any of the -vineyards on the hills and slopes.
 This little plot of two-and-twenty acres, planted chiefly -with the
 mantuo-castellano vine, produces in good years as many as 100
 butts, or upwards of four and a-half butts per acre, of good
 white wine.    Here, as elsewhere, we found very little yeso or
 gypsum being used, owing to the extreme dryness of the season.
     Another small vineyard which we visited belonged to Senor
 Campo. It was planted -with mantuos intermingled -with palo
 mino and other varieties, and showed evidence of very careful
 cultivation. The soil, of red earth, had the merit of retaining
 the moisture long after it had filtered through the chalky sod of
 the hdls. An old-fashioned lever press was in operation here,
 which, although of no great power, required a couple of men to
 work a -windlass, whde three others set the lever in motion a
 waste of labour which has its counterpart in the system of
 ploughing prevalent throughout Andalusia,^ The plough, which
 is of the rudest construction, is worked with a couple of oxen,
 and at least three, and frequently half a-dozen, or even more, of
 these primitive implements -will follow one another in the same
 farrow to insure the sod being sufficiently turned, and yet even
 then the furrows are only a few inches deep.
     After visiting other vineyards of the plain which promised
 scarcely the same satisfactory crops as those we had already in
 spected, we drove in the direction of the Cartuja, a fine old
 Carthusian monastery,which,in its day, was by far the wealthiest,
 as it was unquestionably the grandest,in this part of the country.
  Towards the latter part of our route the vineyard slopes of Mont
  Alegre, terminating in an abrupt point kno-wn as the Gabeza de
  la Azena, together with those of Buena Yista, shut in the view
  on either hand. The vineyards formerly beffingmg to the monas
  tery are some distance off in a northerly direction, and retain at
                    Other Jerez Vineyards.                  43

the piesent day somewhat of their ancient reputation as well as
their old name of"las vinas de la Cartuja." The ancient bodega,
in which the monks could conveniently store a thousand butts of
wine,^ is nearly perfect, otherwise the vast and highly ornate
bmlding, a monument of the piety or the fanaticism of past cen
turies, is now little else than a ruin. At its feet winds the
Guadalete, the Arab's river of delight, and in the plain beyond
one of the decisive battles of the world was fought, resulting
in the defeat of Roderick, last of the Gothic kings, whose
disasters have formed the theme of endless song and story.




       GATEWAY OE THE ANCIENT BODEGA OF THE CA'RTTT.TA,
^                      Facts about Sherry.



    ■y    The TV^ines op Jeeez—Blending Sheeet poe
                              Shipment.

System of Vinificatlon at Jerez—Vinos Finos and their Development into
    Palmas—Cause of Amontillado—Genuine Brown Sherries—Palos Cortados
    and Olorosos—Varieties of Eayas; Entre-finos, Bastes, Eedondos, and
    Ahocados—Maladies of the Jerez Wines—The Eearing of them by Seasons
    and hy Soleras—Vinos Dnlces j Pedro Jimenez—Vino de Color—Classes of
    Jerez Wines Shipped to England—namely,Natural Wines, Vintage Wines,
    Solera Wines, and Blended Wines—Blending of Sherry in the Cosens
    Bodegas—The Process in all its Details—The Grand Finos, AmontiUados,
    Olorosos, and Pasados of Cosens and Co.—Establishments of the Firm at
    Jerez and Puerto de Santa Maria.

    Two distinct kinds of wine are made at Jerez—namely, tlie
dry and tke sweet—and to a limited extent a tkird variety known
as vino de color. Witk respect to tke dry wine asIsaw it made
in scores of vineyards, tke grapes, wken of a good variety and
from a good vineyard, kad previously keen carefuBy looked over,
all decayed kunckes or kerries keing tkrown aside. Tkey kad
 also keen exposed to tke sun for a moderate time kefore keing
trodden and pressed. Beyond tkis tkere was no difference
wkatever in tke vimfication—wketker tkis was carried on m tke
vineyard or tke kodega—of tke very finest and tke commonest
wines, wken produced from a first pressure of tke fruit. Every
one cruskes tke grapes in tke same primitive way, uses muck tke
same old-faskioned kind of press, and ferments kis mosto under
tke same unscientific conditions. In tke majority of instances
gypsum is sprinkled over tke grapes eitker kefore or after tkey
are partially trodden, tke vineyards wkere tkis sukstance is not
employed keing comparatively few. Tkere is not tke smallest
disguise akout a practice dating kack to very remote times, and
ky-and-kyIskaU skow tkat tke adkerence to it ky tke wme-
growers of tke present day is unproductive of tke sligktest
karmful result.
     Tke mosto, after its transference to casks, wkick are never
         The Wines of Jerez—Blending Sherry for Shipment. 45

    filled to within ten or fifteen gallons of their fuU capacity, is
    almost invariahly removed from the vineyards to Jerez to ferment
    in the cool and capacious bodegas abounding there. This is all
    very -well. Still, if some little attention were paid towards
    avoiding the previous exposure of the butts of mosto, often for
    one or two days together, to a temperature approachiag fever
    heat at the casas of the vineyards—where Nature does much,man
    something, and science nothing at all—as well as during their
    transport to the bodegas, the fermentation would he conducted
    under more satisfactory conditions than can possibly be the case
    at present. In these bodegas the mosto remains completely isolated
    —it being disadvantageous to older wines to have new mosto
    fermenting beside them—with the bungs out of the butts, until
    the ensidng February or March. When the fermented wine is
    drawn from its lees into new casks—stUl with a vacant space left
    in them—a moderate quantity of aguardiente or grape-spirit is
    added to it.   This varies with fine wines from under 1 up to 2
    per cent., according to the nature of the vintage, and rises up to
    3 or 4 per cent, for the commoner wines. The wine, with the
    bungs of the butts laid lightly over their holes, now enters a
    transition period, during which butts of wine from the same
    vineyard, and which have experienced precisely the same treat
    ment, will develop totally different characteristics, while from 10
    to 20 per cent. wiU become bad beyond recovery.
       The vinos finos, or fine wines, grown on albariza soils, and
    made from the best varieties of grape, develop to a limited
    extent into amontillados, and eventually into olorosos, at times
    attaining this latter stage without passing through the former
    one. Such as have not undergone this development and remain
    vinos finos may be described as pale in colour, dry, soft, and
    delicate iu fiavour, spirituous yet entirely free from heat, and
    fresh to the taste. The finos passing into amontillados (so
    called from their resembling the fine old wines of Montilla) are
    classed as palmas, and the casks containing them have a sign
    resembling a single or double palm-leaf rudely chalked upon
    their front, according as they are regarded as single or double
                                                             D



L
46                    Facts about Sherry.

palma. Wine of tMs description is stonter, dryer, and more
pungent in flavour tlian an ordinary fino, is of a more decided
yellow or pale amber tinge, and wben of tbe double palma type
tastes riper, fuller, and altogether richer. The amontillado
character results from the wines developing the mycoderma vina,^
or so-called flowers of wine, in the earlier stages of their
existence. Under these conditions their alcohol, absorbing the
oxygen of the atmosphere, becomes largely transformed into
aldehyde, whence is due that marked etherous flavour commonly
foimd in wines of this description.
   The olorosos are known in their earlier stages as pales cor-
tados, from the butts containing them being marked with an
upright line intersected obliquely by a shorter one, and intended
to indicate a cut stick. They are deeper in colour than the
amontiUados, have a nutty flavour, and are fuller, richer, and
mellower to the taste, besides possessing an especially fragrant
bouquet. Inferior wines are known as entre-finos, or middling
flne ; bastos, rough or coarse ; redondos, round; and abocados,
mild. In the bodegas, however, the above are simply grouped
as single, double, and triple rayas, indicated respectively by one>
two, or three perpendicular lines chalked upon the butts. Single
raya is good-flavoured, dry, clean wine, but boasting no very
prominent qualities, while double and triple raya are less clean?
and in other respects altogether inferior, decreasing, in fact, in
quahty with the increase in the number of marks.
     Although the Jerez wines frequently show early signs which
indicate their futiire character,they cannot be classified with cer
tainty until after their third year. At this age they may perhaps be
considered fit for drinking,inasmuch as they will have completed
their fermentation; still they will greatly improve with increas
ing years. Wine newly drawn off the lees, if of good quality,
commands from .£11 to <£13 10s. the butt at Jerez, whereas^
inferior wines from the sandy soils can be bought at from £3 15s.
to £6 the butt—^these prices being exclusive of the cask. The
new wine has to be carefully reared, subject to the accidents of
falling off in quality, becoming scuddy, or turning sour, and
     The Wines of Jerez—Blending Sherry for Shipment. 47

witli the certaiaty of ■wasting 3 per cent, per annum "by the
evaporation of its watery particles. The chances of the ■wine
turning to vinegar from want of vinous strength may he met hy
the timely addition of spirit. It is scud, however, which is at
once the arch-enemy and the constant dread of the ahnacenista,
or ■wine-rearer, this malady attacking fine young ■wines, although
less frequently, as well as the inferior ones. It often shows itself
immediately after the wine has been racked, but more commonly
during the hot weather. Generally it runs its course, no cure
being known for it beyond the attempt to fine the 'wine ■with the
whites of eggs.
   A shipper buying a parcel of 100 butts of fine wine, the
produce of a single vineyard, shortly after it has been racked
from the lees, would regard the result as fortunate if two-thirds
turned out well. These would, perhaps, comprise about a dozen
butts of the oloroso type, a couple of dozen or more of the
amontniado type, and about three dozen single raya, while the
remaining third would belong partly to the inferior and partly to
the worthless class. If, however, the ■wine were light in character
it would probably produce no palo cortado or oloroso, in which
case one-half of it might turn out amontillado and fino.
    The preservation and ageing of the Jerez ■wines are carried on
after two different methods—that is to say, by seasons and by
the system of soleras.     The first consists in preserving each
vintage intact, in which case the wine goes on acquiring much
more consistency, colour, and aroma, while developing more
subtile characteristics of the nature of balsams and essences.
Generally indi-vidual gro-wths are not kept separate for more
than from four to six years, when they commence to form part of
the system of soleras, which has for its object the keeping up of
certain distinct types of wine by rearing younger -wines on the
foundation of old ones, as already explained. When -wine for
shipment is drawn off in limited quantities and in equal propor
tions from the butts composing a solera, whatever is drawn from
the cask containing the oldest wine, known as the solera madre
(whose origin in rare instances -will date as far back as a century
 48                    Facts about Sherry.

 and upwards), is replaced with the same hind of wine, but a year
 younger; and the same process goes on down to the bottom of
the scale—a course which insures the respective ages of the wine
being as far as possible preserved. This system is the one great
speciality of the sherry district, and constitutes the principal
wealth of the Jerez bodegas. It is not, however, invariably
carried out in all its integrity, but is subjected to various modi
fications, wines drawn off being frequently replaced, not by wine
of precisely the same character and almost the same age, but
simply by analogous growths. It should be mentioned that the '
deposit which collects at the bottom of the casks is never by any
chance removed, no matter how old the original wine may be.
One marked advantage of the solera system to the sherry
shipper is that it enables him to maintain the even character and
quality of the wines which he supplies, irrespective of good and
bad vintages.
   Of Jerez sweet wines, or vinos dulces, the principal is Pedro
Jimenez, made from the sweet translucent grape of the same
name, which is exposed to the sun not unfrequently for a fort
night, before being trodden and pressed. To each butt of this
wine about six or seven gallonsof spirit are added,while other white
wines made from different varieties of grapes have as much as
twenty gallons mixed with each butt of must, to check the fer
mentation and thereby retain the requisite amount of saccharine.
One-third of this quantity of spirit is poured into the cask as
soon as a small portion of the must has been filled in, another
third when the cask is almost half full, and the remainder when
it is nearly three-quarters full.
     Vino dulce is used to give softness and roundness to old and
pungent wines, as well as to the cruder youthful growths, and it
is remarkable how very smaU a quantity suffices perceptibly to
modify these opposite characteristics. Amontillados that are
tiglily esteemed at Jerez are invariably found too dry for EngHsh
tastes, much as the connoisseurs of to-day may affect excessively
dry wines. English correspondents often write for the driest
varieties, still they rarely,if ever,get them. "WheneverIreceive
     The Wines of Jerez—Blending Sherry for Shipment. 49

an order for the driest amontillado I have," remarked the prin
cipal shipper of this wine,"I always put a gallon or more of dulce
into it before shipping it, because I know that if I sent the wine
in its natural state I should be certain to have it returned upon
my hands." As little as one per cent, of dulce will impart a
softness to the drier wines, which otherwise they only acquire
after being, perhaps, half-a-dozen years in bottle. So decided
is its influence on the finer wines that every shipping house of
standing bestows especial care, if not upon the making of its
own vino dulce, at any rate in the selection of the dulce which
it uses. The larger firms, however, invariably prepare their
sweet wine themselves.
    Vino de color is composed of about nine parts of white wine
mosto and one part of what is termed arrope,the latter produced
by boiling in a large copper, and for a period of sixteen or
eighteen hours, five butts of unfermented must, which thereby
become reduced to one-fifth of the original quantity. Great
care is taken to skim the liquid during this operation, so as to
remove from it whatever impurities may be thrown off. The
result is a deep brown bitterish fluid of the consistency of treacle,
which, on being added to the mosto, ferments with it in the
regiilar way. Yiao de color, as its name implies, is used for
imparting colour to young and undeveloped wines, the natural
tint of which is pale and sickly-looking. When of high quality,
however,it not only gives a pleasant tint to the wine, but imparts
a certain amount of character to it as well.
   Four different classes of dry Jerez wines are shipped to
England—natural wines, understood to contain no added spirit;
vintage wines, the produce of individual vineyards and occa
sionally of specific years; solera wines, such as fino, amontillado,
and oloroso; and, finally, blended wines. The natural wines of
which I speak are not the wines commonly advertised in England
at low rates under that designation. Jerez wines perfectly free
from spirit cannot possibly be sold cheap in England, because
they require to be at least five years old; whereas the wines
offered as natural are generally young, unripe wines, whose
50                    Facts ahout Sherry.

fermentation lias not terminated, and wMcli come far more
frequently from Seville or La Mancha than from the Jerez
district. Such wines are necessarily unwholesome, for heat
revives their fermentative action, which completes itself in that
delicate organisation, the human stomach.
    The genuine natural wines of Jerez are carefully-selected
varieties, arrived not only at an age when their fermentation is
complete, hut whose growth has, so to say, stopped—wines
which, although remarkably delicate in flavour, still possess
STxfficient robustness to incui- the risks of a sea-voyage without
having alcohol added to them. The vintage wines, scarcely
known at all in England, are the produce of good vineyards in
the best viticultural districts,and have been reared intact,passing
through a solera in the majority of instances, but subjected to
no admixture with other wine, and receiving merely one per
cent, of spirit at the time of being drawn from the lees. In the
regular solera wines the distinct types into which the Jerez
growths are divided are kept perfectly distinct, although the
solera [as it becomes diminished is replenished by the growths
of varied years and districts, providing these are sufficiently
approximate in character to the parent wine. In drawing these
wines off for shipment, even as special types, they commonly
receive a slight blend of dulce, being regarded, and in many
instances with justice, as altogether too dry for English tastes,
their pungency often rendering them somewhat unpalatable.
The blended wines proper form the great bulk of the sherry
shipped to England, and when of high quality and artistically
treated are of splendid character, although perhaps less costly
than exceptional examples of pure soleras.
   Being anxious to witness in all its details this process of
blending wine for shipment, I profited by an invitation from the
resident partner of the firm of Cosens and Co., well known for
the perfection of their blends, and whose business places them
at only one remove from the head of the list of sherry shippers.
Most of the larger Jerez bodegas have their patches of flowers,
their rows of orange-trees, their clusters or avenues of acacias.
tti
Garden Court of Cosens and Co.'s Bodegas.
     The Wines of Jerez—Blending Sherry for Shipment. 51

imparting a pleasant air to tliese liuge ■wine-stores and their
immediate suiTOundings. The Cosens hodegas, which have
considerable architectural pretensions, are actually installed, as
it were, in a large garden, whose palms and pines, pimiento,
 oleander, olive, and orange-trees, obscure anything hke a complete
view of these structures. They occupy three sides of this garden,
the principal ones, a trio of lofty buildings parallel to each other
—their high-pitched roofs supported by graceful stone columns
with elegantly-carved capitals—being on our right hand after we
have passed through the entrance gateway. Immediately in
front of them is a wide colonnade stacked ■with casks seasoning
with water. The nearest bodega is the one where the younger
■wines are stored. Here we see casks of wine being raised to the
upper tiers by means of a movable iron crane—^the only one to
be found in the Jerez bodegas—instead of by the laborious,
 hazardous, and even dangerous method of a slanting tramway
 and ropes, in common use. Hear by is the shipping bodega,
 where we find the butts in which the wine is about to be blended
 arranged all ready in rows. Our attention is first called to the
 slate containing instructions for the head cellarman, and from
 which we see that the blend includes four varieties, and these of
 the very best. Here, too, figures the brand which -will be burned
 into the head of each cask, the shipping mark which "will be cut
 into it near the bung, the number of butts, and, finally, the class
 and quantities of the respective -wines of which the blend is to
 be composed. These include—
     Amontillado pasado, 1820                              . 7 arrobas.
     Double palma (amontUlado type), 1869 .       .    .   . 10 „
     Single palma (fino)                                    12J „
     Pedro Jimenez (vino dulce of the highest class)   .   . i „
 The "wines being dra-wn from what are termed soleras on finings
 ■will have had their spirit added to them at the time they were
 fined. Owing to their age and superior quahty, this, we were
 assured, would be equivalent to no more than a quarter, or at
  the utmost one-third, of an arroba to the butt of thirty arrobas.
  The alcohohc strength of a blended -wine of this class will indi-
  52                    Facts about Shern/.

  cate about 32 degrees of proof spirit. The arumbadores, or
  cellarmen, who stand by in readiness, are all well-made, active
  men in the habitual uniform of the Jerez bodegas—caps,coloui-ed
 shirts, light trousers, and the all-essential crimson or scai'let
 sash; and certainly looking as though unlimited sherry agreed
  remarkably weU with them. Tub-shaped funnels, inside which
— are fine hair sieves, serving in turn for all the butts, are fixed
  into the bung-holes of the fii-st and the third butts, and then the
  arumbadores commence drawing ofE the seven arrobas of amon-
 tillado pasado in the following fashion:—A small tub is placed
 under the cask containing this wine to catch any that may
 chance to be spilt. One of the men then takes a clavo, or huge
 round nail bent at the end, which is spear-shaped, and a canuto,
 or short wooden tube in which a cork has been inserted.
 Placing a jar that he holds in his left hand under the bung at
 the head of the butt, he draws the bung out with the clavo,
 catching in the jar whatever wine pours forth before he succeeds
 in ramming the canuto into the hole. The cork of the canuto
 is now removed, and, the jar being filled with the wine which
 gushes out, a second jar is slipped into its place at precisely the
 right moment, scarcely so much as a thimbleful of -wine being
 wasted. The man's companions keep handing him fresh jars,
 and receiving from him those akeady filled. These they empty
 into the shipping butts. These so-called jars (jarras) are a
 kind of wooden pitcher bound round with iron, and having a
 sharp rim and iron handle. They hold three-fourths of an arroba.
    The seven arrobas of pasado and the ten of double palma
 being filled in, only 11 out of the 12|- arrobas of single
 palma are added, so as to allow of an alteration in the
 character of the wine in case the blend should not turn out
 precisely as intended. The half-arroba of old Pedro Jimenez is
being drawn from a cask on the upper tier by means of a metal
syphon introduced into the bung-hole; after which the contents
of one of the casks of blended wine are stirred well together with
a wooden implement resembling a small oar. The amalgamation
completed,some of the wine is drawn off and taken to the sample-
ELExniNG Sherry i'or Shipment in Cdsens's Bodega.
.it.kt '.nA&i •iT''i''(''rfrt>i'hliirlii
     The Wines of Jerez—Blending Sherry for Shipment, 53

room,■where it is inspected, tasted, and compared •with the sample
of a pre'yious shipment; and then instructions are given either
for some alteration in the blend or for adding the deficient
arroba and a half of palma. The •wine being perfectly bright and
ready for shipment, the butts are filled up completely to the bung-
holes, and the wooden bungs driven tightly in so as to force any
leaJrage arising from •worm-holes in the casks to sho^w itself.
The butts have no^w to be marked and branded, after •which they
•will be sent off by the circular raU^way connecting the principal
bodegas of Jerez •with the Trocadero mole, near Cadiz.
    The blending completed, we proceeded to the principal bodega
to taste some of the more remarkable soleras of •the firm, thirteen
of which, finos of singular delicacy and fragrance, and comprising
an aggregate of 1,000 butts, were submitted to our inspection.
We were also shown some fine amontillados- of great age and
ripeness, and remarkable softness of flavour; olorosos of ample
roxmdness and aroma; •with quite a collection of pasados,
belonging to the first half of the present century, and including
the years 1820, 1826, 1832, and 1887, together with Pedro
Jimenez of almost fabulous antiquity—•wines with pedigrees
dating backwards for upwards of a hundred years, and the mby
brightness of whose tint, and rich liqueur-like flavour and con
sistency, time had enhanced rather than impaired. One of these
•wines, which was already so highly prized at the time of the
French invasion that its o-wner buried it underground, had
become highly concentrated, and was given to us to taste in drops.
   When dra^wing sherry from the butt in the bodega for the
purpose of tasting it an instrument termed a venencia is used.
This is occasionally made in a somewhat rude fashion altogether
of cane, but more generally consists of a long narrow silver
receptacle attached to the end of a whalebone stick nearly
three feet in length, and having a kind of handle at the oppo
site end to prevent it from accidentally slipping through the
bung-hole into the butt when being -wielded by an inexperienced
hand. The operation, although it seems exceedingly simple, is
one in fact requiring considerable skiU. The arumbador, having
54                     Facts about Sherry.

removed the bung from the butt, takes a wine-glass in bis left
                                                                        1
band and tbe venencia in bis rigbt,holding tbe latter with bis fore
finger and tbumb some few incbes from tbe handle. He then
lowers tbe end to wbieb tbe silver receptacle is attached gently into
tbe butt until it comes in contact with tbe wine,when be thrusts it
suddenly down,and as soon as it is filled raises it again through
tbe open bung-bole. Hext, by means of a rapid movement of
tbe tbumb and forefinger by which tbe venencia is grasped, and
a pecubar downward turn of tbe wrist of tbe same band, be
succeeds in deftly depositing tbe wine in a long trickling stream
into tbe glass which be holds in front of. him. Tbe operation
being commonly performed with much facibty seems remarkably
easy to accomplish, still tbe novice soon discovers that tbe
requisite sleigbt-of-band is only to be acquired after consider
able practice.
   Tbe estabbsbment of Messrs. Cosens and Co., in addition
to their three large bodegas containing some 4,500 butts
of wine, or less than half tbe firm's entire stock, comprises
several secondary cellars wherein different types of wines are
stored, as web as various bodegas in other parts of Jerez and at
Puerto de Santa Maria, whence, by way of supplement to their
vast Jerez trade, tbe firm ship between 1,200 and 1,300 butts of
sherry annually. Here, too, is their cooperage—and here, as
web as at Jerez, is tbe steaming apparatus for seasoning casks,
by means of which no fewer than 125 butts are steamed at one
time. "Wbbe exposed to its action tbe beads of tbe casks often
bulge outwards, and require to be forced into position again
by a special apparatus. This steaming, which goes on for as
long as eighteen hours, combined with a thorough seasoning
of tbe casks with water, renders any further seasoning with
wine unnecessary. Every vacant space in tbe neighbourhood of
tbe Jerez bodegas of tbe firm,including tbe long narrow avenues
 which separate one bodega from another,is crowded with pibes of
 these seasoned casks, tbe total number of which must be many
 thousands. One very noticeable feature is that the difierent stages
 of preparation through which ab these casks have passed,accord-
    The Wines of Jerez—Blending Sherry for Shipment. 55

ing to tlie class of wiiie they are destined to contain, are recorded
in every instance on the casks themselves.
    In the rear of the trio of Jerez bodegas is a large open court
shaded hy pictm-esque trees, and here the steaming of the casks
and various auxiliary operations are carried on. Here,too, the
hutts are repaired; here also are the smith's forge, the fnrnaces
for heating the branding-irons, and the movable steam-engine
for pumping up 'water for seasoning the casks from an adjacent
well. In this very complete establishment there are as many as
thirteen mains available in case of fire, a precaution which
originated during the time of the last Eevolution, when no one's
property in Jerez was safe.




              THE COOPEEAGE AT COSBXa AND CO.'S BODEGA.
'■•'"ri


          66                      Facts about Sherry.




                 VI.—The Assumed Unwholesomeness op Shebey.

          The Careful Eearing, which the Jerez Wines TJndergo—The Great Age they
              Attain—The Blending of Sherry an Artistic Operation—The Late Outcry
              Against the Wine—Highly-coloured Statements put forward and the
              motives which prompted them—Kefutation of the Attacks—Gj-psum in
              Burton Beer — Scientific Investigation of the Plastering of Wine in
               Prance—It is declared to he Innocuous—Presh Investigations on the
               part of the Preneh Government with a like result—The Sulphuring of
               Wines—Opinion of the Vienna Jury upon the point.

            IHAVE described tbe treatment ■wbicb the Jerez wines expe
          rience while progressing towards maturity. Of the amount
          of attention bestowed upon the finer varieties in the earlier
          stages of their growth few have any correct idea. A mother
          scarcely tends her offspring with greater watchfulness and care.
          Plenty of air, a certain amount of light, and an equable tempera
          ture are all considered essential to their proper development,
          which goes on slowly, and by no means with invariable results.
          Often, before being considered fit to replenish a solera, the wines
          will pass through no fewer than four criaderas, which are really
          so many soleras at an earlier stage.          During this period of
          probation their growth is most carefully watched.             Arrived
          at four or five years of age, the wines may be drunk, but in
          justice to them they ought to be bejpt until they have attained
          their twelfth year; for not until then can they be had in high
          perfection—that is to say, delicate, with ample vinosity; full,
           with an unctuous limpidity ; soft, yet richly aromatic, and at the
          same time perfectly free from that high pungent flavour which
          they acquire with length of years. The very finest growths will
          have had their 1 per cent, of spirit added to them when first
          drawn off the lees, and should they turn out grand wines they
          will rarely receive more; still, by the gradual evaporation of their
          watery particles, they will eventually develop as much as 34 per
          cent, of proof spirit, which will scarcely vary over a course of
          years. How long a robust Jerez wine wiU live, preserving within
          21ie Assumed TJnwholesomeness of Sherry.               57

it the various elements of vinous vitality, it is scarcely possible
to estimate. Wines the record of whose origin has been lost
vdth the generations they have outlived are to he found in
certain Jerez bodegas, sound and hale and seemingly with many
long years still before them. Wines of a like antiquity, with
the same amount of real vinous life in them, are not to he met
with in any other viticultural district of the world. But they
remain simply studies for fortunate connoissem-s, being not only
beyond the reach of the multitude, but even of the longest
purses. Consolation, however, is to be had in the fact that, by
reason of .the powerful pungent flavour which these centenarian
wines develop, the more juvenile growths are far better adapted
for ordinary consumption. Unquestionably, when met with at
its best, under conditions in which few people drink it in
England, because they lack the courage and common sense to
pay the due price for choice qualities, sherry has but few
superiors among the white wines of the world.
   Sherry as exported is generally a blended wine, composed—
unlike soleras of wines of one character, although of different
ages—in the majority of instances, of several distinct types
of wine. Eecent vintages have character imparted to them by
an admixture of some flne old variety, which again will have its
pungency subdued by a moderate addition of dulce, while a
touch of vino de color, if fine and old, will not only impart the
required tint but improve the flavour. Aguardiente, or colour
less spirit distilled fi-om the grape, is added in a less or greater
degree according to the character of the wine, which now under
goes the process of fining with the white of eggs and fuller's
earth. "When perfectly clean and bright it is drawn off into
fresh casks, which if used for the first time will have undergone
a thorough steaming on leaving the cooperage. Afterwards they
will remain filled with hard water for the space of three months
then be again steamed, and subsequently be filled up with
common wine for another three months, when they are con
sidered thoroughly seasoned. The blending of sherry is a most
delicate operation. It is not sufficient to be a good judge of
58                     Facts about Sherry.

wine and the possessor of an excellent stock to become a success
ful shipper; it is requisite to have the taste and judgment to
blend your wines artistically. A writer on the subject has aptly
remarked that you may give a score of men the requisite
materials, but only one of them will be able to produce a picture
and so it is with reference to the more delicately blended types
of sherry. The endless Varieties of this wine to be found jn a
well-stocked bodega may be compared to so many musical notes
which, in proportion to the skill with which they are arranged,
conduce to a harmonious and successful result.
    Every one will remember the late outcry raised against sherry,
chiefly on the part of testimonial-purveying M.Ds. always
ready to court publicity by rushing into print rmder the pretence
of enlightening an unintelligent pubHc.    It was paraded in the
papers, as though it were a new discovery, that gypsum was
used when making the wine, and the inference was drawn that
sherry is necessarily prejudicial to health. Among other highly-
coloured statements was one, made with an air of authority, to
the effect that the grapes for each butt of shei-ry invariably had
from 30 to 401bs. of gypsum thrown over them prior to their
being trodden and pressed, the main effect of which was tO'
transform the tartar of the must into sulphate of potash, an
aperient salt 3 to 141bs. of which were stated to be contained in
every butt of this popular wine.
     Tn common candour the author of this incredible misrepre
sentation ought not to have withheld from the public his quali
fications to speak so confidently on the subject. He should
have told them that he had visited Jerez under the auspices of
certain shipping houses to whom he offered, if not to repeat the
miracle of Cana, at any rate to produce amontillado by purely
chemical agency—that he was provided with considerable funds
for the purchase of scientific instruments which he was incompe
tent to use, and that he resided at Jerez in style for a period of
three months at the expense of his principal patron, during
which time he lost him half his vineyard's produce through the
so-called amontillado which he professed to fabricate turning out
         Tlie A ssumed TJnwholesomeness of Sherry.              59>

sucli "vile stuff tliat it could ouly te employed for rinsing casks
■witk, •wkile a furtker expeiiment wliicli ke made in tke kodega of
a second skipper resulted in transforming tke rvine into Tinegar.
    Tke puklic, knowing notking of tke motive wkick prompted
tkese attacks upon skerry, naturally grew alarmed, and for a
time tke sukject formed a common topic of conversation at all
dinner-takles, wkere by tke lady at your side you found skerry
generally declined witk tkanks. Middle-aged gentlemen, too,
perfectly kale and kearty on tkeir daily pint of skerry, fancied
tkat perkaps for tkem a day of reckoning migkt ke near. Tke
alarm, kowever, soon subsided, and people returned to tkeir old
love; yet it is none tke less desirakle tkat tke trutk of tke
matter skould ke made known, and tke pukkc mind disakused of
any latent fears upon tke sukject.
    During my sojourn at Jerez Ipaid particular attention to
tkis plastering question, saw tke gypsum applied in almost a
kundred instances, and questioned tke capatazes in scores of
vineyards. Imay state as witkin my own knowledge tkat gypsum
is by no means invariably used in tke vinification of skerry,
some tkousands of butts kaving been made during tke past
and former years at Jerez witkout a particle of tkis substance.
Ikave, moreover, ascertained by personal observation tkat wken
it is employed only a small quantity—a few pounds per butt of
108 gallons—is used. Dndoubtedly gypsum is applied in tke
 great majority of instances; stiUIcan confidently assert tkat
61bs. per butt may be regarded as tke extreme quantity used in
dry seasons, and tkat double tkis quantity, or perkaps ratker
more, would be tke average amount employed in years wken great
dampness prevails. For tke sake of argument, kowever,I will
assume tke extreme quantity ever asserted as being employed to
 kave been used, and will skew, not by pseudo-scientific state
ments, but on evidence recorded in text-books and accepted by
savants of tke kigkest standing, tkat its employment is perfectly
harmless.
    Tke detractors of skeny can scarcely be aware tkat tke
 superiority of Burton bitter beer is owing to tke large amount
 60                    Facts about Sherry.

 of gypsTim contained in the water of the Trent, and that quite
 as much of this innocuous substance enters into a pint and
 a-half of that excellent beverage as into any bottle of sherry in
 existence. In one respect gypsum, acts, with regard to the
 fermentation of beer, precisely in the same way as it acts with
 reference to that of wine—^that is to say, it checks over-activity
 by counteracting the influence of the excess of nitrogenous
 matter present alike in wort and must,and which troubles bitter-
 beer brewers in the form of gluten and the Jei-ez wine-growers
 in the shape of albumen. So important an element, indeed, is
 gypsum in the brewing of beer that many Scotch and other
 brewers add it in considerable quantities to the water which
 they employ.
      hTot merely is gypsum largely used by brewers, but all the
 wine-growers of the South of Prance have recourse to it. Some
 years ago proceedings were taken against the latter, under the
pretence that the use of gypsum constituted an adulteration,and
the matter eventually came on appeal before the tribunal of
Montpellier, which appointed three distinguished French
chemists, MM. Chancel, Berard, and Cauvy, who had mado
wine their especial study, to investigate and report upon the
subject. Singularly enough,these gentlemen made their experi
ments upon wine containing as nearly as possible the same
proportion of gypsum as according to the most extravagant
estimate enters into a butt of sherry—namely, 401bs. to the
108 gallons. The wines they analysed had been plastered to the
extent of 40 grammes per litre, which is at the rate of almost
20,000 grammes, or 401bs., to the 484 litres comprised in the
108 gallons which a butt of sherry contains.                   .
   The analyses of these wines showed that the sample to which
ordinary plaster had been applied contained 1*240 grammes of
sulphate of potash per litre, and that another sample of wine
made with prepared plaster contained 1-828 grammes of sulphate
of potash per litre, which gave in the first instance less than
600 grammes, or under IJlb., and in the second less than
900 grammes, or under 21bs., in the 108 gallons, which is very
          The Assumed TJmoholesomeness of Sherry.             61

 different from the 141bs. result put forward by individuals wbo,
even if competent,could never bave taken tbe trouble to perform
an analysis for themselves.
    Tbe French chemists reported—first, that plastered wine
contains no new mineral substance, implying that none of tbe
plaster remained in tbe wine in solution; secondly, that tbe
amount of plaster—40 grammes to tbe btre, equivalent to 401bs,
per butt—could bave no baimful result as it became completely
transformed, and that tbe only objection that could be urged
against sulphate of potash was that it is slightly aperient,as are
also tbe tartrates themselves upon which tbe gypsum acts.
Brillat-Savarin bad a fantastical objection to grapes,and used to
say that be did not care to take bis wine in piUs. Here tbe
process is reversed, and tbe piUs are taken in tbe wine.
    Guided by tbe scientific evidence, tbe tribunal of MontpeUier
decided that tbe employment of gypsum dm-ing vinification
could not be regarded as an adulteration, and, further, that it
was not injurious to health.
    Hot entirely satisfied with tbe result, tbe French Govern
ment took tbe matter up, ostensibly in tbe interest of tbe army
and navy, and appointed a scientific commission still further to
investigate tbe subject. This commission eventually decided
that plastered wines containing sulphate of potash in no larger
quantity than at tbe rate of 4 grammes per litre, which is more
than double tbe quantity found in tbe samples analysed by tbe
French chemists, might be safely admitted to consumption in tbe
army and navy, and to-day fully two-thirds of all tbe wine made
in France is made by tbe aid of plaster.
    Tbe assumed sulphuring that sbeny undergoes is limited, so
far as tbe better-class'wine is concerned,to tbe preliminary puri
fication of the casks for containing tbe mosto by burning a
sulphur match inside them, according to a practice prevalent all
over tbe world. Occasionally common Jerez wines are sidpbured,
just as all tbe sweeter Sauternes are—in tbe latter case to check
tbe fermentation and prevent all tbe sugar turning into alcohol.
This question of sulpbuiing wines was fuUy discussed by the
                                                        s
62                   Facts about Sherry.

scientific members of the TviQe jury at the Vienna Exhibition mth
reference to some magnificent"Auslesen" from the Tineyards of
the Eheingau exhibited by Hen* Wilhelmj (priced from 15s. to
45s. per bottle), -which had had their fermentation checked by
sulphur. The jury agreed -with the opinion expressed by chemists
of repute that no harm can result from the practice provided the
sulphuric acid is afterwards got rid of, as it easily can he, by
proper tapping. It -would appear, therefore,from the investiga
tions of competent scientific authorities, that the outcry raised
against sherry -was an utterly baseless one.




           A JEEEZ AEmSIBADOB HAKKLIH-G THE VBNENOIA.
     Tlie Bodegas in the old Moorish Quarter of Jerez. 63


Vn.—The Bodegas in the old Moorish Qhaetee of Jerez.
A Great Jerez Shipping Establishment—The Offices, Press-house, and Cooper
    age—The Stahles, the Shipping Bodega, and the Sample-rooms—Maturing
    of the Commoner Wines—^The Bodega de la Union and its Annexes
    Huge Tuns known as Los Apostoles — The Parte Arroyo and Seuor
    Gonzalez' Blind Bargain — The Constancia Bodega and the Eomano
    Wine—The Bodega de los Ciegos and the A.B. Wine—The Bodega Vieja
    and Seuor Gonzalez'"Piano"— The Bodega de la Bosa and the Methusalem,
    Noah, and La Reyna Wines—The Bodega Reservada, with its Napoleon
    III., Muscatel, and Fragrant Tio Pepe Wines—The Blending Cellar, Cask-
    steaming Apparatus, and Distillery—Railway Incline—Other Bodegas of
    the Firm at Puerto de Santa Maria, San Lucar, Seville, and Montilla
    Senor Domecq's Bodegas—Steaming and Gauging the Casks—The Cooper
    age—-Fine Amontillado and Oloroso—The Famous Napoleon Wine, and its
    Christening hy Marshal Soult—Other Remarkable Wines—Seuor Domecq's
    Criaderas—The Bodegas of Vergara, Robertson, and Co.—^Visit paid to
    them hy Ferdinand VII.—Superior Wines of the old Jerezano Type.

    During tlie year 1873 there vrere exported from Jerez alone
no fewer than 68,500 butts, or nearly 7-| millions of ftallons, of
sherry. "While about seven-eighths of this large quantity of
wine went to the United Kingdom and the colonies, a like pro
portion came from the bodegas of about twenty Jerez firms.
The establishment of one of the principal of these,that of Messrs.
 Cosens and Co., I have, already described, and I now propose
 speaking of the remaining ones, indicating in a measure the
 specialities for which each is remarkable.
     Borty years ago a new firm ofsherry shippers established them
 selves at Jerez in a very modest way, for their first year s ship
 ments comprised merely ten butts of wine. During 1878,however,
 their shipments had risen to 10,000 butts, and to-day the firm
 of Gonzalez, Byass, and Co. are the owners of the largest estab
 lishment in all Jerez, where colossal establishments are the rule.
    Descending a flight of steps leading from the terraced
 Alameda vieja, one finds oneself in front of a pillared gateway
 giving access to the premises of the firm in question, which
 cover an area of sixteen acres, and comprise, in addition to
64                    Facts about Sherry.

an open press-house with numerous lagares, nearly a score of
bodegas, a distillery, an admirably-organised cooperage, and
various complementary workshops, together with steam-power
and all the requisite mechanical appliances, including even a
railway siding; so that here the processes of cask-making as
well as wine-making, and the rearing, blending, and shipping of
wines, may be followed from beginning to end, and a complete
idea gained of what a great sherry shipper's establishment is like.
Immediately inside the courtyard are the ofSces, under the arcade
of which some half-dozen wine - brokers, with the necks of
numerous sample bottles peeping from their side-pockets, are
waiting an audience, while a group of rustic mayetos, who have
sold their vintages to the firm, are t3.king their turn at the
cashier's desk to be paid. Passing through the clerks' ofSce,
partitioned off into numerous little cabinets, we enter the sanctum
of the firm, the walls of which are hung with portraits of past
and present partners, and paintings, plans, and maps, more or
less relating to the production of a wine which has raised an
Andalusian village almost to the rank of a city. The senior
partner is engaged in testing samples brought by a wine-broker,
and, this httle operation over, he courteously volunteers to con
duct us through the vast estabhshment of which he is the head.
We pass the porter's house, whereby is a charming flower-walk,
skirted by palms and orange-trees, and bordered on the one side
by a trellised arcade overgrown with vines. Hereabouts is a
huge water-tank supplied from a deep well,the water of which is
specially used for seasoning the casks. Passing the great square
and circular bodegas, the garden and the fountain, the stables
and the wheelwright's shop, the railway siding and the steep
tramway incline, we make our way to the press-house, where
mules keep arriving with baskets of grapes, which, after being
weighed in a primitive fashion by the aid of a beam supported on
a couple of men's shoulders, are thrown into one or other of the
seven lagares and trodden and pressed. A few paces off is the
store-place for American oak staves, of which the casks are made,
and which remain stacked up here in huge pUes until they have
become thoroughly seasoned, while beside them lie innumerable
     The Bodegas in the old Mooonsh Quarter of Jerez. 65

long bundles of osier, for making tbe wooden boops. The staves
eome in shiploads from New York, and Messrs. Gonzalez have a
large depot for them at Puei-to Eeal, fifteen mUes distant from
Jerez on the Cadiz line of railway. In a neighbouring shed a
sawmill is at work cutting these staves to precise lengths; after
which they are sent in truck-loads up a steep incline to the
cooperage, the traction being accomplished by steam-power
obtained from an adjacent engine, which is principally employed
in pumping water into the reservoir already mentioned.
    The cooperage occupies a vast open space surrounded on all
sides by a broad colonnade, where scores of coopers are engaged
trimming and planing the staves into shape with quaint-looking
tools, which they use with singular skill and certitude. This
work is principally accomplished by men sitting astride slanting
benches, the lower ends of which grasp the staves, while the men
trim and plane them, both their hands being disengaged for this
purpose. After the sides, where the staves join together, have
been carefully adjusted, and every little hole and crevice has been
plugged with pieces of eane, a cooper proceeds to put the casks
together, the staves being arranged so as to be perfectly close at
the top and spread out at the bottom. Some iron hoops being
temporarily wound round them to hold them firmly together,the
staves are so placed as to encompass a blazing fire, imder the
influence of which they are bent; and the cask being thus
formed, it is kept in shape by permanent iron hoops. The
charred wood is now scraped from the inside of each butt, which
next has its bottom and top inserted, the edges of its staves
bevelled, and finally its bung-hole drilled. The cask is now
ready for being steamed, and at Messrs. Gonzalez' this very
essential process is accomplished by machinery, which causes the
casks to revolve in an eccentric circle by the aid of steam-power.
The butts subsequently remain fiUed with water for three months,
and then with wine for a hke period, after which they are branded,
and are ready for use.
    On our way to the bodegas we glance at the stables, but the
score of mules and half-a-dozen horses are all out at work.
Two superannuated animals are the only occupants—a white
 66                    Facts about Sherry.

 horse,■whoselarge head and thick arched neck indicated the ancient
Andalusian breed, and a dropsical old donkey who is contentedly
munching his chopped straw. Ascending an adjacent flight of
steps, we find ourselves in an annexe of the vast extraction
bodega, where wines destined for shipment are kept. The
annexe is used for the washing of old casks by rocking them
backwards and forwards ■with a couple of long chains inside, after
they have been filled with water. Leaving this department we
enter the many-aisled shipping bodega, containing some 5,000
butts of wine of aU descriptions, which are being got ready for
shipment as required. On one side a gang of men are engaged
in raising casks to the third or upper tier, by means of an im
provised tramway incline. In another aisle some half-dozen
cellarmen are making up five-and-twenty butts of Eoyal Pale,
while at the north-west side of the building others are emptying
casks of ordinary ■wine into a receptacle communicating by pipes
■with the vats in the blending cellar below, whence butts of newly-
blended ■wine keep arri^ving by means of a powerful steam-lift at
the rate of a score in as many minutes. As we leave this bodega
on our left hand is a gallery containing thirteen enormous tuns
of vino dulce, four of them holding no less than thirty-two butts,
or nearly 3,500 gallons each. To the right we have the shippmg
ofSce, with the testing and the shipping samples rooms, the latter
containing some thousands of bottles, on each of which is speci
fied the mark, price, and destination of the ■wine shipped, the
date of its leaving the bodega, and the name of the vessel it was
despatched by.
    After traversing a corner of the shipping cellar we enter
another annexe of that gigantic bodega. This is a long building,
■with a galvanised iron roof attracting the heat, and thereby
helping to mature the commoner class of wines stored beneath
it, which ordinarily remain here for three or four months.
iJIumerous apertures in the sides of the building allow a full
current of air to sweep through it, causing an evaporation of
2 per cent, during the three months, or double what it would be
in any ordinary bodega. In front of this annexe is a laige
        The Union Bodega op Messes. Gonzalez, Byass, and Co.
r   ■
     Tlie Bodegas in the old Moorish Quarter of Jerez. 67

circular structure -witli a sloping metal roof devoted to tte same
object and holding some five or six bundred butts of wine. The
next building we visit is the Bodega de la Union,the contents of
which continually vary, and where at present wines of various
descriptions—dry, sweet, and "color"—with mosto of last year
from the Eomano and A.B. vineyards, are stored. To the left is
the Salon annexe, containing about 300 butts of mosto vintaged
quite recently,while to the right is another annexe,known as Los
Apostoles, and so named from twelve huge casks containing pale,
gold, and amber-coloured sherries, fino, amontillado, oloroso,
Pedro Jimenez, and muscatel. These casks hold 1,420 gallons
each, and are ranged in rows of six on either side of a gigantic
tun of 3,500 gallons, carved over with bunches of grapes and
vine-leaves, evidently of German origin, and recalling those
 famous examples of the cooper's art occasionally met with in the
 mediaeval cellars of the Fatherland. Although of fine character,
 none of the wine in these monster receptacles equals in interest
 that contained in some venerable butts, perfectly black with age,
 which, ranged in tiers in a corner of the same cellar, are known
 as the Parte Arroyo, after a widow of that name, from whom
 they were purchased many years ago. She was bent on retiring
 from business, and demanded <£10,000 in gold for the contents
 of her cellar, which, however, she resolutely refused to open for
 inspection until she had the money in hand. Senor Gonzalez
 boldly accepted this blind bargain,paid the price, and received the
 key of the bodega,which was found to contain one hundred butts
 of very fine old wine, worth far more than the price demanded,
       a, comparatively small number of these butts now remain.
     Crossing the road running in front of the Union Bodega we
  enter another of these light and lofty wine-stores with rows of
  portly butts ranged in seemingly endless succession, known as
  the Constancia, where the fine old wines from the Eomano
  vineyard, purchased from the family of this name, are stored in
  soleras of four tiers. The Eomano is a full-bodied wine, soft in
  flavour and invariably deep in colour, arising partly from the
  admixture of Pedro Jimenez grapes, and partly because none
  68                    Facts about' Sherry.

  of the gi-apes of this vineyard are picked until late in the season,
  in order that they may be thoroughly matm-ed. Even then they
  are exposed to the srm for a longer time than is customary with
 grapes from other viaeyards. A thousand butts of this wine, its
 average strength indicating 36 deg. of proof spirit, are stored
 here unmixed with any other vintage. Erom the Constancia
 bodega we passed through a narrow triangular cotu-tyard into
 the Bodega de los Ciegos, holding some 1,200 biitts of very fine
 wine. One sample that we tasted was pale but remarkably
 brilliant in colour, and had something of the character of man-
 zanilla about it. The wine from the A. B. vineyard, the soleras
 of which are kept here, was equally pale and bright. It had,
 moreover, a fine, fresh, delicate flavour,leaving behind it a shght
 and pleasant bitter-ahnond taste, in addition to which it exhaled
 a peculiarly rich aroma.
    In the adjoining Bodega vieja, the original cellar of the firm
(a comparatively sijiall structure with a low blackened roof), we
 ran through the scales of what Senor Gonzalez terms his"piano,"
 meaning by this twenty-one selected butts of wine produced in
a vineyard owned by Senor Eomero Valdespino. Eor upwards
of twenty years the firm have purchased the entire produce of
this vineyard, the mosto of which is remarkably rich and sweet,
and yields a wine of much distinction. In 1853 Senor Gonzalez
commenced to set aside a butt of this wine after it was a certain
number of years old, a practice continued every year up to the
present time. He expresses himself confident that in every
instance the wine has had less than 1 per cent, of spirit added to
it; and yet when tested at five years old it showed 27 deg. of ''
proof spirit, at ten years 28 deg., at fifteen years 30 deg., at
twenty years 33 deg., and at twenty-five years 36 deg. This
gradual increase of its alcoholic strength can only have arisen
from the conversion of its saccharine into sj)irit, combined with
the evaporation of its watery parts, and the consequent concen
tration of the wine. Tasting the samples, wefound the youngest
delicate, and of a certain freshness of flavour which gradually
became more tonical as the wines advanced in years until about
      Hie Bodegas in the old Moorish Quarter of Jerez. 69-

half-way up the scale, when they began to reveal a bitter taste,
although still retaining a peculiar softness. The gradations of
coloui- and flavoui* were perfect, and very minute. "With every
year of increasing age the light tint of the wine slightly darkened,
just as its flavour grew the merest trifle more pronounced.
    Perhaps the most curious wines in Senor Gonzalez' collection
 are some dating from 1809 down to comparatively recent years,
stored in the Bodega de la Eosa. Here we tasted some remark
ably fine wine from a solera originated in 1847, and then some
very old wine known as Methusalem, of whose great age there is
no record. It is exceedingly dark in colour and pungent and
spirituous in flavom', as becomes a wine of such archaic origin.
Its neighboui', Noah, not boasting the same length of years,
could be partaken of mth less hesitation, although a still rich
powerful wine. We next tried some fine old-fashioned East
India sherry which had received a small addition of dulce and
vino de color, and had long since been its voyage to India and
back. A captivating wine called La Eeyna, of a bright deep
topaz tint,had great body,and was deliciously round and mellow;
while a wine of 1828 proved too dry to be palatable, and, like
most of the older vintages, was only used, we were told, for
blending. Passing from the Bodega de la Eosa into the Bodega
Eeservada—the last of the series—we were invited to taste the
favourite wine of a former partner in the firm,and were surprised
to find that, although of the juvenile age of two-and-thiriy years,
it had acquired a peculiarly disagreeable flavour too much like
that of tar. Some remarkable wine,named after ISTapoleon III.,
and believed to be fully a century old, was next offered to us,and
proved to be one of those venerable concentrated wines whose
powerful flavour almost takes away the breath. It had passed
through the amontillado and oloroso stages, and had now got
into what is known as the old sherry type—that is to say,it was
very deep in colour, full and pungent to the taste, and could
boast of a powerful aroma. After these excessively dry wines
we essayed some muscatel from the Ducha vineyard. At five
years old the wine was very soft and luscious; at eight years it
70                   Facts about Sherry.
                                                                     1
was still very sweet, but more vinous and darker in colour;
while at fifteen years much of its sweetness had gone, and its
tint was almost black. Some muscatelfrom Romano sixty years
of age had consumed the greater part of its saccharine, and
become a perfect liqueur. After tasting the muscatel a glass of
light Jerez wine, known as Tio Pepe, seven years old, and con
taining only 25 deg. of proof spirit, proved agreeably refreshing.
This wine has the bouquet and much of the fiavour, including
 all the delicacy, of the rarer growths of the Rhine, coupled with
that peculiar soft almond taste which these latter wines not
unfi'equently develop.
     Leaving the half-dozen remaining bodegas unvisited, we now
direct our steps to the blending cellar, beneath the prolonged
colonnade, which, from its succession of columns and vast
length—600 feet—is jocularly known as the Rue de Rivoli. At
one end of it scores of casks are being steamed by machinery,
while along it, and beneath the adjacent trees, thousands of
butts,undergoing the necessary seasoning with water, are stacked
in tiers. Other casks imder the colonnade are seasoning with
common wine, and at its farther end some himdred butts of
prensa—wine from the final pressing of the grapes are waiting
their turn to be distilled into spirit. A powerful hydraulic press
has been erected for squeezing the lees of the wine perfectly
dry, also for the purpose of distillation. In the blending cellar,
butts of common wine are being rapidly filled from the taps of
half-a-dozen of the seventeen large blending vats containing
 their 120 butts; or more slowly, by means of jars, when a
 mixture of several varieties has to be made. In the adjoining
 distillery a large still and rectifying apparatus are in fu
 operation, but the fire of the huge iron caldron in which arrope
 is boiled for vino de color is unkindled. All that now remams
 for us to visit is the steep railway incline, down which butts o
 wine are being whirled on trucks for conveyance by the tram in
 waiting below, which will convey them to the Trocadero mo e,
 whence they will be shipped to England and elsewhere.
     Messrs. Gonzalez, who are at the same time growers, rearers,
                       fi
Baimvav Imcmnh at the Establishment of Gonzalez and Co,
Sii'jJtfi'i''
     Tlie Bodegas in the old Moorish Quarter of Jerez. 71

and shippers of sherry, have as many as 600 people at work. In
addition to the bodegas of the head establishment, the aban
doned convent of San Domingo at Jerez has been turned by
them into a bodega for the storing of wines from their own
vineyards, which,kept apai-t from other vintages, are shipped to
England under their distinctive names. The firm further possess
bodegas at Puerto de Santa Maria,San Lucar,Seville,and Montilla.
Hot only have they agencies all over Europe, but in South
America, British Horth America, and the United States. Their
stock comprises 18,000 butts, or nearly two millions of gallons
of wine, and their Jerez establishment is certainly one of the
greatest in the world.
   Situated nigh to the establishment of Gonzalez, Byass,
and Co., in the old Moorish quarter of the sherry capital, and
crowning a corresponding height to that from which the ancient
Alcazar, in all the pride of fresh whitewash, glares down upon
the town, are the capacious bodegas of Senor Domecq. Passing
through the usual green gateway and paved courtyard, the low
arcade of which is closely stacked with cask-staves, a narrow
passage conducts the visitor to the escritorio and the rooms,
handsomely decorated with encaustic tiles, which are devoted to
brokers' and shipping samples. The latter contain some
thousands of imiform bottles, comprising samples of all the wine
shipped by the house for several years back, duly dated and
classified. Behind is a small floral parterre, succeeded by an
avenue of acacia and orange trees, with bodegas ranged along
either side, and having at the farther end a gateway crowned by
a statue of Bacchus, cup and thyrsus in hand, astride the con
ventional wine-cask. Beyond this gateway and extending
down the slope of the hill is a beautiful garden, the view from
which over the neighbouring plain is bounded by a long sweep
of vine-clad slopes and undulating country.
    The first bodega we enter is the one where wines are prepared
for shipment—a vast building of six aisles, between 500 and 600
feet long, 120 feet broad, and lofty in proportion, and in which
upwards of 3,500 butts of wine are stored ready for exportation.
 72                    Facts ahout Sheny.

Beyond rises tlie wide,light, and airy Bodega de la Luz,built on a
steep slope, and having three tiers of vaults, used chiefly as sjjirit-
stores, at the farther end. Close at hand, and nigh to where
the several processes of cleansing, steaming, and watering the
casks are being carried on,some men are determining the capacity
of the newly-made butts, which, as Senor Domecq does not
approve of the gauging system, is done by filling the casks with
water. Should a butt be found to contain even a gallon more
than its proper quantity, it is allowed to pass, but the smallest
deficiency leads to the cask being altered by removing the hoops
and replacing a particular stave by a slightly larger one. Bound
three sides of the adjoining cooperage runs an arcade, under the
shade of which scores of men are busy as bees trimming,placing,
and plugging the staves, hammering the iron hoops into form
and punching holes in them, and adroitly putting the portly
butts together.
    Senor Domecq's finest wines are stored in a bodega facing
his shipping cellar. Among the numerous samples we here tasted
was some fine amontillado which had been on a solera for five-
and-twenty years, and had acquired an exceedingly dry and
highly tonical flavour. A wine from the Macharnudo vineyard,
fifty years of age, and of the robust oloroso type,was remarkable
for body and roundness. Another wine, three-quarters of a
century old, proved excessively pungent; but we were assured
that, after being in bottle for about five years, it would become
as soft as oil. The wine on which Senor Domecc| most prides
himself is one belonging to a solera dating back to 1730—
nearly a century and a-half ago—of which only eight of the
original twenty-five casks remain. These butts are very rarely
drawn from, stiU their contents gradually decrease through
evaporation, and from time to time some very fine old wine has
to be added to them. The liquid proved to be a veritable essence,
very deep in colour, of an oleaginous-hke fulness, and a pun
gency of flavour that asserted itself the instant the wine touched
the lips. The alcoholic strength of this venerable wine has been
periodically tested, and for a considerable period has remained
' 'fe-'

w




              ■ ,S *'        '
          ^             i,



          i-M-' ■
                                 I   V ,,' -T' ,•(   .




                                                         ■ ''■''; V'' vf^
                                  ■
                                  )lll




SeiVob Domecq's Napoleon 'Wine.
     Tlie Bodegas in the old Moorish Quarter of Jerez. 73

stationary at 43 degrees of proof spirit. During recent years
only tliree quarter-casks of it kave been sold—one to tbe
late Duke of Hamilton, another to a retired wine-mercbant
named Hisbet, who paid .£1,000 for it, or at tbe rate of £6 6s.
per bottle in loco—tbe bigbest price paid for a mne on record,
being 25 per cent, more tban was obtained a few years ago for
tbe famous Cbateau Lafite of tbe grand Comet vintage of
1811—and a tbird to tbe late Emperor of tbe Erencb, wbose
reason for securing some of tbe wine was possibly because
it was named after Napoleon I. Wben Marshal Soult was
at Jerez in 1808 be seems to have visited tbe Domecq bodega,
and after tasting tbe most ancient wine stored there, out of
compbment to it wrote tbe word "Napoleon" on tbe bead of
tbe cask with a piece of chalk. Tbe marshal's caligrapby was
of tbe worst, still tbe inscription was preserved for many years
as a souvenir of bis visit, and tbe wine has ever since been known
by tbe name be gave to it. Wben tbe great emperor's star
paled, other casks of tbe same wine were christened.Wellington,
Nelson, Pitt, and Pox. Two other casks subsequently bad tbe
names of former partners in tbe bouse of Domecq and Co.
bestowed upon them,one being called Euskin, after tbe father of
tbe author of Modern Painters. A butt of very fine old sweet wine
preserved in tbe same boclega enjoys tbe honour of being called,
after tbe Finest Gentleman in Europe—Georgius Quartus Eex.
   Senor Domecq prides himself on bis criaderas, which are
distributed over a couple of bodegas; tbe first a square lofty
building of eight aisles, situated immediately beyond tbe solera
bodega, and capable of holding 2,500 butts ; while tbe second,
which has room for a couple of thousand casks, is detached from
tbe rest of tbe establishment. Tbe nursing system is here in full
operation, tbe wines stored passing through as many as fom:
criaderas before going to a solera, and remaining invai-iably a
year or more in each. Some of tbe wine in these nurseries
bad been vintaged as recently as 1872, but tbe larger
portion was five and six years old. In order that tbe wine used
to replenish a solera may be of equal quality, it is carefully
74                    Facts about Sherry.

blended beforehand, ten gallons being taken from one cask and
ten from another, and so on through the entire criadera.
     At the extremity of the old Moorish quarter of Jerez are
the bodegas of Messrs. Vergara, Robertson, and Co., originally
in the occupation of the late Senor Domecq. Passing through
a small courtyard, one enters the principal cellar, a lofty, mde,
and "well-proportioned structure—at one time the largest that
existed in Jerez—-with the unusual appurtenance of a gallery at
the farther end, erected for the accommodation of Ferdinand
VP!., father of the ex-Queen Isabella, when he honoured this
bodega "with a visit and tasted its rare old -rintages. Messrs.
Vergara and Co. are famous for wines of the old Jerezano type
—superior rayas of rich flavour, ample body, and perfect
rotundity. In connection with the Vergara bodegas is an
extensive cooperage, and arcades crowded to the roof with new
casks passing through one or other of the usual seasoning
processes.




        r




      JEEEZ COOPEES AT WOEK AT GONZAEEZ AKD CO.'S COOPEEAGE.
1

                                                 ULi^.juiuyu.. duuium. ti




    Tower and Railway at Senor Misa's^Bodegas.
                    Some other Jerez Bodegas.                         75



              Vm.—Some Othee Jeeez Bodegas.

The Establishment of Seuor Misa, Conde de Bayona, its Array of Bodegas and
    Monumental Tower—Its more remarkable Soleras—Garvey and Co.'s
    Monster Bodega—Their Soleras of Choice Amontillados—The Old Brown
    Sherry of the Prince of Wales—^Youthful and Matured Montilla Wines—
    The Ancient Jerez House of Haurie—^Its Blended Wines, Amontillados,
    and Olorosos—Don Diego de Agreda's Choice Soleras—His Mauresque
    House and Handsome Garden—Senor Julian Pemartin's Amontillados,
    Vinos de Pasto, and Jerezano Wines—The Venerable Soleras of Seuor
    Josd Peinartin—Mr. B. Davies's Bodega—His San Lucar and Madeira
    Vineyards—His Delicate Amontillados and Fragrant Finos and Manzanillas
    —Mr.J. C. Gordon's Olorosos,Potent Brown Sherry, and High-class Finos
    —Seuor J. J. Vegas's Choice and Eobust Eayas—Wisdom and Warters
    Montilla Finos—Their Emperador and Sweet Pedro Jimenez—^Mr. E.
    Ivison's Wines of the old Jerezano Type—His Mode of Developing the
    Seville Wines—Webber and Co.'s Finos—Mackenzie and Co.'s Manza
    nillas, Amontillados, and Centenarian Olorosos—Heyward and Wilson's
    Finos and Manzanillas, their Montilla and old Jerezano Wines—Matthie-
    sen and Furlong's Bodegas in the Jesuit Chmxh and Convent—^Their
    Vineyard in the CuartiUos and its Fine Wine—Seuor Ysasi's Finos and
    Amontillados—Cramp and Suter's Fino Soleras and Eare Old Wines—
    The Jerez Almaeenistas and the Establishment of Seuor Sanchez Eomate.

    On arriving at Jerez by railway, among tlie first objects tbat
attract one's attention is a lofty square tower, rising above an
extensive range of carefully-ordered buildings, situate within a
few hundred yards of the station. These are the premises
of Senor M. Misa, Conde de Bayona, and one of the
magnates of the sherry metropolis. In this striking assem
blage of bodegas as many as 18,000 butts of wine are Stored,
and connected with them are the usual cooperage, cai'penters'
and smiths' shops, departments for steaming and seasoning
casks, and all the necessary adjuncts to a shipping establishment
on a vast scale. On our visit we passed through the different
offices, comprising the escritorio or counting-house, the private
room of the principal of the firm,the apartment in which brokers
who come to offer wines are received, and the sample-room in
which the wines in question are tasted,together with the shipping
 76                     Facts about Sherry.

 sample room, containing some 11,000 samples of wine exported
 during tlie past five years. The labels on all tbe bottles
 indicate alike tbe number of tbe invoice, tbe quantity of casks
 shipped, witb tbe date of shipment, and tbe name of tbe
 port to which and of tbe party to whom they were sbipj)ed. Tbe
 advantage of this system is that when a wine-mercbant desires
 to repeat an order reference has merely to be made to tbe invoice,
 which indicates tbe precise blend of tbe wine, and to tbe sample
 which has been retained, enabling any alteration that is found
 necessary to be readily made.
   We first inspect tbe lofty six-aisled Bodega vieja, containing
3,000 butts of wine in soleras, comprising finos, amontillados,
and olorosos. Two thousand of these are finos ranging from 5
to 40 years of age, and passing through four successive
stages, while tbe amontiUados and olorosos pass through three,
thus enabling the older soleras to be replenished with com
parative facility, and insuring a uniform quality of wine. The
most noticeable among these soleras are what is termed the 150
fine and the 1/30 gogolio, both very superior wines, bio aguar
diente is added to these soleras, the average alcoholic strength
of which ranges no higher than from 27 to 28 deg. of proof spirit.
A different system is followed with the so-called Royal solera,
a fine selected and established in 1853 from several thousand
butts of dos palmas of the 1846 vintage. This solera, which is
of the highest character, is only replenished by dos palmas of
vintages folly ten years old. Its bouquet, softness, and delicacy
are almost unrivalled, in addition to which its alcoholic strength
indicates only 25| deg. of proof spirit. An adjoining smaller
bodega, holding 800 butts, contains some of the rarer soleras of
the house, purchased five-and-forty years ago, and of acknow
ledged antiquity even at that epoch. In this bodega are
installed the superb oloroso solera, the non, plus ultra of 1815,
the famous amontillado of 1820, and ,the superior palo cortado
of 1831, with several other wines in the old Jerezano style of
the vintages of 1824, 1843, and 1846. This and other cellars of
the house contain 1,600 butts of oloroso soleras, ranging from
                                                         r: ■   ■
                                                                '
DRAWINTS AVlNE WITH A SVPIION' FROM THE UpPRR 0a'H\8 IX BEXOH MtSA'h B0DE({A 1>R   EXTPACCIOX.
I
                  '•s\''.'y'' ■• '
                    'H'.. rf.(v


                  'f: ♦' ;


      Mi'
     •vi iV
      w. .                           ■u (.•'. ■I'i
                                                .1-
                                     "    :v.' i'.
   '^v/vr     ■
■■-A.I'
                              i




Sekob Misa's Bojjega Nueva,
                  Some other Jerez Bodegas.                    77

8 to 60 years old, and which are kept up hy means of the three
successive stages to which we have already alluded.
    Traversing the principal courtyard,where we get a ghmpse of
a couple of dark-eyed Spanish damsels nimbly knitting beneath
a shady green arbour, we inspect the little Lara Bodega, a
recent purchase hy the house,and containing 600 butts of young
wines, and next visit the Badel Bodega, holding some 2,500
butts, where amontillados and superior rayas—that is, wines of
the old Jerezano type—are stored. Some of these latter wines
were purchased in 1846, when they were already old, and they
certainly are remarkable for their richness and fragrance. In
this cellar some old East India sherry of great age and peculiar
aroma is preserved. From here we pass through the low,
irregularly-built, and somewhat picturesque JPontan Bodega,
devoted to sweet wines, including fine and rare Pedro Jimenez
and moscatel—some of the soleras of the former not having been
refreshed for many years—and then proceed to the grand Bodega
nueva, the largest but one in all Jerez, and holding as many
as 8,000 butts of wine, including every sweet and dry
variety. Here are several soleras of Montilla from the pages
known as the Zapateros, which enjoys the reputation of pro-
duciag the very finest wine; with other soleras of Montilla,
exceedingly light and delicate in flavour,from the Cabra district,
where Senor Misa annually secures the produce of a very large
vineyard. This bodega also contains di-y and sweet wines of
the Ai'cos district, where Senor Misa possesses an establish
ment at which several hundred butts o^" wines are vintao'ed
annually.
   Under the spacious exterior arcade of the Bodega nueva,
looking on to a long paved court bordered with orange-trees,and
where bak staves imported direct from the United States are
stacked, a vast niunber of casks rmdergoing the tedious but all-
necessary seasoning process are piled. These casks,after remain
ing filled with water for from four to six months, are transferred
to the large cellar opposite,containing several thousands of butts,
hogsheads,and quarter-casks, where they are filled up to the bung-
78                     Facts about Sherry.

tole witli wine,in wMch condition they complete their seasoning.
A double line of rails, which forms ajunction when passing beneath
the monumental tower already alluded to,runs through and com
municates with the adjacent main line of railway. Prom the
summit of this tower a very complete view is obtained of the
vineyards of the plain, while near its base is the engine-house
which supphes the steam for seasoning the newly-made casks
that are here steamed, watered,and wined by the thousand. The
constant clang of the cooper's hammer and the dull thud of his
formidable adze apprise us that the extensive cooperage, which
turns out 10,000 casks of all sizes yearly, is close at hand.
    The last department of this vast establishment which we
visited was the Shipping Bodega,containing a few thousand butts
of all the various descriptions of wine ready for shipment. These
wines undergo two separate finings,the latter one being of consi
derable duration. Owing to his large stock Senor Misa is enabled
to fine as many as 1,000 butts of any particular wine that is in
demand at the same time. It is his opinion that sherries which
have been several months on finings acquire a softness and age
which freshly-fined wines never possess. His arrangements in
this respect admit of Senor Misa shipping at a moment s notice
several hundred butts of wine in perfect condition, as was the
case in 1873, when he shipped as many as 1,400 butts during
the month of October, believed to be the largest quantity
ever shipped by a single house in the same space of time. In
the Shipping Bodega samples of wine of the very highest class
were offered us to taste, including finos of great character, deli-
cacy,^ and fragrance, amontillados that had developed their
peculiar special qualities in perfection, and olorosos of fine high
flavour and aroma.
     Another great shipping house is that of Garvey and Co.,who
can boast of possessing the largest single bodega in Jerez. This
vast structure is 600ft. in length by 126ft. in width,and its long
vistas of piled-up casks of wine, fading gradually into obscurity,
certainly offer an impressive spectacle. By close packing
as many as 8,000 butts can be stored beneath this one roof.
                  Some other Jerez Bodegas.                    79

where a thousand casks of amontillado alone are commonly kept
almost ready for shipment.
   Although, of course, the firm supplies every class of sherry,
amontillado has been its great specialty for upwards of thirty
years, when the founder of the house first commenced to ship
this wine, unknown up to that period in England. The soleras
of amontillado of remarkable age and character stored in this
bodega are distinguished by their finesse. At the farther end
of an adjacent spacious court are several smaller cellars stored
with various kinds of sherry, while an immense number of butts
of common wine are stacked beneath the adjoining colonnade.
In one of these bodegas, containing only selected soleras, we
tasted some wonderfully fine amontillado and a rare old brown
sherry the solera of which had been founded by the grandfather
of the three brothers who compose the existing firm. When the
Prince of Wales was at Jerez in his youthful days he tasted the
G-arvey wines of that epoch,and gave the palm to this particular
specimen, which at that date, I trust, was neither so potent nor
so pimgent as it is now.
   An adjacent five-aisled cellar contains a large stock of young,■
clean-tasting Montiha wine, which appears to constitute an
important feature in the business of the firm, who have an
establishment at Lucena, in the heart of the MontUla district,
where they make some 1,600 butts of this wine annually from
selected grapes, principally of the Pedro Jimenez variety,
purchased of the neighbouring growers. Passing from here
through various small courtyards, and glancing at some hand
some English mares, the beginning of a breeding-stud, we enter
a long narrow cellar where samples of fine MontiUa, ranging
from eight to twenty-five years old, were submitted to us. All
were pale, delicate, and fresh-tasting, while some more matured
specimens had acquired that marked etherous flavour and
bouquet characteristic of these wines, which assimilate closely to
the amontillado type.
   Haurie Hephews claim to be the oldest existing firm of
shippers of sherry. Its foimder was a native of France, and
80                      Facts about Sherry.

the origin of the house dates hack to the early part of the last
century. The Haurie of that epoch commenced to ship •wine
to Prance from Jerez duriug the Spanish War of Succession,
and when the Peace of Utrecht was signed, hastened to send
sherry to England—sherry over which Steele may have become
more light-hearted. Swift more morose, Bolingbroke more
eloquent, and Addison more didactic. As many as eighteen
firms of shippers are said to have sprung from this single house,
which plumes itself principally upon its light blended ■wines of
the old-fashioned type, although it has numerous remarkable
soleras of amontiUado and oloroso, including ■wines which secured
the four first-class medals at the Jerez Exhibition of 1856. The
celebrated Breadalbane " stag sherry," which fetched £7 5s. per
dozen at the Dalhousie sale last year, was one of the shipments
of this notable firm.
     The ■wines we tasted at the Haurie bodegas included. a
complete scale of amontillados ranging from the mosto of last
year up to a ■wine of about thirty years old. The fine etherous
flavour which disting^uishes the higher-class amontillados was
very apparent in the older samples. Prom about their sixth year
the ■wines grew perceptibly finer ■with increasing age ■until we
arrived at the upper part of the scale, when their pungency and
spirituousness became too pronounced to recommend them for
ordinary consumption. One comparatively youthful sample
kno^wn as the "Ah!" had a fine fresh fragrant fiavo^ur, and while
possessing ample body was yet of sufficiently low alcoholic
strength to be very agreeable drinking. We subsequently tasted
some rich olorosos the pungent flavour of which was subdued
by a charming ro^undness, and finally wound up with a grand
blended ■wine of high but refined flavour and great mello^wness,
which was priced, as such a wine merited to be, at ^240 a butt.
   Don Diego de Agreda has n^umerous fine soleras of various
classes of Jerez ■wines stored in his bodega, which, divided into
as many as eight aisles, communicates ■with by far the most
beautiful garden in all Jerez. Here, even late in the autumn,
one found brilliant floral parterres, ■with choice tropical plants,
                  Some other Jerez Bodegas.                   81

palms,pines,cedars,cypresses,cacti,orange and pomegranate trees
in profusion. Shady elms lined its pleasant walks,swans reflected
themselves in its rippling waters,and myriads of gold-fish swam in
glistening circles around its plashing fountain. Senor de Agreda's
house, with its patio in the style of one of the courts of the
Alhambra, is no less beautiful than his garden, and his wines
are worthy of the taste which these display. His stock numbers
between 8,000 and 9,000 butts; and he boasts of some rai-e old
wine purchased flve-and-twenty years ago at the rate of .£240
per butt, which had lain in a cellar untouched for more than one
generation, and was reputed to be fuUy a century old. The
amontillados we tasted here were perfect, and so were some
samples of fino from Seiior de Agreda's own vineyard.Las Canas,
which produces a remarkably delicate wine.
    The establishment of Senor Julian Pemartin—a great sherry
shipper, who, finding Jerez had merely a plain-looking Moorish
Alcazar, provided it with a highly ornate palace in the Louis
Quatorze style—is entered through one of its principal bodegas.
Crossing this we fiLnd ourselves in a pleasant court planted with
trees, and having a picturesque dome-roofed structure in its
centre. The old-established house prides itself on its amon
tillados, several fine samples of which, of gradually-increasing
age, we tasted. We were also shown some vino de paste,a full-
flavoured, amber-tinted sherry, of fine quality. The father of
Senor Pemartin was the first who introduced a Jerez wine into
England under this now weU-known but slightly inappropriate
name, and his shipments of it met with remarkable success.
Samples of wines of the old sherry type, whose tint had deepened
with age and not through the medium of vino de color, and
some of the soleras of which dated as far back as the year
1818, were next shown to us. Spite of the excessive pungency
common to wines of this great age, a real vinous flavour was
nevertheless discernible in the majority of them.
    The house of Jose Pemartin, owner of the well-known vine
 yard in the Cerro de Santiago, is an offshoot from the above.
 Stored in different bodegas are some venerable soleras in casks
 82                    Facts about Sherry.

 ■wHcli have become blackened by age—full-bodied, -well-roimded
 ■wines, the perfect mello'wness of which half a century has not
 impaired.   There, too, we were shown several finely-matured
 amontillados; also a wine of the old Jerez type, which carried
its thirty years buoyantly; and some comparatively juvenile,
fresh-tasting, and peculiarly fragrant finos.
    Within a stone's throw of the Jerez bull-ring is the spacious
bodega of Mr. E. Davies, who has the Torre Breva -vineyard at
San Lucar, and is proprietor of the celebrated Eibero Seco
vineyard, which produces the finest wine in Madeira, where he
also owns the villa and gardens of La Vigia, occupied by the
Empress of Austria during her residence on that island.
Mr. Davies, who takes the lead in the various sports -with which
the English community settled at Jerez seek to relieve the
monotony of an existence sacrificed to the rearing, blending, and
shipping of "svine for the benefit of their fellow-countiymen,
includes in his various stock some fine varieties. At his bodega
we tasted a -wine kno-wn to the clientele of the house as la Wovia,
an excellent amontillado sufficiently old to have developed its
finer qualities, and yet light and delicate. We were also shown
a beautifully-rounded wine from an ancient solera of Don Miguel
Viton's, some remarkably potent rare old -wine, and several very
delicate finos and manzanillas of different ages from the Torre
Breva vineyard, the vintage at which we have described. Mr. J. C.
Gordon, like his neighbour Mr. E. Davies, is a wine-grower as well
as a shipper. He o-wns one of the vineyards of the plain which
in good years produces 300 butts of wine. At his bodega we
met -with some fine fragrant olorosos, an old and potent
East India bro-wn sherry, and several high-class finos perfectly
matured. In this quarter of Jerez the bodega in which Senor
J. J. Vegas has recently installed himself is situated. His
principal -wines are of that type which was in such high
favour before the fashion for paler, and too often inferior,
varieties set in. The samples we tasted here were from soleras
composed of some of the best gro-wths of the Machamudo
and Carrascal districts, rounded by a judicious blending of a
                  Some other Jerez Bodegas.                     83

small quantity of sweet Pedro Jimenez. These wines,which have
very little spirit added to them, ordinarily attain, we were told,
in course of years an alcoholic strength of 36 deg. of proof spirit.
    On the other side of Jerez and near to the circular line of
railway connecting the principal Jerez hodegas are the cellars
of Messrs. Wisdom and Warter, who, while shipping sherries of
various kinds, make a speciality of wines of the fino type, prin
cipally from the Montilla district. These wines develop in a
limited degree earlier than the Jerez growths, and, while
remarkably clean-tasting, exhibited a certain fulness combined
with considerable character. As no spirit is added to them until
they are on the eve of being shipped, then- alcohohc strength in
the bodegas is remarkably low. To enable them to travel,
however, the older wines have to be brought up to a strength of
32 deg. and the younger ones to 86 deg. With these wines we
tasted some choice MontiUa of a fabulous age, also a fine full-
flavom-ed wine known in the bodega as "Emperador," and
several superior samples of sweet Pedro Jimenez.
    Hear to Messrs. Wisdom and Warter's are the newly-erected
bodegas of Mr.R.Ivison, who has numerous fine wines of various
types,and especially in the old Jerezano style—wines of remark
able character and not too pimgent in flavour. One oloroso, the
solera of which dated back to 1846, was exceptionally flne.
Mr. Ivison, who is a great partisan of the Seville wines, which
are very clean and fresh-tasting, although often of considerable
'alcoholic strength, hastens the development of certain inferior
 growths by subjecting them for six months or longer to natural
 heat under a low galvanised iron roof and in a special bodega
 admitting of scarcely any ventilation. In the adjoining bodegas
 of Messrs. Webber and Co. wines of the Jerez fino type are the
 dominating variety.
    Messrs. Mackenzie and Co.'s premises are close to the Jerez
railway station, and are entered through a pleasant patio paved
with marble and adorned with luxuriant tropical plants. To the
left are the offices, to the right the sample-rooms, and beyond
 are the bodegas, the principal of which, remarkable for its broad
84                     Facts about Sherry.

aisles, is capable of contaiiiing 5,000 butts of ■wine, wbile another
couple of thousand can be stored in the smaller cellars and
annexes. Here we tasted some fine manzanillas and amontillados,
and a very old Jerez wine, the solera of which is said to have
been established a century ago. It was of the oloroso type, dark
in colotu", and without that excessive pungency which these
antique ■wines commonly develop. Far more pungent was an
oloroso of greater age, the solera of which is kno'wn in the
bodegas by the name of " Fernando UI." This wine, we were
informed, could not be shipped under .£500 per butt. Another
oloroso, valued at .£300 per butt, proved to be a fine, deep-
coloured, weli-rotmded ■wine of great body and character.
    Messrs. Heyward and Wilson's bodega, situated in the
neighbourhood of the Pemartin Palace, is a handsome, well-
lighted structure, with a spiral staircase at one end of it con
ducting to a platform on the roof, whence a panoramic view of
Jerez and its surroundings—including .its Alcazar, churches,
bodegas, bull-ring, old Moorish towers and battlements, and
neighbouring vineyards—is obtained. The ■wines shipped by
this firm are principally Jerez ■vinos of ordinary and superior
quality, manzanillas, and the Montilla gro^wths, 'with certain
robuster varieties of the old Jerezano type.
   The ancient convent and church of the Jesuits, closed and
sold by order of the State some forty years ago, are to-day the
bodegas of Messrs. Matthiesen and Furlong—nave, aisles, choir,
and cloisters being alike crowded ■with butts of sherry ranged
as usual in triple tiers. This firm, instead of following the
antiquated ways customary in most of the Jerez bodegas, avail
themselves of all modern mechanical appliances. In the former
refectory of the convent they have a number of large vats, the
smallest holding some eight butts, which are used for maturing
and fining wines. The most capacious of these vats is reserved
for blending purposes, wine being pumped into it from the
neighbouring vats through gutta-percha tubing. The court of
the cloisters is fitted with apparatus for steaming the new casks,,
■which are here continually revolving in eccentric circles. The-
                  Some other Jerez Bodegas.                   b5

house omis a Tineyard some considerable distance north-east of
Jerez, in the district known as the Cuartillos, which, although
not of pure albariza soil, is nevertheless piincipally chalk, and
yields a good type of fino wine. The vines cultivated are the
palomino, castellano, and Pedro Jimenez varieties, and the usual
annual production amounts to 200 butts. For several years past
no yeso has been used in making wine at this vineyard.
   To reach Senor Tsasi's bodegas one has to pass through
some of the more curious among the old streets of Jerez, where
elaborate escutcheons figure above the ornamental doorways of
the principal houses,and stone pillars with richly-carved capitals
decorate many of their comers. The Tsasi bodegas, being
somewhat old-fashioned, are in keeping with these picturesque
surroundings, and Senor Tsasi's wines, notably his finos and
amontniados, if not of a like remote antiquity, are thoroughly
well matured and of high quality.
    The bodegas of Messrs. Cramp and Suter are entered through
a small but picturesque courtyard roofed in with trellis-work
overgrown with vines. On either side are the two principal
bodegas with some smaller cellars in their immediate vicinity.
The firm have several excellent fino soleras, which, contrary to
the general practice, are reared by them in a small and dark
bodega; also a few rare old wines, one of which dates back to
1812, the period of the retreat of the French from Moscow,
while others scarcely less old had made the voyage to Manilla
and back. These wines were highly aromatic, but generally too
 pungent and too potent for ordinary drinking.
    Among the half-dozen establishments of Jerez almacenistas.
 which we visited, the principal and by far the most interesting
 was that of Senor Sanchez Eomate. Here all the wines offered
 us to taste were of admirable quality, more especially those from
 high-class vineyards owned by the house, among which are
 La Soledad, some 110 acres in extent, and Los Quadrados, both
 in the Balbaina district, with the vineyards of La Carrina in the
 Machamudo and San Bias in the Carrascal districts. The sample
 from La Carrina, which had j)assed through three criaderas-
86                    Facts about Sherry.

 during the first four years of its youth, and had afterwards been
on a solera for a period of eight years, was of excellent quality,
stni the wine which especially commended itself to our taste was
a splendid fine, some ten years old, from the Santa Cecilia vine
yard, and which to great freshness and softness of flavour and
remarkable strength united a most captivating fragrance.
Among the more curious wines were some very old Jerezano of
singular meUo^vness from a solera established by Don Juan
Sanchez about a century ago, a venerable and highly-concen
trated moscatel which had more of the character of a liqueur
than a wine, a delicate and rare wine the produce of the small
moscatel grape from the Soledad vineyard, and several fines,
amontillados, and pasados of very refined flavour, the soleras of
which were stored in the Bodega del-huerta, one of the old
Moorish towers which rise at intervals above the battlemented
walls on this side of Jerez.




OLD 3IOOEISH TOWEBS AJTD BATTLEMENTS AT JBEEZ—BUTTS OF SnEHBT ON
                  THEIE WAT TO THE TEOCADBEO.
                Tlie Wines of the Bay of Cadiz.                     '87




  IX.—The Wines of the Bat op Cadiz, Chiclana, and
                            Teebujbna.

The Vineyards of Puerto Heal and Puerto de Santa Maria—A Rival to the
    Great Sherry Metropolis—Evidences of Decadence—Duif Gordon and Co.'s
    Establishment, Garden Court, and Rare Soleras—The Bodegas of Seuor
    M. de Mora, Superior Einos, Moscatel, Pedro Jimenez,and Jerezano Wine
    —Cosens and Co.'s Bodegas and High-class Soleras of Manzanillas, Finos,
    and Amontillados—The Gonzalez Bodegas in an Abandoned Convent—-The
    Admirable Wines of Seuor Gastelu—The Choice Finos and Amontillados
    of Mr. J. W.Burdon—Rota, its Vineyards, Market-gardens, and Moorish
    Remains—Interior of a Rota Wine-producing Establishment—Mode of
    Making the Sacramental Tent—Chipiona and its Vineyards—The Road
    to Chiclana—Chiclana famous alike for its Bull-fighters and its Wines—
    Trebujena.
   In addition to the many thousand acres of vineyards at
Jerez and San Lucar, producing almost all the finer wines, there
are others which belong to the sherry district proper. The
towns and villages claiming a Phoenician origin that dot the
shores of the beautiful Bay of Cadiz are all more or less noted
for their wines. The manzaniUa of San Lucar, and the tintilla
or so-called tent of Eota, are widely known in England, but the
other wines enjoy merely a local renown, and are commonly
either mingled with those of Jerez or else boldly shipped as
Jerez growths. Puerto Heal, lying equidistant between Jerez
and Cadiz, has only a few vineyards, which being in the
lowlands their produce, both as regards quantity and quality, is
of no great account. It is different, however, with Puerto de
Santa Maria, the vineyards of which are not only extensive, but
adjoin those of Jerez on their eastern side. The Puerto, more
over, ships no less than 20,000 butts of wine annually, or con
siderably more than its total production, much of which, by the
way, goes to Jerez; consequently it has to draw a certain pro
portion of the wine it ships from other districts, including even
Jerez itself.
   Puerto de Santa Maria is in fact a Jerez on a smaller scale.
88                    Facts about Sherry.

and, so far as wine is concerned, a kind of rival to the great
sheiTy metropolis, just as centuries ago it was more than the
rival of Cadiz as a port. The palaces raised by its merchant
princes of bygone times, and to-day converted to ignoble uses,
are in a sadly dilapidated condition. Their richly-carved door
ways are crumbling away; their proud scutcheons are well-nigh
obliterated; their marble patios — those elegant arcaded
courts of Moorish origin and design with sculptured fountains in
the centre—are going rapidly to ruin. An occasional small
passenger steamer, some scores of fishing boats, and a few
lighters are the only craft that now enter the ample harbour of
Puerto de Santa Maria, which a still-existing Moorish castle
once defended. Indeed, the Puerto does not even ship its own
wine direct, but sends it in barges to the Trocadero mole, some
four or five miles distant.
    The wines of the Puerto are in every respect the counterpart
of those of Jerez, excepting that they are, in a measure, inferior
to the finer varieties of the more renowned viticultural district,
owing to the best soils being of scarcely the same favourable
character. G-enerally speaking, they are from the same species.
of grape, are made in exactly the same manner, while their after-
treatment is in all respects precisely similar. Indeed, the most
experienced judge would fail to detect any difference between the
ordinary produce of the respective districts. The oldest shipping
house at the Puerto de Santa Maria is the well-known one of
Duff Gordon and Co., whose bodegas are reached through a.
charming garden court, bordered with handsome flowering
shrubs and with clusters of fine old trees towering in the centre.
Geraniums in all their splendour, with ivy and other climbing
plants, are trained up the walls, hiding all but the entrances to
the cellars. Of these the spacious shipping bodega, remarkable
for its wide passages between the several rows of casks all
posed in perfectly straight lines, and exactly level one with
another—contains 3,000 butts of various kinds of sherry wine.
Pour other bodegas are devoted to soleras comprising some
singularly delicate fines ten years old, with amontiUados of
               The Wines of the Bay of Cadiz.                  89

decided yet refined flavour, and olorosos of subdued pungent
taste and ricb aroma*   For one of tbese last-named wines <£400
per butt bad been offered and refused, it being considered mucb
too valuable for blending purposes to be parted with even at this
price. Over the door of the Duff Gordon sample-room projects
the stuffed head of a wild-looking short-homed bull, which at
some corrida de toros at the Puerto had killed its eleven horses
and remained the master of the ring.
   Another important shippiug house is that of Senor M. de
Mora, whose stock of wine exceeds 10,000 butts. All the
appointments of this great establishment, which is also set off
with its floral parterres and rows of orange-trees, are of the most
perfect kind. Machinery has been brought into requisition, not
only for steaming and washing, but for gaugiug and even
moistening the outsides of empty casks, so as to prevent the
staves from shrinking. In the bodegas, too, the lower butts are
supported on light iron stands instead of the usual cumbersome
wooden beams or blocks of stone. Travelling stages are, more
over, provided to enable the wine to be drawn from the upper
casks without the men having to climb up from one butt to the
other according to the prevailing practice. At these bodegas we
tasted some finos with a delicate bouquet and soft aromatic
flavour; a full, luscious, and powerfully-perfumed moscatel,
.priced at <£300 the butt; a spirituous Pedro Jimenez of the con
 sistency of syrup, and some rich amber-tiuted Jerezano wine of
 great age but remarkably refined flavour.
    Messrs. Oosens and Co., of Jerez, have several large bodegas
 at Puerto de Santa Maria. The court of their principal pre
 mises here is planted with flower-beds,orange,cypress,mulberry,
 and flowering laurel-trees, rising among which are a profusion
 of casks and piles of oak staves, as though every square foot of
vacant ground had to be turned to some useful purpose. In the
remarkably cool bodega where the firm keep some of their high-
 class soleras are manzaniUas of fine fresh aromatic flavour and
 powerful floral bouquet, Jerez finos, cool to the palate, and with
 that tender almond taste which recalls the rarer growths of the
90                     Facts about Sherry.

Eheingau, and amontillados ttat are almost essences while still
continuing to be wines. Messrs. Gronzalel and Co. have also
their bodegas at the Puerto, an abandoned convent being crowded
with wines of theirs, comprising exclusively the cheaper qualities.
The bodegas of Senores Gastelu contain 4,000 butts of exclusively
high-class wines,principally.choice fines with remarkably fragrant
bouquets and of varied degrees of delicate yet sufla.ciently pro
nounced flavour, together with some highly odorous, matured,
weU-rounded amontiUados.        Each of these admirable wines
seemed to have a distinct character of its own. At the bodega
of Mr. J. W.Burden we also met with some exquisite fines of
great fragrance and delicacy, and went through an interesting
scale of amontillados of splendid equality.
    Beta lies to the north-west of Puerto de Santa Maria, and
close to the seashore. The road for some little distance is
bordered by acacia-trees, a perfect novelty in the sherry district,
for leave Jerez on whichever side you will not a single tree along
the public highway will obstruct your view. Trees, say the
Jerez agriculturists, harbour birds, and birds only devour our
crops, thei'efore we keep our fields and highways completely
clear of trees. After the last tree in the outskirts of the Puerto
is passed the road skirts numerous patches of vines, planted in
either loamy or sandy soils, known respectively as barros and
arenas. It then intersects a broad plain, dotted over with white
casas and cortijos, with their adjacent cattle-sheds and huge
stacks of straw, and bounded on the left by a range of heights
laid out as olive groves and pine plantations. Ahead there riseS'
up a steep hill overgrown with vines, and having at its summit
an ancient telegraph tower. Some little distance farther on the
road to Eota branches off to the left, and we ascend a gentle
slope crowned by a dark pine wood,and soon the bright blue sea
and low Moorish-looking houses of Eota appear in sight. Vine
yards are here intermingled with tomato fields, and market
gardens furnished with the old-fashioned Moorish norias, with
their revolving wheels and earthenware jars, by means of which
the land is irrigated. Eota contributes largely to the supply of
               Tlie Wines of the Bay of Cadiz.                 91

not merely Puerto de Santa Maria, but also of Jerez and Cadiz,
with fiTiit and vegetables. Of this we soon have evidence in the
troops of mules and donkeys which we meet laden with their
canastos of tomatoes, sweet capsicums, ruddy pomegranates,
young green peas, and spring radishes as large as ordinary
carrots.
   The first view of Eota is somewhat picturesque.         To the
right is an abandoned bodega and an ancient mansion with an
elaborate escutcheon above its richly-ornate doorway. To the
left is a quaint little chapel standing among weeping willows
and cypresses, while in front the iU-paved calle principal of the
little seaside town presents a long vista of one-storied, white-
walled houses with the conventional barred windows, and
gargoyles projecting from their low and occasionally overhanging
roofs, along which rows of pumpkins are laid to dry. Rota
boasts the remnants of some Moorish ramparts which defended it
on the side facing the sea, and a fine old Moorish castle with weU-
preserved battlements and towers; also a remarkably curious
church, originally a mosque, with an elaborately-sculptured
choir worthy of any cathedral; and some handsome chapels, the
walls and dome of one of which are covered with painted tiles of
singularly fantastic design.
    On visiting one of the largest wine-producing establishments,
an almost windowless house, with a massive square tower in the
Moorish style, one observed the customary lagares ranged under
a low arcade, with the usual well in the centre of the court, and
piles of dried grape-skins heaped up around. Rear the lagares
stood an antique-looking screw-press, used in the making of the
tintilla—the well-known sacramental Tent—for which Rota is so
celebrated. The grapes, a small dark red variety, after being
exposed to the sun for eight days, are passed through a sieve to
separate them from their stalks. They are afterwards thrown
into a large butt stood on end, and when this is almost three-
parts full six arrobas or twenty-one gallons of vino de color are
added to them. A man now gets carefully into the cask, which
by this time is very nearly full, and turns over the grapes with
92                   Facts about Sherry.

his hands and stirs them about with his feet as well as with a
wooden shovel; the result being that they are partially crushed
and thoroughly saturated with the vino de color. The mixture
is left in the same casks for six weeks or longer, during which
time it ferments and acquires great depth of colour from the
skins of the grapes. The latter are now emptied out and placed
under the press on mats of esparto, and, the final juice having
been extracted and mixed with that which has already fiowed
from the fruit, the must is poured into other butts.
     A common red wine is made at Eota somewhat after the
same system as is pursued with respect to the tiutilla, the main
difference being that ordinary white wine is used instead of
vino de color.    About a thousand butts of white wine are
vintaged annually at Eota from the same species of grapes,
but according to the process of vinification prevalent in the
other sherry districts. The Alcalde of Eota, whom we found
sitting in a little ^vine-shop kept by his son and surrormded by a
veritable court of muleteers, waggoners, and market-gardeners,
informed us that there were some 2,200 acres of vineyards in the
Eota district, more than one-fourth of which are the property
of the Due de Montpensier. They produce a considerable
q^uantity of grapes for table purposes in addition to 1,400
butts of wine, not more than 120 of which, however, are tintilla
of Eota, or sacramental Tent.
   Chipiona, picturesquely situated a few miles farther along
the shores of the Bay of Cadiz, amid the same remnants of
Moorish battlements and towers as characterise all the towns and
villages hereabouts, produces a few hundred butts of white wine
annuaUy, all of which find their way either to Jerez or San
liucar. It is, however, more especially noted for its splendid
moscatel grapes, which are grown on the sand so close to the
seashore that every patch of half-a-dozen vines has to be sur
rounded by its dwarf fence to prevent the wind from the sea
blowing away the soil and leaving the roots of the vines bare.
   The wine-producing district of Chiclana lies on the other side
of Cadiz, and is reached from Jerez by railway to San Fernando,
                The Wines of the Bay of Cadiz.                 93

 and thence by a few miles' cut across the surrounding salt
 marshes. At the time of oui* visit, late in the autumn, the
journey was a pleasant one,for some heavy showers had sensibly
moderated the heat, although the sun was still sufficiently
powerful and the sky of as deep a blue as ever. Autumn and
spring appear to combine at this particular season in Andalusia,
for while flowering chrysanthemums and ripe pomegranates
abounded in all the gardens barley was sprouting in the fields
and olive groves, purple primroses were blooming by the sandy
roadside, and fresh green peas were coming daily to market.
On leaving Jerez the railway runs for a short distance past vine
yards and isolated olive groves, with the Guadalete winding
through the adjacent marshy plain,and the small castle, replacing
the one where unhappy Dona Blanca was confined by Peter
the Cruel, crowning a jutting ridge on our right hand. Nest
come the works for supplying Cadiz with fresh water, by means
of a reservoir half-way up a lofty hill, at the foot of which are
some extensive stone quarries, where in the spring of this year
a youth sequestrated fi-om his family at Algar, some thudy miles
distant, was secreted until the stipulated ransom was paid to his
brigand captors. After crossing the Guadalete at Puerto de
Santa Maria the line runs through salt marshes and moorland,
past huge white pyramids of salt and dark green pine woods,
skirting on the one hand the plain where Roderick, last ruler of
the Goths in Spain, risked the decisive battle which lost him his
kingdom and his life, and with the white walls and towers of
Cadiz rising, as it were, from out the deep blue sea on the
other.
   From San Fernando to Chiclana was httle more tba.n half-
an-hour's drive, the four horses of our carretela being incited by
coaxings, scoldings, and judicious applications of the whip to
gallop all the way. The route hes first across an old fortified
stone bridge on the outskirts, then over a bridge of boats, and
finally between two long canals communicating with the neigh
bouring salt-works which extend for a considerable distance
aroimd. A gloomy pine wood,stretching for miles inland,skirts
94                    Facts about Sherry.

tlie road on tlie left just before we reach Chiclana, which, inter
sected by the little river Lirio, lies on the slope of a steep hill.
Chiclana is equally noted for its bull-fighters as for its wines,
having given birth to more celebrated toreadores than any other
town in Spain, notably those famous rival matadors, Francisco
Montes and Jose Eedondo—^better known as el Chiclanero—
with whose exploits all Spain rang during the early years of the
reign of the ex-Queen Isabella. Not merely the cities but all
the towns hereabouts have their bull-rings, where spavined
horses are annually gored by hundreds, and bulls slaughtered in
scores, amidst frantic exclamations of delight on the part of the
sanguinary audiences which these sickening spectacles never fail
to attract. On the other side of the hiU, crowned by a little
chapel on the site of a former hermitage, are the Chiclana vine
yards, producing in favourable years about 4,000 butts of
passably good wine, which finds its principal market at Jerez,
where it is mixed with the ordinary Jerez growths. The few
samples we tasted were all fresh in flavour and possessed con
siderable body, and, although invariably young, seemed as if
they would develop a certain amount of character.
    One other insignificant wine-producing locality completes what
may be regarded as the real sherry district. This is Trebujena,
a neglected,shabby-looking little town perched on the summit of
a hill some fifteen miles due north of Jerez, and shut out in a
measure from all intercourse with surrounding localities. To
reach it one has to cross a vast imcultivated plain called the
lilanos of Caulina, at one end of which the Jerez racecourse and
cricket-ground are situated, whilst crowning a little hillock at
the other are the ruins of the Moorish castle of Melgarejo. The
quantity of wine vintaged at Trebujena is comparatively small,
and its quality is of no marked character.
            Wi'nes of the Seville and Mogiier Districts.                95




     X.—Wines of the Seville and Mogheb Disteicts.

 Seville and the Gipsy Snbnrh of Triana—Vineyards on the High Lands near the
     Guadalquivir — The House where Cortes died — The "Wine-producing
     districts of Gines, ViUanueva, Espartina, and Salteras—System of Vini-
     fieation—Price of Grapes and Mosto—The Vineyards of San Lucar la
     Mayor and Manzanilla—The fresh-tasting Ambrosial Wine of the latter—
     The Condado de Niebla and its [Low-Class Wines—The Vintage in the
     Moguer district — The Wines shipped as Sherry—Moguer the Port
     Columbus sailed from.

    Pew sherry-cLriiikers are aware that the shippers of this
 popiilar wine derive a certain portion of their supply from
 districts not merely scores hut even hundi-eds of miles away
 from the true sheny region, which in reality only extends from
 twelve to sixteen miles around Jerez. In the first place, the
 whole of that tract of undulating country which stretches from
 Seville—noted rather for its olives and its oranges than its
 wines—to Huelva on the extreme south-west coast of Spain, has
numerous vineyards interspersed among its miles upon miles of
olive groves,and produces wines of variable although rarely high
quality, most of which are exported, blended with Jerez gi-owths,
as sherry. To reach this viticultural region we proceeded along
the valley of the G-uadalquivir as far as Seville, the most fasci
nating of Andalusian cities ; the ancient Phoenician settlement
of whose conquest in after times Csesar was so proud; the early
capital of the Grothic Idngs; the city which still bears such
striking traces of Roman, Moorish, and mediasval splendour;
the port whence Oortcs and Pizarro sailed to the conquest
of Mexico and Peru; and the birthplace of the two greatest
painters that Spain has produced—Bartolome Esteban Murdlo
and Velasquez de Silva.
   The nearest vineyards are all on the high lands on the
opposite side of the G-uadalquivfr to that on which Seville
stands, and a few miles beyond the gipsy suburb of Triana,
where John Phihp had his studio and found the subjects for so
96                    Facts ahout Sherry.

many of Ms pictures of Andalusian life. After crossing the flat
and uninteresting plain wMch borders the Moors'famous"river
of delight," the road, skirted by trees and aloes and bustling
with country carts and mules laden with flrewood, winds round
one of a series of bold, cultivated hills, where in the month of
November beans and barley were sprouting up around the
gnarled grey trunks of thousands upon thousands of ancient
olive-trees. The flrst vineyards are sighted just before we
reach the summit of the hill after passing through CastiUeja de
la Cuesta, where a bronze bust and a gilt tablet over a restored
antique doorway in the village high street indicate the house
where the truculent conqueror of Mexico died in disgrace and
indigence. Some little distance to the right, and encompassed
by plantations of vines and olives, is the straggling village of
Grines. Here, as soon as it was known that we had been
inquiring for el Senor Alcalde, symptoms of disquiet at once
manifested themselves, for it was thought we were Government
functionaries connected with the detested conscription. The
alcalde, who was discussing with the baker the regulation price
of bread as our vehicle came to a halt in front of the village
ayuntamiento,informed us that Gines had only between one and
two hundred acres of vineyards, all planted piincipally with the
garrido species of grape, and yielding ordinarily 400 butts of
wMte wine, valued at the time of being drawn oft the lees at
from £A 10s. to £,& per butt when taken from the bodega.
   We found that this price only slightly varied at other places
in the neighbourhood—notably Yillanueva, Espartina, and
Salteras—having among them a couple of thousand acres of vine
 yards interspersed between vast tracts of olive grounds, and
 producing in favonrable years some 10,000 butts of wine,instead
 of the third of that quantity,wMch resulted from the vintage just
 concluded. The prevailing soil in which the vines are planted is
 reddish clay, indicative of the presence of oxide of iron, while the
 subsoil is chalk, and hence a certain character in the better-class
 growths of this locality. The vintage in the neighbourhood of
 Seville ordinarily commences about the middle of September, and
         Wines of the Seville and Moguer Districts.             97'

is conducted mucL. tlie same as througliout the Jerez district,the
only difference being a slight variation in the mode of crushing
the grapes. There are no means of pressing these in the vine
yards, the lagares and presses being invariably adjacent to the
bodegas in the different villages. After having been trodden
in capacious stone lagares on a level "with the floor of the press-
house, the grapes are piled up in a broad heap and bound rormd
"with long bands of esparto, a cumbersome screw-press "with
a huge heavy beam, some twenty feet long and four feet in
diameter, being employed to extract the remaining juice. The
"vintagers are paid at the rate of seven to eight reals (18d. to
20d.) per day, and, as at Jerez, are invariably of the male sex,
women in Spain never being allowed to take part in the vintage,
although they assist largely at the subsequent olive harvest.
    Grapes had been sold,we found,in the Seville district at from
3 to 4 reals, or ^^d. to lOd., the arroba of 25ilbs. The answers
we received to numerous inquiries as to the quantity of yeso
used in making the Seville wines agreed in stating that this
amounted to di^lbs. to each butt of mosto. Generally this mosto
is dra-wn off the lees by the purchaser, who in a majority of
instances adds a small percentage of spirit to it. When, how
ever, it is drawn off by the grower, spirit is only added in the
event of the wine getting out of order. At different bodegas
we tasted several young unripe wines and also wines ranging
from five to six years old. The latter had an agreeable bouquet,
and were of a soft, light, pleasant flavour, which we found became
much more spirituous in -wines of greater age. These so-called
Seville wines are scarcely consumed at aU on the spot; they are,
however, commonly drunk at Sevflle itself, and considerable
quantities of them are purchased by the Jerez shippers mainly
to serve as the basis for cheap sherries. Messrs. Gonzalez and Co.
have a large bodega at Seville, which, like other establishments
of the same nature, was formerly an abandoned convent; and
here they store a large stock of the better class of Se-vflle "wines.
    San Lucar la Mayor, some eight miles from Salteras, like all
the to"wns and villages hereabouts, is perched on the summit of
98                     IFacts about Sherry,

a hill, and surrounded by olive-groves, orchards, and vineyards.
Its ■wine is of no particular repute, but it is very different with
that of Manzanilla, some fourteen miles farther along the high
road from Seville to Huelva. The ManzaniUa vineyards produce
a ■wine bearing so striking a resemblance to the celebrated
growths of San Lucar de Barrameda, that these latter have
come to be universally kno^wn under the same name. The slopes
of the hill on which Manzanilla is situated are covered ■with
■vines, and aU the well-to-do inhabitants of the place have their
bodegas stocked ■with the fresh-tasting ambrosial wine of which
the little "village is so justly proud.
    Manzanilla is the last ■wine-gro^wing locality along our route
that produces ■wine of any character; an extensive viticultural
district kno^wn as the Condado de Niebla "yields, however, a
considerable quantity of low-class sweetish white ■wine, nearly
the whole of which finds its way to Moguer, a little to^wn on
the Eio Tinto, where of late years a brisk trade in ■wine has been
carried on.    The vintage hereabouts takes place in the middle
of September, the different species of grapes cultivated in the
district, including the garrido macho and fino, palomino, mantuo,
perruano, zalema, and the mantuo de San Lucar, being all
mingled in the lagares, and the coarser stalks even not beiag
removed.      Prior to our visit, at the opening of the ■vintage,
grapes in the Moguer district were sold for as little as two reals,
or fivepence, the arroba of 25-|^lbs.; but when the extent of the
expected falling off in the Jerez crop became known, the price
gradually rose ■until it had doubled itself. The pressing of the
grapes is accomplished in the same fashion as prevails in the
neighbourhood of Se^ville, and when the mosto is dra^wn off the
lees in the spring somewhat less than 1 per cent, of spirit is
added to it.     Should the wine remain for a second year in the
grower's hands this is nrdinarily supplemented at the end of
that time by a similar quantity of alcohol. The commonest
■wines are converted into spirit, an operation which m^ges to
keep a couple of distilleries at Moguer constantly at work.
     The Jerez shippers are somewhat reticent as to the extent to
          Wines of the Seville and Moguer Districts.          99


wMch tliey avail themselves of the Moguer growths, and affect
to speak contemptuously of these' -wines. It is, nevertheless,
quite certain that some 15,000 butts of the "wines in question are
sent away from Moguer regularly every year, the hulk being no
doubt shipped to England as sherry, principally from the
Trocadero mole, and to some extent even from Moguer itself,
the port whence four centuries ago Columbus sailed with his
little fleet on that famous first transatlantic voyage which re
sulted in the discovery of the West Indies. On the summit of
a height rising from the seashore some few miles distant stands
the abandoned convent of La Eabida, where Columbus sought
shelter, and so impressed the prior with the truth of his theories
that the latter accorded him a steady protection, which led
eventually to the realisation of the adventurous navigator's long-
cherished projects.




               EMPTYINO THE GEAPES IKIO THE EAGAE.
 100                     Facts about Sherry.


     XI.—The Montilla Wines.—Conclhding Eemaeks.

 The Tovm of Montilla encircled by Sierras—The Birthplace of el Grand
     Capitan Gonzalo of Cordova—The Castillo and Palacio of the Dukes of
     Medina-Celi—The ancient Ducal Bodega of La Tercia—Its Centenarian
     Casks and Grand Solera—The Teatroand Tres Naves Bodegas—^The Press-
    house, its antiquated Press and huge Tinajas—Vineyards of the Sierra de
    Montilla and the Moriles District—System of Vinification—Fermentation
    of the Mosto in the Tinajas—Kemoval of the Wine in Goatskins—Vineyard
    Value and Price of Grapes—The Wine-growing Districts of AguUar,
    Monturque, Cahra, and Lucena—Concluding Remarks upon Sherry in
    general.

   Moee tLan a hundred miles eastward of Seville, and in
the famous province of Cordova, is the weU-known wine
growing district of Montilla, one of the numerous appanages
of the grand dukedom of Medina-Celi. Montilla, walled and
fortified in olden times like all the surrounding towns, stands,
like them, on the crest of a steep hill encircled on all sides by
distant sierras. The Castillo is at the eastern extremity of
the town, and to reach it you climb the narrow, winding, pre
cipitous, ill-paved streets leading up to the principal church,
passing on the way the humble white-walled little house
where the great ancestor of the Dukes of Medina-Celi—el gran
capitan Gonzalo of Cordova—was born. IVom the terraced
courtyard in front of the castiUo a splendid view is obtained
over the surrounding vineyards and forests of olive-trees,
so symmetrically planted that when viewed from a height
they present a perfect diaper pattern,regular as the squares upon
a chess-board. The Castillo itself—a building erected at different
periods—is flanked by a couple of battlemented towers, while
the large haU which forms the principal portion of the edifice
has been converted into a bodega. The Dukes of Medina-CeU.
never resided at the castfllo, but at the so-called palacio, a
singularly plain but roomy edifice facing a large square on the
other side of the town, and in close proximity to the unpreten
tious little alameda where the Montillanos are accustomed to
assemble on summer evenings.
Pfii''"
    , ; .w Wi.-i
Anciext Bodega of La Tekcia at IMontilla.
                     The Montilla Wines.                      101


   The ancient ducal bodegas, with all their grand soleras,
passed some years ago into the possession of Messrs. Gonzalez,
who are to-day holders of the finest Montilla wines in the
country, several of them being, in fact, imique.    The principal
bodega, erected at the commencement of the last century, at a
period when the dukes used to receive their rents in kind, still
bears the name of La Tercia, from the circumstance that here
one-third of the produce of the land used to be handed over by
the cultivator as the landlord's share. The Meclina-Celi bodegas
are situated in the market-place of Montilla, which was crowded
at the time of our visit with singularly picturesque groups, the
women in light-coloured shawls and fichus, the men in the
orthodox turban hats, and wrapped up in capacious cloaks with
innumerable folds, their trousers slit half-way to the knee, and
their leathern gaiters unlaced, so as to display the clean white
stocking beneath. The arriving and departing mules exhibited
the customary redimdance of ragged trappings. On the opposite
side of the market-place rose a group of quaint Spanish houses,
flanked by the cold grey walls of some abandoned convent, form
ing an appropriate background to the animated scene.
    An old archway, above which is carved the shield of the
Medina-Cells, with its many proud quarteriags, leads into the
paved courtyard of La Tercia, planted round with orange-trees,
and having vines trained up the low white-walled buildings ■
surrounding it. To the left is the low doorway of the ancient
bodega, where casks nearly a couple of centuries old are ranged
in two tiers on a venerable framework of massive oak.       There
is a strange antiquated air about the whole place, which is but
dimly lighted by a single small window.       Huge spiders have
spun gigantic webs from butt to butt, or between the blackened
beams of the slanting roof. The centenarian casks are of a dull
greenish hue, and their thiu iron hoops are so corroded that it is
a miracle how the very slim staves manage to hold together.
These casks were evidently the work of coopers ignorant of how
more substantial staves than those here employed could be bent
into shape.
102                   Facts about Sherry.

    The grand solera stored in this hodega is believed to have
been founded prior to the erection of the bodega itself. It
comprises as many as eight ascending scales, the youngest wine
of which under ordinary circumstances would rank as old. To
leplenish this solera, wines of the first quality have to be
procured from time to time, and nursed for years. We tasted
numerous samples of the result, and were struck with the
varieties of flavour and bouquet apparent even in different butts
belonging to the same scale. One had a soft ambrosial taste,
while some possessed the raciness and freshness of flavour
of a grand Ehine wine. Others had a rich nutty taste and
smell, while others were delicately aromatic. As the samples
grew older they deepened in colour and exhibited a refined
etherous flavour and odour, which eventually became so power
ful as to render the most ancient among them far from agreeable
drinking.
    Two other bodegas, known respectively as the Teatro and
Tres Haves, contain Montilla wines somewhat less delicate in
character, but of a fine oloroso type, the produce of the cele
brated Moriles district. Adjoining is the press-house, with its
antiquated heavy beam-presses, while on either side of the
entrance gateway are the huge tinajas, or capacious earthenware
jars, sunk deep into the earth,and used for fermenting the wine.
In one comer of the plaza facing the palacio Messrs. Gonzalez
and Co. have a distillery, where they produce spirit from sound
Montilla wines purchased for the special purpose.
    The finer Montilla growths come exclusively from "the Sierra
de Montilla, and the district of Moriles lying on the other side
■of the range of hills on which the neighbouring fortified towns
of Aguilar and Monturque are perched.          Ho regular roads
conduct to them, and it is necessary to make the excursion on
horseback along such caminos de herradm-as as wind round the
sides of the mountain. For a certain portion of the way we
followed the high road, with olive-groves, vineyards, and highly-
cultivated fields on either side; but after a few miles we branched
off, and soon commenced a toilsome ascent of slopes becoming
                     Tlie Mantilla Wines.                    103

gradually steeper and steeper, but over -wbicb tbe plough bad
nevertheless recently passed, leaving no track -whatever for us to
follo-w. The -vines -were merely so many gnarled and blackened
stumps, having already undergone their autumnal pruning,
-while many had trenches round them to receive the autumn
rains. The finer soils are albariza, though not of the same
extreme -whiteness as in the Jerez district. Two species of vines
predominate—^the Pedro Jimenez and the baladi, the former
being much more prevalent than the latter. All the finer vine
yards have their casas -with the requisite conveniences for press
ing the grapes, the same as the vineyards around Jerez. The
old cumbersome beam-press, howevei-, is almost universally used.
    The system of vinification in the Montilla district is as
follows:—The Pedro Jimenez grapes, which ripen the earhest,
are gathered from two to three weeks before the others, and
carried in tall vase-shaped baskets called cestos, each holding
upwards of601bs.,to the stone lagares, where they are trodden and
pressed, usually -without any admixture of gypsum. The pressing
finished, the mosto is emptied into those vast earthenware jars
called tinajas of which we have already spoken—the largest of
which -will hold nearly 400 gallons of mosto. When thesejars—
which are sunk some five feet into the ground,and pro-vided with
steps to enable the men to fill and empty them conveniently—
are about two-thirds full,the mosto is left to ferment,the mouth
of the jar remaining uncovered while fermentation is going on.
In a fortnight or three weeks' time the jars are filled up -with
the must restdting from the pressure of the baladi grapes—a
coarser species ripening later than the Pedro Jimenez. A
second fermentation of course follows, and when its more violent
character has subsided the mouths of the jars are covered with
wooden lids, and the mosto is left until the early spring. On
being removed from the jars it is placed in pallejos—i.e.,
thoroughly-seasoned goatskins—or else in small casks, both of
which are slung across the backs of mules, and in this way the
-wine is conveyed to the Montilla bodegas, where it is at once
emptied into ordinary casks. The -vintagers receive 5 reals or a
104                   Facts about Sherry.

trifle over a sMUiag a day,wiiile the menemployed atthe presses get
half as much again. The value of an acre of vineyard of alhariza
SOU in the MorUcs district is .£60; vineyards less favom-ably
situated being-worth about one-third of that amount and upwards
per acre. In the best vineyards only a single butt of wine
per acre is calcrUated upon, whereas the commoner soUs -will
readUy yield a couple of butts. The finer grapes are not sold
by the growers,but are made by them into -wine; inferior grapes,
however, can be bought in any quantity at the rate of 251bs. for
lOd. The latter are pressed at the bodegas in the to-wn, and
much of the wine yielded by them goes to Malaga, whereas all
the finest Montilla finds its way to Jerez. The -wine is preferred
by certain shippers there because it enjoys the reputation of
ripening a couple of years earlier than the Jerez gro-wths.
    In the neighbourhood of MontiUa there are other considerable
"wine-gro-wing districts whose produce is in some repute,although
it falls far short of first-class MontiUa.    These are AguUar,
Monturque, Cabra, and Lucena, the latter being by far the most
important. It is here,by the way,that those capacious earthen
ware jars called tinajas are made.

    These pages may be fitly closed with a few remarks, the
result of a lengthened study under especiaUy favourable circum
stances of numerous -wines, produced not only from very difi'erent
soUs, but from -widely different species of grapes; and all of
which are shipped to England mider the generic name of sherry.
I have already sho-wn that the smaU quantity of gypsum used
in making these wines is productive of no harmful result. That
it converts certain tartrates into sulphates is true enough; but
if any one imagines that it does this to the extent of changing
the flavour of the -wine in the smallest degree, or that sherry,
fermented -without having had gypsum added to it, possesses any
of that fresh acidulous flavour which sound judges so much
admire in -wines of more northern latitudes, he is greatly mis
taken. I have frequently compared wines from the same vine
yard made with and -without gypsum, and have been unable to
                      Concluding Remarlcs.                   105

detect the slightest indication of any more acid flavour in the
latter than in the former. At San Lucar the grapes are gathered
earlier than at Jerez, and consequently not quite so ripe. This
has the effect ofimparting to young manzanilla a certain freshness
of flavour, •which is, however, equally apparent in -wines made
■with or "without gypsum. With regard to the sulphuring which
sherry is said to undergo,Iam able to assert that the practice
has almost ceased at Jerez, where the shippers as a rule decline
all offers of wines that have been sulphui-ed.
   Ihave come to the conclusion that it is impossible to have
sherry good and at the same time cheap. Even the commonest
. gro-wths require to be kept for three or fom- years before they
are suitable for drinking, and the nursing of sherry in a bodega
for four years simply means doubling its original cost. The
•wine in its youth is liable to constant perturbation, and under
such conditions is of com-se a most imwholesome beverage.
Disturbing it in any way, sending it jolting upon bullock-carts
 from one bodega to another, subjecting it to the motion it must
necessarily encounter during a sea voyage, and exposing it to
 great changes of temperature—all of these things tend to revive
 a fermentation that has not thoroughly completed itself. My
 own opinion is that there is something radically "wrong in the
 mode of fermenting -wines in the south of Spain. It takes place,
Ibelieve, at too high a temperature, in vessels too small for the
 purpose, with the must not sufficiently exposed to the action of
 the atmosphere, and subjected, moreover, to frequent great
 changes of temperature and other disturbing influences. If
 properly fermented in the flrst instance, so fine and robust a
 ■wine as a first-class Jerez gro"wth—the produce of a magnificent
 grape, gro"wn in an exceptionally suitable soil, under the most
 favourable climatic influences—ought not to require spirit added
 to it to enable it to travel even during the years of its youth.
     A cheap sherry, no matter the district whence it comes,
 whether from Moguer, Seville, or even La Mancha—for certain
 shippers go as far afield as the country of Don Quixote for
 their -wine—must necessarily be a young, undeveloped "wine.
 106                    Facts about Sherry.

 liable to get out of order tbe moment it is moved. As it is
 originally of a pale dull colour, vino de color bas to be added to
 give it a marketable tint. Some dulce, moreover, is requisite to
 round off its ra-wness, wbicb of itself is sufficient to revive fer
 mentation, and, as a consequence, spirit bas to be added in
 considerable quantities to render tbe wine wbat is termed"safe."
 Our wine-mercbants are mainly responsible for any excess of
 added spirit to tbe bigber-class sherries. Over and over again
we were told tbat tbey positively demand it of tbe shipper, who,
if left to himself and not made responsible, as be most absurdly
is, for tbe condition of tbe wine for two years after it leaves bis
possession, would send it over containing several degrees less of.
spirit. It is excess of added spirit, and not gypsum or sulphur,
which is tbe real bane of sherry.
   If, instead of wines being shipped when tbey are merely a
year old, tbey were kept for another three years, and tbe absurd
practice of fining them, which simply emasculates them, were
dispensed with, tbey might be shipped with a very slight addi
tion of spirit—scarcely more than one-sixth of the quantity they
receive at present. In this case we should have a tolerably
developed wine, with a decided vinous flavour, unmasked by
added alcohol, and consequently without that fieriness common
to the cheap sherries we get at present. To please the public
eye a trifle of vino de color might be necessary, but this would
be in no way detrimental. A fair wine of the above chai-acter
could,however,scarcely be shipped under .£22 per butt; whereas
so keen is competition, that shipments of new wines are made at
present at as low a rate as from £12 to .£14.
   In my judgment the quality of the finer Jerez wines, and
particularly of the high-class ones, is materially impaired by the
fining which these undergo, in obedience to public caprice, with
the view of insuring an excessive brightness prior to shipment.
This is more especially the case with finos, which lose
much of their characteristic yet refined flavour and more of
their bouquet by the process. In the bodega of Mr. J. W.
Burdon at Puerto de Santa Maria, I had the opportunity of
                      Concluding RemarJcs.                    107

comparing some admirable fines with tbe same wines fined for
shipment, and in every instance the latter had perceptibly
suffered both in flavom- and perfume. Indeed, after added
spirit, this practice of fining is the next thing that tends to
deteriorate the higher quahties of sherry.
     Wines of the amontillado and oloroso character improve
materially by being kept from two to five years, and even longer,,
in bottle. They become softer and rounder,losing much of that
fiigfi; pungent flavour which they acquire with increasing age.
On the other hand, wines of the fino type which have not been
saturated with spirit, not merely do not improve but positively
deteriorate after having been in bottle for a twelvemonth. The
so-called bottle flavour, in fact, simply destroys their ambrosial
freshness, and impairs alike their elegance and their delicacy.
    The question of admitting wine containing more than the
regulation 26" of proof spirit at the lowest rate of duty—namely.
Is. per gallon—is again undergoing discussion,and certainly the
growers of sherry are justified in their protests. For so far as
my own researches enable me to judge, it is beyond question
spite of the investigations made soine years ago by the agents of
Her Majesty s Customs—that sherry as its age increases will
develop a higher strength than 26 degrees when not even a drain
of extraneous spirit has been added to it from the moment the
grapes were pressed in the lagar. This is doubtless due to the
evaporation of the aqueous portion of the wine in the hot and dry
chmate of Jerez, and which is estimated by the rearers of shei-ry
at4 per cent, and upwards annually. In the Jerez bodegasI con-
stantly came across wine of the very highest character, to which,
according to reliable evidence, no more than 1 per cent, of spirit
had been added,and yet by tbe time it was twenty years old—no
exceptional age, it must be remembered, for a Jerez wine—it in
dicated from 33" to 34" of proof spii-it.
   Shei-ry-growers say with justice that in the face of these facts
it m unfair to place Spanish wines, or the wines of southern
latitudes generally,on the same basis as the wines of France and
Germany,which naturally are much below the former in alcoholic
108                          Facts about Sherry.

strength; and this more especially since the British Customs
have virtually surrendered their theory that it is impossible for
any natural wine to develop more than the orthodox 26 degrees.
The tests,made imder the authority of this department, of natural
•wines sent to the International Exhibition of 1874 showed in fact
that, in addition to Spanish wines, admittedly pure samples of
the wines of Australia, Greece, and Portugal contained 30.3 to
28.4 and 31.2 degrees of proof spirit respectively. With such
results as these the existing limit of the shilling duty can scarcely
be maintaiaed.




        COirVEVINO WISE IS GOATSKISS FKOM THE MOSTILIJ. TISETABDS.




              Printed by Jos. Wade,18, TavUtock-street, Covent-garden, W.C.

                                                                              '9
THE              VICTORIA                  WINE              COMPANY.
         Head Office—DUNSTEE HOUSE, 12, MARK LANE, LONDON.
       Established 1865.                            Bankebs—Imperial Bank.
 Vaults:—11, 12, 13, U, 15, 16, 17, 18, and 19, Maek-lake ; and 37, Mihcihq-lake.
                              413, Wandsworth-rd., S.W,      COUNTRY BRANCHES.
  LONDON BRANCHES.            1, Young-street, Kensing
40, King    William-street,      ton.                  26, High-street, Bristol.
     London-bridge.           24, Hereford-road, West- 9, Spencer-pl., Blackheath.
380, Mare-st., Hackney.          bourne-grove.              High-sti'eet, Houuslow.
28, TJpper-st., Islington,    113, HoUoway-road.            4, Aiusley-terrace, High-
161 & 163, Commercial-rood. 160a, Ebury-st., Pimlico.          road, Leo.
208, Betbnal-green-road.      Percy House, Golborne-rd., 52, Oakfield-road, Penge.
125, Rye-lane, Pec^am.           Notting-hill.              53, High-st., Birmingham.
115, Hompstcad-rolid.     10, Bellbaveu-terr., Grove- Eidgway-rd., Wimbledon.
188, Walwortb-road.           road, Mile-end.         4, Station-terrace, North-
                                                          end, Croydon.
23, Higb-street, Netting- 173, King-street, Hammer-
    hill-gate.                   smitli.                    9, Commerce-terrace, High
                            Portland-place, Circus-road,     road, Tottenham.
65, Fnlliam-road.
69, Camdeu-road.                E., St. John's-wood.     33, New-road, Brighton.
63, Chalk-farm-road.        189, Seven Sisters'-road.    80,High-st.,Bromley,Kent.
99, Tachbrook st., Pimlico. 65, George-st., Portman-sq. 3,mouth-pk.-rd.,
                                                            Montague-terrace, Dort-
                                                                          Forest-hill.
53^, Kiugsland-road.        123, Kiug's-rd., Cbelsea.
131, Lupus-st., Pimlico,    49, The Grove, Stratford.    20,  Laurie-place, Kirkdale,
                                                              Sydenhom.
375, New-cross-road.        344, Cold Harbour-lane,
691, Old Kent-road.              Briston.                90, High - street. South
                                                              Norwood.
2, Bristol-gardens, Maida 122, Boundary-road, St.
     Vale.                       John's-wood.            5,High-st., New Brentford.
101, Praed-st., Paddington. 171,     Sandringham-road,   73,   George-st.. Eichmond.
16, Devonshire - terrace,     Dolston.                   169, Windmill-st., Graves-
                                                              end.
    Notting-hill-gate.                     —o—


   THE VICTORIA WINE COMPANY was established
supplying the public with pure Wines and Spirits at a very mo
'^"TtrSumption      of most
numerous but reputedly Winewealthy
                            wag then   in a and
                                   classes, 8™'!*
                                                a system               nrolits and lone?
Wine merchanta an oxceptional class of trodorfi-nomely, of large prolits ana long
            advantage of thia state,of iWngs, the ,proprietors_o^Jhe^Jicto™
 Company"saw their'way by a combinatmn
together with their connection among the            sn pp
                                                                            d the AWnel
                                                               unheard of in "RnfrTr.Ti.i
                         dtrXTwines arpr^^^^
 pr!dncing distriots, to i^trodn_co_Wme^^^^^^^^                unheard of in England,


 SHS-^'?Fort?fKvoured;^a ol/wine, rather pale in colour, and
                                                 Sc\.°eEcellent for dessert. 24s. per
 SHERRY No. 4.; fine, old, very pure, possessing a splendid flavour. 30a.
 SHERRY No. 5; magnificent, dry, Amontillado character, and for dehcacy
 SHEMY^No!7?pwrAmont1lid^^                                   d>7. old. soft, delicate.
 SHERfYVvi gold colour; of^a rich, mefiow flavour, shipped to the
 SHERRY NrS^^broTn^               i" very old, has great body and flavour, with
    C^SET-Patent^Bd^Cales for the country are charged 23. per do.en, hut the same
 ''"°Bo'S^?sTwtneanf                                       Sparkling Wines,where
               UNGOLOUR-ED, UNSWEETENED)- •
 PURE OLD BRANDY.
                         BO'TTLM) i-T' COGNiC.
       Two qualities only Mpped,'severi'and ten years ol(l;.every Ixrtile capsided
                           and Ihbelled withfull description and agev
     Messrs'. J. E'. PELLISSOlf &.Cb., In iiapprfi^                                          aiU
 coiinS?seur8:o{ Brandy desire to.TiaTe it,if possible p_ure,and not pgjas hitherto,an jmrnepse
 percentage for sweetening and colouring matter, wlupb not only, desripys tbe riue^your of
 the same;bit hides'the uSpeHectidis 6f a cbaise and a too often young spmt, whicli mates it
"                                                                 and thorough purity, and ^ they
 desire is tliat their Brandy phould be compai-ed -witli any sbmped by otber importers,
 sure that
 purely     all yrill be.
         rfleicihal       couym6ed,of
                      p-urposes it is allit3 superior
                                          thht  can beqimlity,
                                                       and hasa^o,              sjwiAg in price; afid
                                                                lonjj been desired.                ; efor
                                                                                                        .i
     The  foUowi^g     highJy  satisfactory   rexjort of this
 for its great purity, tihe flavour, and splendid aroib'a:—,
                                                              Brandy  shorud secure the cohfldence  of all
                                         "Laboratory, 7, South Square, Gray'slnn, ...
                                                                 London, W.C., August 30th,1876.
       GentlemAJt^^ b^Lve' cftre'fally'nncdysed the .sah»ple;Of .Messrs'. J; E. Pellissd'n' Co/s
 Cognab Brandy you left with us, With the folIoyvin'gTesults';—                                   o
        Specific gravity of the brandy at 60 d6g                         '                     5 §
        Specific gravity, of the distillate ...         , ... ^ . v* ■       •••'         ••• 934.2
     "This is eq^il to 87.8 per cent, of pfoo'f spirit,-or 12.2'lihderproof.
         Total solids dried at 212 deg                                      •••     ...percent. 0'25 .
         ^')|tb                                                                     •••   »»' 0i012'
         Volatiieat^ids • ...             ' ... - ...                             • ***.• '*'«
    "The analysis of the'dry sdlidsV Which amotmted to 175 grmns per gallon,'gave the
following results:—                        .                                 ^
          Tahhln                                                    •••
                                                                      grs-.-pergal. 7^
          Matters insoluble in water                                       it'      ■-7' -
       .. Ex-ti^iitive matters, soluble in-water. _   , ...        .vv« •
                                                                       i'
     " This Bra-fidy is a pure grape spirit, remorhably rich in fragrant ethers, which'impart &
 delicate aroma, at the same time greatly increasing its value .as a, diifusive .stipiulant. . The
 solid residue contains a large amount of tanhiii,^ derived from storing in oak. casks,'-which
imparts to fine old brandy one of its valuable medicinal qualities. The small anl6uht of the
re^due proves the Brandy t,obe free,from the excessive colouring and sweetening so generally
employed to cover the. coarse, harsh flavour of the raw. grain spirit now, unfortunately, ao
largely used ih adulterating BrOndy. In fact, in two wordS) it is a pure French Brandy of the
Cognac type; and will not only supply a public want now"that brandies hro so generally adul
terated, but 'will be of the greatest value to the physician in those numerous cases -where pure
French Brandy is the most useful of till medicines. •
                                       " "We are,-GentleDien, faithfully yours, -          . .
                                                 "H. C. BARTLETT. Ph.D., F.C.S;
                                                 "EDMUND B. SOUTHBY, M.E.C.S., P.C.S."
   The two qualities, "seven and teh years'oldj" (^n be'hadih c'ttS^s'of'oile' dbzeh; b'r/if
desired, a sample bottle of either.-                              - . - t-i
   For price'arid paiticUlairs apply to'the A'gents fbi^^th^ districts bA belCW.

The following Wine and Spirit Merchants are the Agents at present established:—
Messrs. Anderson & Co., 132, CheapBlde.                 Messbs. Clifford, Stoiitb, &»'Cd.,' 137;'Pbn-
Messrs. Boulton, Maynard, & Co., 2, Cowper's-             . chuxch-stve'et.
   court, Comhill. .    ,,              , , .            W- Qliilond, 50,-High-street',-'^eckliam;
Messrs.'Browiimg & Wealey,17, Spring-street,            ]^. P. Cockle, 8, Orchardrternice, Lep-^een.
   Paddingtdnj aha at Great Malvern. .                  Arthur W. Davey, 2, Twichenhanitgreen.
Messrs. Beckwith & Stevens, 17 & 18, J'ark-             The Eastern Wine Coinpahy, 2j East India-
   row, Greenwmh; Charlton/Pluinst'ead^                    road, Limehodae.     .,             .
   and Woolwich.                                        Messrs. Edwatds & Co., Broadway,- Deptfbrd.
Messrs. Baker & Oo.;:12,'DevbilBhire-sqaare.'           E. Fbrster A Co.', 289aI & 302, Regent-st..
Jame-s Baxter,106,Boundary-rd.,St.Johii'8-wd.           MesirS. George Fidler & Co., 36 & 37, Axcher-
G. W. Bishop & Co., ClafieriCe-st., Kingstoiti            . street, Westbotirne-grove.'
Messrs. Blaxall & Co., 70, Lamb's Oonduit-st.           L H. J. Eortescue,..Teddingtoq.
M.MarR- Coope & Co , 122, Pall Mall.                    Hainea, J. & F. Potter & Co., 24, High-street,
                                                           Ebnsingtoil.
Henry Hubbord,15, Great Tower-street, E.G.         Messrs. James Pettit & Go., 71, Borough;
Alfred Harvey, 105, Buckingham-palace-road.             and at Aylesbviry and Leigbton Buzzard!
Jobu Hunt, Bognor.                                 Penfold Page, South Norwood.
George Harriss, 48, Cambridge-st., Hyde-pk.        Messrs. Pelton Brothers, Croydou.
Messrs. 0. & E. Ironside, 53, Higb-street,         Messr.s. Pcet & Smith, 1 Cornwall-road, W.,
    Fulbain, & Higb-street, Nortb ibucbley.            and Acton.
Messrs Ingram & Co., 119, Queen Victoria-st.       "W. A. Pettengell & Co., 1, Royal-parade,
Messrs.H. & R. Jarvis, 192, Keutisb-town-rd.           Blackheath.
Messrs. George Kendray & Co., 19, Great            Page & Cleaver, 17, Abchurch-lane, E.G.
    Qucen-atreet, Lincoln's-inn-fieldS; and        Eowton & Co.,29, St. James-street, Brighton.
    at Bournemouth.                                Messrs. Reader & Son, 452, Commercial-
H."W. bee, 90, Stamford-stredt, Blackfriars.           road, E.
Charles Lowry, 31, Gresbam-street, E.G.            Messrs. O. C. Sargent & Co., 30, New Bridge-
Messrs. A. Leleux & Co., 11, Waterloo-place.           street, Ludgate-circus.
Light & Son, 174, 17G, & 178, Barnsbury-road.      G. Slater, 78, George-street, Richmond.
Messrs. F. Long & Co., 224, Clapbam-road,          Messrs. tellers & Cowley,10 & 12,Porchester-
Messrs. Morel Brothers, 210 <sc 211, Piccadilly,       road, Bayswater.
    and at Inverness.                              R. ??cale3, 27, Ironmonger-lane, Cheapside.
"William Morgan, Market-place, Enfield.            Charles Smith& Co.,1, Avenue-pl.,Lewisham.
Messrs. Mills & Co.,14, John-street, Minories.     "William Skelton, Long Sritton, Lincolnshire.
Messrs. W. A. Mott & Co., 12, King-street,         "W. G. Temple, 23, Denmark-hill, Camber-
    Cbeapside.                                         well.
Messrs. Mure         &   Anbertin, Hampstead       Messrs. R."Verdera & Son, 7, Jermyn-street.
    Brewery, Hampstead.                            Messrs. A. S. Verey & Co., 172, High-street,
H.P.Millan,1, Monmoutb-terrace,Uxbridge-               Notting-hill, and High-road, Khbum.
    road. Shepherd's Bush.                         Messrs. James Waters 4; Co., 25, Lawrence
Messrs. A. P. Maynard & Go., London-road,             Ponntney-lane, E.G.
    Forest-bill. .                                 Messrs. Heniy Wilcox & Co., 14, Great Win
James R. Palmer, 321, Mare-street, Hackney.           chester-street, E.G.
    The many highly satisfactory Press Reports will be sent free by post on application to the
above Agents, or to the
             LONDON OFFICE, 18, BILLITEB STKEET, E.G.,
where also Applications for Agencies will be received.




   SAUMTJE                                  CHAMPAGNE.


           LOUIS DUVAU AINE,
      PROPRIETOR OF THE CHATEAU DE VARRAINS.
                     Carte d'or. Extra superior quality.
                         „          d'argent. Extra quality.
                         „ BlancEe. Superior quality;
                         „          Rose. Ordinary quality.


     OFFICE, 2, MIMCING LANE, LONDON, E.C.




                             • 1.   ■'                                                       '.ti
                         ■                                                                   vflw
