   ^        [Entered AT StATioNERs’ Hall.]

iRINKS,'& HOW TO MAKE THEM.
                      YEATMAN’S
GAL I S A YIN E
                           COCKTAIL

                The Friece of Fiok-me^ups.




                     luus LIQUEUR BITTERS/
         An Appetiser, Ah Exhilaraht,
       and a Constitntional S>enoyatot.
                           PREPARED BY
                                         & do.,
Farveyors       to   the   Queen and the Hovernhient.
   '   \    :    119, NEW BOND STREET.
   t       wellcomeF^
             LIBRARY
       Gail.©rail, Collections:


            I      7—




22503111370
                    YEATMAN’S

  CALISAYINE
     COCKTAIL
               BITTERS,
 The Prince of Pick-me-ups.
 Sold by all Wine Merchants, Grocers, &c., in
        Bottles, 3/6 ; and i doz., 40/-.


       YE ATMAN & Co,'
                    Chief   Office :

119, NEW BOND STREET,
                    Manufactory :

4 TO 11, LANCASHIRE_
--i
                   PLACE "
^ee on each Label                 '        . '

    Signatme

                              %




           And on each Capsule    ^^COcm^IL^\
                                  \ BITTERS. /
                YEATMAN’S
  C AllS A YIN E
                     COCKTAIL

             BITTERS.
A FEW   forms are compiled in this little pamphlet
   for making drinks of different kinds, some of Ame¬
rican origin. As a rule, we folks of England know but
little of a variety of compounds^ which form deli¬
cious beverages, and possess the charm of novelty—thus
relieving the monotony of the few varied drinks now
known to all. Nothing so quickly restorative and reno¬
vating, to the system fatigued by late hours and a little
dissipation, can be obtained to equal a Cocktail—whether
it be of spirit or champagne; and the tonic bracing effect
of the Calisayine Bitters to the jaded stomach and
wearied nerve is immediately perceptible. The Cocktail
is of comparatively recent introduction, and, when made
of good tonic bitters, is certainly the prince of pick-me-
ups. As a morning cordial and corrective, and as an
appetiser, taken shortly before meals, it is infallible ; not
alone this, but it is an aid to digestion. In the manufac¬
ture of Yeatman’s Calisayine Bitters the choicest selected
tonic barks are used. The Bitters are made under the
personal supervision of Mr. Yeatman, who for two score
years has been engaged in the professions of medicine
and chemist I y.
                             2
   “ I know of no nutritive and bracing tonic, ” says
Dr. Seguin, “of so excellent a character as Yeatman’s
Calisayine—so named, I conjecture, from the Calisaya
bark, being known as the best of the Peruvian family of
barks. I consider these Bitters, when combined with
wine or spirit—or, in fact, with water only—to be a
healthful tonic to the debilitated stomach, the relaxed
nerve, and the whole system. I have suggested the use
of them to patients of both sexes, and irequently recom¬
mended them for children who wanted ‘ tone, ’ always
with good effect. ”


   A speciality of Yeatman’s Calisayine Bitters, and
which no other bitter possesses is its liqueur character,
and it may be drank as a liqueur. The intensity of the
bitter principle is in part disguised, and this not at the
expense of the tonic powers, for this preparation is
peculiarly rich in the possession of a large percentage of
the medicinal properties of the finest of many barks, and
forms a delicious tonic liqueur cordial, and health
nourisher.


  The Calisayine Bitters are recommended by a host of
the medical profession for the use of delicate ladies and
children, and are guaranteed to be perfectly harmless.

     I have tried your Calisayine Bitters, ” writes an
eminent London Physician, “and think highly of them.
They form an elegant tonic. The well-known good
effects of Calisaya as a tonic are appreciated ; but in
your compound you have so happily combined aromatics,
&c., that,* to my mind the most delightful tonic cordial
ever introduced is discovered—fascinating to the palate, ”
&c., &c.

                            3
   “Ex-M.P. ” writes :—“ Your Bitters prevent sea-sick¬
ness. I crossed the Channel last week—rather rough,
too, and, for the first time in my life of crossing, was
free from mal de mer. I took a cocktail, of gin and
your Bitters, when I felt symptoms of the first hiccough
(we all know what that signals). Let me tell you, by the
bye, I added a good squeeze of lemon juice to my cock¬
tail.

        I’ve crossed the Channel many times—
           Each time made contribution
        Unto the crested waves that rolled,
           And heaved my constitution ;


       “ But now I fear no more the roll,
           Or undulating motion.
         Of any screw *or paddle boat
           That plies upon the ocean.


      ‘ ‘ Give me a Cocktail made of gin
             And Calisayine Bitters ;
          I’ll have no fear of ‘ Steward—here !’
             Or any other critters.”

   Dr. W. E. Stone writes :—Your Bitters (appro¬
priately named, by an invented word, ‘ Calisayine ’)
certainly possess in a marked manner tonic and, if I may
use the expression, toning properties. We of the pro¬
fession know Calisaya to be the best of Peruvian bark
tonics; and your combination of other ingredients evi¬
dently tends, while making a very pleasant compound,
to add materially to the acting and active principles of
the bark.    I cheerfully recommend the use of your
Bitters.”

                            4
   A pearl, dissolved in rosy wine, by Anthony was
deemed libation fit for beauteous Cleopatra. Had Yeat-
man’s Calisayine Cocktail Bitters been at that time a
boon existing, Anthony might have saved the sacrifice of
a, valuable pearl, and Cleopatra enjoyed a finer drink
than any rosy wine could yield.


No, L—To make a Bottle of Cock¬
   tail, for Travelling, Boating,
   Fishing, Shooting, Fic-nic, and
   other Parties
     “ If I had a thousand sons, the first human principle
   I would teach them should be to forswear thin pota¬
   tions, and to addict themselves to sack.”—Shake-
   SPERE—King Henry IF., iv. 3.

  To a wine bottle, half or two-thirds full of brandy, gin,
whiskey, or rum, put a half wineglassful of Yeatman’s
Calisayine Bitters, and fill with water. When variety is
wanted, use in addition a liqueur-glassful of Maraschi¬
no, Curacoa, Noyeau, or Chartreuse. A novel feature of
Yeatman’s Calisayine Cocktail Bitters, and which no
other bitter possesses, is, they require no sugar when
used for cocktails. This is a great boon to travellers.
  Note—The addition of a squeeze of lemon juice to a
cocktail is an improvement.

            No. 2.—Gin Cocktail.
    “ Come, gentlemen, I hope we shall drink down all
  unkindness.’’—ilferr'j/ Wives of JKindsor, i. i.
   Put a half teaspoonful or more of Calisayine Bitters into
a tumbler; add a wine-glass of gin, a little water, and, if
approved of, some ice. Mix well. This may be varied

                             5
by adding a small quantity of any liqueur and a little
lemon peel.
  N.B.—If preferred sweeter, a little sugar or syrup
may be added ; and syrup of raspberry, or any kind of
syrup, for variety, may be used in all kinds of cocktails.
  The following, and one or two other forms for drinks,
we have taken from an excellent little book, named
 “American and other Drinks,” compiled by Mr. Leo
Engel, of the Criterion, published by Tinsley Brothers.


          No. 3.—Fancy Cocktail.
                   {Use a small tumbler.)
     “ I’ll drink to her as long as there is a passage in my
  throat.”—Twelfth Night, i. 3.
  This drink may be made the same way as gin, brandy,
or whiskey cocktail, and strained into a fancy wine-glass,
a piece of lemon-peel placed on the top, and a straw¬
berry ; the edge of glass moistened with lemon juice,
and dipped in powdered sugar.


          No. 4_Brandy Cocktail.
                   {Use a small tumbler.)
     “ O knight thou lack’st a cup of canary ; when did
  I see thee so put down ?”—Twelfth Night, i. 3.
  A half teaspoonful or more of Calisayine Bitters, wine¬
glass two-thirds full of brandy (or full, if preferred), a little
water, squeeze of lemon, some ice ; mix well, and strain.

        No. 6.—Japanese Cocktail.
                       {Use a tumbler.)
      “ Drink a health to me; for I must hence, and fare¬
 well to you all.”—Taming the Shrew, iii. 2.

                                6
   One tablespoonful of Orgeat syrup, a teaspoonful of
Calisayine Bitters, wine-glass of brandy, a couple of
pieces of lemon-peel; fill tumbler one-third with ice, and
stir well with a spoon.

         No. 6.—Jersey Cocktail.
                     (Use a tumbler.)
     “And when she drinks, against her lips I bob.”—
  Midsummer Night’s Dream, ii. i.
   One teaspoonful Calisayine Bitters, fill tumbler with
ice and cyder, mix well, and place on top lemon peel.


          No. 7.—Brandy Crusta.
    “ Dost thou think because thou art virtuous there
  shall be no more cakes and ale?”—Twelfth Night, ii. 3.
  A crusta is made in the same way as a fancy cocktail,
and may be formed of gin, whiskey, or any kind of spirit,
with a little lemon juice and a small lump of ice added.
Mix all in a tumbler, take a fancy coloured wine-glass,
pare half a lemon in one long narrow strip, fit it into
wine-glass, and pour crusta in, having previously moist¬
ened edge of glass with lemon juice, and dipped in sugar.

     . No. 8.—Whiskey Cocktail.
                     (Use a tumbler.)
     “ Three times they breath’d, and three times did
  they drink.”—King Henry IV., i. 3.
  Half a teaspoonful or more Calisayine Bitters, wine-glass
Irish or Scotch whiskey, a piece of lemon peel, fill one-
third full of ice, shake all well together, and strain into a
wine-glass. A squeeze of lemon juice may be added, and
at times, by way of variety, a little of any kind of liqueur.

                             7
     No. 9.—Champagne Cocktail.
    “ The red wine must first rise in their fair cheeks,
  my lord; then we shall have them talk us to silence.”
  King Henry VIII., I, 4.
   In making champagne cocktail (to my thinking the
king of drinks) the high-priced brands of champagne are
not needed—a Saumur, at 24s. per doz., will answer the
purpose equally well. I quote from Sam Weller : “ It is
the seasoning which makes the pie—mutton, beef, or
vealso it is the Calisayine Bitters that make any brand
of Champagne a pleasure to the palate.
   A friend of mine noted for his excellent dinners, and
the fact that at the table all were invariably lively and
chatty, even before the soup was removed, told me his
secret was to have handed to each guest, before dinner
commenced, a champagne cocktail! “ This,” said he,
 “ not only has a happy influence on the brain and tongue,
but appetises my guests—and don’t the ladies like it!
My dinners were always done justice to, and I had the
pleasing knowledge that ‘ good digestion would wait on
appetite,’ by means of the Calisayine Bitters.”
    Put half a teaspoonful of Calisayine Bitters to a glass
of champagne and a little ice; or, if for a number, put
in a jug two dessert-spoonfuls of Calisayine Bitters for
each bottle of champagne, and some ice. In each glass
put a piece of lemon peel, or a strawberry. A little
 Maraschino may be added.


       No. 10.—Stars and Stripes.
                   (For a Pousse Cafe'.)
     You shall not choose but drink before you go. ’—
  Taming the Shrew, v. i.
   Pour gently down the side of a liqueur glass, first one

                             8
part of Calisayine Bitters ; then, with the glass sloped,
carefully down the side a second part Maraschino; lastly,
a third part brandy.     Hold up to the light, you’ll see
stripes ; drink, and you’ll see stars.


                        No. 11.
        [After Coffee, the followvng i& charming.)
    “ Thou art a scholar ; let us therefore eat and drink.
  Marian, I say !—a stoop of wine.”—Twelfth Night, ii. 3.
   A liqueur glass, equal parts, all well blended : Cali¬
sayine Bitters, Curacoa, Maraschino, and brandy. De¬
lightfully refreshing to the palate.
   The above may be varied by using any liqueur, such as
Chartreuse, Kummel, Noyeau, Anniseed, Benedictine.


      No. 12.—Sherry and Bitters.
    “ Faith, sir, we were carousing till the second cock ;
  and drink, sir, is a great provoker of three things.”—
  Macbeth, ii. 3.
   Add a quarter of a teaspoonful or more, according to
taste, of Calisayine Bitters to a wine-glass of sherry, and
put in a piece of ice, if desired.


           No. 13.—Bum Punch.
    “ Go, brew me a pot of sack, finely.’’—ilferry Wives
  of Windsor, iii. 5,
   Equal parts Santa Cruz rum and Jamaica rum (or
Jamaica rum alone), add a dash or two Calisayine Bitters,
six parts water, lemon and sugar to suit taste.


                            9
        No. 14.—Whiskey Punch.
   “ I think I shall drink in pipe-wine first with him.”
  —Merry Wives of Windsor, iii. 3.
  Take a wineglassful either Scotch or Irish whiskey, a
few dashes Calisayine Bitters, and add to half a tumbler
of hot water, in which a little sugar has been dissolved,
and a slice of lemon placed on top. If cold punch is
wanted, use cold water.
  [Gin and brandy punches may be made in the same
way, either hot or cold.]



            No. 15—Claret Cup.
    “Good faith, this same young sober-blooded boy
  doth not love me, nor a man cannot make him laugh ;
  but that’s no marvel—he drinks no wine.”—King
  Henry IV., iv. 3.
  A wine-glass of brandy, liqueur-glass each Calisayine
Bitters and either Curacoa or Maraschino, juice of a
lemon, a few lumps of sugar rubbed on the rind of the
lemon, two or three slices of cucumber, one bottle of
claret, one bottle of Taunus water, and ice.



         No. 16.—Champagne Cup.
    “ Go, fetch me a quart of sack : put toast in it.”—
   Merry Wives of Windsor, iii. 5.
   Wineglassful brandy, two tablespoonfuls Maraschino,
 one tablespoonful Calisayine Bitters, sprig of verbena,
 one bottle champagne, one bottle Taunus water ; ice.


                            io
            No. 17.—Mint Julep.
     {Jule'ps may he maie of any hind of spirit.)
       Nay, daughter, carry the wine in ; we’ll drink
  within,”—Merry Wives of Windsor, i. i.
   Put into a tumbler a dozen or so sprigs of mint, a tea¬
spoonful of powdered sugar, a little water, and some
chipped ice. Well bruise mint, and add_ a wine-glass ot
brandy, with a dash or two Calisayine Bitttes. Reverse
the mint, putting stalks downward ; drink through a
straw.

          No. 18.—Brandy Smash.
    “ Tell not me ! When the butt is out we will drink
  water: not a drop before.”—Tempest, iii. 2.
   Three or four sprigs of mint, two teaspoonfuls of
powdered sugar, tablespooniul of water ; put m a tumbler
half full of shaved ice, smash well together, and add a
wine-glassful of any spirit, to which a dash or two ot
Calisayine Bitters has been added; drink through a
straw. On top of drink any portion of fruit m season
may be placed.

         No. 19.—Sherry Cobbler.
     “ Farewell, my hearts ; I will to my honest knight,
   Falstaff, and drink canary with him.—Merry Wives of
   Windsor, iii. 2.
   Two wine-glasses of sherry, dessert-spoonful of pow¬
 dered sugar, two slices of orange, in a tumbler filled
 with shaved ice ; dash of Calisayine Bitters, shake well.
 Drink through a straw.                            1*4^,+
   [Cobblers may be made as above with any kind ot
 wine or spirks.]

                             II
No. 20.—Whiskey, Gin, or Brandy
            Nectar.
    “Like lime-twigs set to catch my winged soul!—
  Give me some drink.”—King Henry VI., 2P., iii. 3.
   Put in a soda-water tumbler a wineglassful of either
spirit, with half a teaspoonful or more of Calisayine
Bitters, a slice or two of either orange or lemon; add a
bottle of lemonade, and some ice. This is a delicious
and refreshing drink.
   [N.B.—Calisayine Cocktail Bitters added to any kind
of aerated or mineral waters is excellent.]

No. 21.—Mr.Mantalini’s “Demnition
          Delicious.”
    “And hath sent your worship a morning’s draught
  of sack.”—Merry Wives of Windsor, ii. 2.
  Take a tablespoonfid of lime-juice cordial, add half
a teaspoonful or more of Calisayine Bitters, and fill
tumbler with seltzer, or any kind of aerated or mineral
water; put in a piece of ice. A cooling and refreshing
summer beverage.


No. 22.— Ale Cup. —“Mr. Weller’s
           Weneration.”
   “ The white sheet bleaching on the hedge—
     With hey ! the sweet bii'ds—O how they sing !—
   Doth set my pugging teeth on edge ;
     For a quart of ale is a dish for a king.”
                                     Winter’s Tale, iv. 2.
   Into a quart po" grate some ginger, add two teaspoon¬
fuls Calisayine bitters, in a glass of gin, then a pint of
ale heated, and two teaspoonfuls of sugar, to be drunk
while it is foaming.
                            12
No. 23—Mr. Micawber’s “ Morning
           Magnet.’’
    “Adversity’s sweet rnilk, philosophy, to comfort
  thee.”—Borneo and Juliet, iii. 3.
  Ini o a tumbler put a teaspoonful or more of Calisayine
Bitters, a wineglassful of Jamaica rum, and fill up with
millc, which may be sweetened, if preferred. An excel
lent nourishing drink for early birds, especially W'her
going bathing.


     No. 24,—The Pickwick Club
            Constitutional.”
     “ Give me an egg, nuncle, and I’ll give thee two
  crowns.—What two crowns shall they be?—why, after
  I have cut the egg i’ the middle, and eat up the meat,
  the two crowns of the egg.”—King Lear, i. 4.
  Beat the yolk of two eggs well in a basin ; add to this
—first, one pint of boiled milk, with a few lumps of
sugar dissolved in it, and then one pint of whiskey, with
a tablespoonful of Calisayine Bitters in it. Serve in
claret glasses. A nourishing stimulant, excellent after a
day of fatigne, and just as good after a day of idleness.


No. 25.—Egg Nog.—Newman Nogg’s
          ” Nonpariel.”
    “That’s meat and drink to me now. ”—Merry Wives
  of Windsor, i. i.
  Yolk of three eggs, four ounces of powdered loaf
sugar, beat well together ; add a gill of brandy or
Jamaica rum, with a tablespoonful Calisayine Bitters
mixed in either and a wine-glass of Madeira, or brown

                           13
sherry. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and
beat with the mixture ; then stir in three pints of milk.
  This is a delicious and very nourishing drink—not
heating or over stimulating. It forms the Christmas and
new year’s bowl of the Southern States of America. Can
be iced, if wished, with a little grated nutmeg put on top.

No.     26.—Mrs. Nickleby’s “Nerve
             Nourisher.”
  “And sometimes make a drink to bear no barm.”—
  Midsummer Wight's Dream, ii. i.
  Put in a tumbler a teaspoonful or more of Calisayine
Bitters, add one third (or one half) milk, and fdl with
soda water. Ice can be added, if wished.
   Most of our physicians recommend this drink.      It
forms a nutrient tonic.

   Mrs. M. E. L., of South Kensington, writes :—“ For
debility of the stomach, and other existing troubles in¬
cidental to indigestion, our family physician ordered
milk and soda water as a beverage, but it at times troubled
digestion.    A friend suggested the addition of Calisayine
Bitters, and (after its trial being permitted by my pro¬
fessional atte ndant) it was adopted. The effect was most
satisfactory ; the tonic influence of the Bitters not only
assisted the easy digestion of the milk, but afforded me
a charming beverage and stimulated appetite. My little
daughter has also benefited by its use.”


No,      27.—Calisayine Cream                      Pearl
                  Syrup.
   “The pearl that pleased your Empress.”—Titus An-
 dronicus, i. 2.

                             14
   Loaf sugar half a pound, milk one pint, boil, and
when cold strain, and add half a wine glassful of Cali-
sayine Bitters. Put in a tumbler one-third of this and
fill with soda, or seltzer, or Apollinasis water, or any
aerated or mineral water.
    This delicious tonic syrup should always be kept at
hand. It renders a tumbler of water at once a delight¬
ful thirst quencher, and, while fascinating the palate,
tones the stomach and system, which is always moie oi
less wearied where thirst exists ; and to the many who
 object to water alone as a beverage will be a boon.
 Ladies and children will obtain a nourishing tonic. All
 our lady friends are charmed with it.

No. 28. — Calisayine Cream Pearl
Syrup, made with. Condensed. IVtilk.
           Special for Yachts, Steamships, ^c.
   Take condensed milk two tablespoonfuls dissolved in
 half a pint of water, and add half a wmeglassful of
 Calisayine Bitters,  Use a iMne lassful ot this m k
 tumbler of water, or any kind of mrated watei. O
 take two teaspoonfuls of condensed milk dissolved in a
 teaspoonful of Calisayine Bitters, and add to a tumbler
 of water or serated water.

    No.    29.—Elysium Eong                  Drink
        “ Lengthened sweetness long drawn out.
   Cream Pearl        Syrup. — A wineglassful         to   a
 tumble of water ; ice if desired.

 No. 30.—The Templar’s Tea Nectar.
 “Wil’t please you taste of what is htre.'’—Tempest, iii. 2.
   Wine glassful of Calisayine Cream Pearl Syrup put in
 a tumbler of cold tea, slice of lemon, and ice.
                             15
No. 31. — Temperance Tea Punch,
   “Caudle, thy morning taste to cure.”—Timon of
Athens, iv. 3.
   A teaspoonful of Calisayine Bitters; tumbler halt
full of milk ; fill with cold tea, sweetened if preferred.


            No. 3S.—Tea Punch.
   “ Has a taste as sweet as any cordial.”— Winter^s
Tale, V. 3.
  Wineglassful Calisayine Cream Pearl Syrup, table-
spoonful brandy, or any kind of spirits, or sherry, or
Madeira, tumbler of cold tea, two slices of lemon or
orange—ice. Hot punch same way, using hot tea.


         No. 33.—Mississippi Punch.
   “Inventions to delight the taste.”—Pericles, i. 4.
   Half teaspoonful Calisayine Bitters, wine-glass brandy,
half wine-glass Jamaica rum, half wine-glass whiskey,
half ditto water, one-and-a-half tablespoonful sugar,
quarter of a large lemon ; fill tumbler with shaved ice,
put on top small pieces of orange and berries in season;
drink through a straw.


           No. 34.—Roman Punch.
   “ By my troth, most pleasant.”—Love's Labour Lost,
iv. I.
   Tablespoonful of sugar, ditto raspbeny syrup, tea¬
spoonful Calisayine Bitters, wineglass Jamaica mm,
half ditto brandy, juice of half a lemon, fill with shaved
ice, dash with port wine.


                           16
  No. 35.—The Ladies’ Thimbleful.
       “ Wil’t please you taste of this ?’~Tempest.
   Ore-third each brandy, Calisayine Bitters, Curacoa.
 Itns :s a delicious French cafe drink, and so is Brandy
 bcAFiA; ha.lf brandy, half Maraschino, two dashes
 Calisayine Bitters.

      A^ood Sherris sack hath a twofold operation in it.
 It asceids me into the brain ; dries me there all the
 foolish, and dull, and crudy vapors which environ it •
 makes It apprehensive, quick, forgetive, full of nimble’
 heiy, anc^ delectable shapes ; which delivered o’er to the
 voice (the tongue), which is the birth, becomes excellent
 wit. —Ktig Henry IF., iv. 3.

  T •                      stimulating influence, &c.), says
  Liebig, “a a means of refreshment, where the powers
  of life are exhausted—of' giving animation and energy
 where man las to struggle with days of depression—as
 a means of (orrection and compensation where mispro-
 portion occui^ in nutrition, and the organism is deranged
 in its operatiins, and as a means of protection against
 transient orgajic disturbances, wine is surpassed by no
product of natire or art,” But even better than wine,
  ora reason tc be presently stated, spirit and water, or
wine with Cali^yine Bitters added, is better than wine
or spirits alone, for the reason that it frequently happens
aftei the stimiiating influence of wine has subsided
depression follove; this is entirely avoided when these
   itters are added, as from their tonic effect the nervous
tone is left strengtiened.

   As a cordial stomachic and delightful liqueur, and
for oppressiOT a/tei meals, indigestion, or indiscretion
m eating. Take a liqueur glass of Calisayine Bitters.

                           17
                   Wim0nials.
   From ‘‘The Lancet.”—June 14th, 1879.
  “ Calisayine Cocktail Bitters.         (Yeatman & Co.,
119, New Bond-street.)—This is a powerfully aromatic
and agreeable tonic.     It is founded, of course, on the
well-known Calisaya bark, but is artfully comaounded.
Many recipes for its use are given, and those that we
have tried certainly yielded pleasant drinks.”

    From “The Times.”—October 1, 1879.
   Yeatman’s Calisayine Bitters are superior to others
exhibited at the Agricultural Hall.      Theje delicious
liqueur bitters were approved of by all who fested them,
and the syrup made with this and milk, conbined with
soda-water, was the sensational drink of the exhibition.


  “Morning Advertiser,” October 1, 1879.
   Passing to the wholesale department of tie Exhibition,
where the tasting stalls are situate, the frst that greets
the visitor on entrance is a very suggesive one. Al¬
though being at the beginning would se;m to be at the
very end of the show, for it is the establsment for what
is termed the “ Prince of pick-me-ups,’ This produc¬
tion consists of what is certainly a vey pleasant and,
as we understand, wholesome productim, known by the
very Yankee-sounding title of Yeatnan’s ‘ Cocktail
Bitters.” The priority claimed for than is that they are
not only pleasant to the taste, but an one of the finest
possible tonics, the cocktail bitters l)eing selected from
the choicest tonic barks. These bitters are applicable to
every kind of drink, and administered in milk form a
most delicious beverage.
                            18
From “The Licensed Victuallers’ Guardian.”
            May 24th, 1879.
  “Cocktail Bitters.—A very elegant preparation,
under the name of Yeatman’s Calisayine Cocktail
Bitters, has recently been brought before the notice o{
public, and we have no doubt, from the intrinsic merits of
the proiction, that it will very speedily work its way to
the front, Licensed victuallers will find these Bitters,
which are prepared by Messrs. Yeatman & Co., II9>
 New Boad - street, Purveyors to the Queen and the
Government, very useful in making up of the various
kinds of ' Cocktail ’ now so much in vogue. A speci¬
ality of tfese Bitters, and which no other bitter pos¬
sesses, is it? liqueur character and it may be drunk as
a liqueur.”

      From “Sketch.”—June 14th, 1879.
   “ With the approach of hot weather, nothing is more
desirable thar, a cool and refreshing drink. For those
who desire a tonic, an appetiser, a nerve nutrient, an ex-
hilarant, and a constitutional renovator, the Calisayine
Bitters, manufactured by Messrs. Yeatman & Co.,
Purveyors to tht Queen and the Government, 119, New
Bond-street, London, W., will be found a delicious
beverage. Thej) are recommended by prominent phy¬
sicians, and will be found delicious in mixture with
spirits, champagne, or sherry; while a teaspoonful in a
tumbler of water, or milk and soda-water, makes a
most cooling, tonic, and refreshing beverage.”

From “ The Sunday Times.”—May 25th, 1879.
   ‘•Yeatman’s Caiisayine Bitters.—The           new de¬
scription. of Cocktal Bitters prepared by Messrs.
Yeatman & Co., and called Calisayine, may be recom¬
mended as a pleasant, effective, and perfectly safe tonic.
It is manufactured of tre choicest kinds of barks, and
                               19
may be advantageously used in combination with wine,
spirits, or mineral waters.


From “ Land and Water.”—May 24tli, 1879.
   “Summer Drinks.—When the thermometer is at
90 deg. in the shade, one’s balance at the bankers very
low, one’s wife at the sea side, and the nurse and all the
children at home, a pick-me-up is most certainly required.
Some people take their sherry and bitters, and others
have recourse to the gin bottle, temperance folks go in
for shrub and peppermint,       Messrs. Yeatmm and Co.
Purveyors to the Queen and the Government, have in¬
troduced a patent and peculiar pick-me-up. bearing the
technical name of Calisayine {Anglice, cocktail), for
forming different drinks. It is excellent ti milk also.^’


From ‘‘The Caterer and Hotel Proprietors’
        Gazette.”~Juue 7th, 1879.
    Calisayine     Cocktail      Bitters.—This   prepara¬
tion, introduced by Messrs. Yeatman & Co,, Purveyors to
the Queen and the Government, make> a capital morn¬
ing ‘ Pick-me-up,’ and is equally grateful blended with
the cunningly concocted ‘ drinks ’ vhich we owe to
American inventiveness.     The bittei principle is sup¬
plied by the most aromatic of the quiiine-yielding barks,
so that the preparation possesses tone viidues of a high
order. It is not overpoweringly bitter, and its aromatic,
pleasant taste makes it acceptable when taken alone as
a liqueur. In a pamphlet entitlel ‘ Drinks, and How
to make Them,’ Messrs, Yeatnan give some good
recipes for Cocktails, Cups, anc such like concoctions,
in which the ‘ Calisayine Bitters ’ figure as an essential
ingredient. These compounds will scarcely fail to meet
the approval of the connoisseur in curious drinks. As
                            2C
an early morning drink, we have tried a mixture of milk
and soda-water, in equal parts, flavoured with a soup con
of Calisayine Bitters, and the experiment occasions no
regret.”

          From “Sketch.”—June, 1879.
   “Town Talk.—The talk of town, for the moment,
is Calisayine Bitters; and talking of talk, if towns
could talk, what town would mention a celebrated pick-
me-up? Why—Calais, sayin’ ‘Bitters.’
   “At the clubs, the talk is of Cocktails and Cocktail
Bitters. In the lobby of the House, I heard a talk last
night as to why Mr. Pickwick and Weller (on the
 label) should have a frog as company.          Taper told
Tadpole a Darwinism, said one, ‘ As the tadpole in the
waterdom of frogdom wore a tail, it was proper that
the ‘ survival of the fittest,’ when it attained frog ‘ evo¬
lution ’ should have a tail and a ‘ Cocktail ’ at that 1’
 Another suggested that the Bitters, like unto the frog,
 would make its way by ‘ leaps and bounds.’
    “Anyway, it is a delicious preparation, and a first-
rate pick-me-up. Messrs. Yeatman, of 119, New Bond-
street, have given society the best tonic bitters ever
 invented, and deserve success.”


From Dr. I. Z., 80, Brook Street, Grosvenor
                Square, W,
“ Messrs. Yeatman & Co.,
       ‘ Gentlemen,
                      “ Your ‘ Calisayine Bitters’ are cer¬
tainly a charmingly flavoured aromatic tonic and a good
appetiser.     With champagne, wine, of spirits, a tonic
exhilarant is at hand, and combined with milk and soda-
water, an excellent tonic nutrient is formed. As a diges¬
tive liqueur, after meaD, it is admirable, and the exist-
                             21
ence in your combination of Calisaya Bark, aromatics,
&c, will doubtless attract the commendable attention of
the profession.
                     “ Yours truly,
                                             “L Z.”

    From “Industry.”—August 15, 1879.“
   “ Pick-me-Ups.”—One of the most dangerous, and
yet wide-spread customs of the present day is the
almost universal and growing habit of drinking bitters
Take a seat for a couple of hours in a West-end bar
affected by the sallow youths of the city when ‘ ‘ seeing
life,” and out of every six glasses of malt liquor you
will see that five at least contain “ bitter,” Bitter, and
nothing but bitter, morning, noon, and night, is the
beverage of these youths, because, forsooth, they con¬
sider it “ good form.” But eventually a fearful Nemisis
reckons with the offenders, and dyspepsia, want of appe¬
tite, general lassitude, and disinclination for business are
chronically manifested. What is the consequence ? The
unfortune sufferer leaves home in the morning having
been unable to touch his possibly unappetising break¬
fast, and, before he is fit to make an attempt at work,
has to r esort to the assistance of a potion skilfully con¬
cocted for these occasions, and known as a “pick-me-
up.” Now, there are pick-me-ups and pick-me-ups ;
from the “ greased lightning ” of the Southern States to
the simple “gin and bitters” of London. Until lately,
the only variety of bitters that one could procure at an
average London bar were the “ orange ” and the “ An¬
gostura ” bitters—the names of which show their com¬
position—and, at some few houses, the “ Dutch ” bit¬
ters. These latter are principally composed of gentian.
 But the habitual use of either “Dutch” or “Angos¬
 tura” is injurious, producing the effects we have briefly
 mentioned as following the excessive and long-con-
                             22
jtinued use of bitter beer. And, for most men, orange
 bitters are too insipid. Fortunately, Messrs. Yeatman
 & Co., of New Bond-street, have introduced a new bit¬
 ter, which, while being so deliciously compounded that
 it may be taken alone as a liqueur, may yet be made the
 basis of a variety of charming drinks, alike grateful to
 the palate and beneficial to the stomach The com¬
 pound known as the “Calisayine Cocktail Bitters”
 is styled by its inventor “the prince of pick, me-ups
 and there is no doubt, from the known composition of
 the liquid, that it is so. The basis is the Calisayine
  bark, the most effective and tonic of the Peruvian barks ;
  and, so far from injuring the digestion, weakening the
  stomach, and debilitating the nervous centres—as do
  ordinary bitters—the Calisayine not merely assists diges¬
  tion at the time, but tend to strengthen it for the future,
  as well as to give tone to the system generally. They are
  called “cocktail” bitters, because they are the finest bitters
  that can be used in the compounding of that most super¬
  lative of drinks.     Nothing so quickly restorative and
  renovating to the system, fatigued by late hours and dis¬
  sipation, can be obtained to equal a cocktail—whether of
  spirit or champagne ; and the tonic bracing effects of
  the Calisayine Bitters to the jaded stomach and shaken
  nerve is immediately perceptible. Messrs, Yeatman
  & Co. issue a little brochure containing many admir¬
  able receipts of cocktails, cups, punches, and fancy
  drinks, in all of which the Calisayine may be used
   with advantage. We cannot forbear putting our readers
   in possession of one of these—a pousse caffe, called
   “Stars and Stripes.” and which, if they try, they will
   thank us for. The instructions are as follows ; “ Pour
   gently down the side of a liqueur glass, first, one part
   of Calisayine bitteis ; then, with the glass sloped, care,
   fully down the side a second part Maraschino; lastly-
   a third part brandy. Hold up to the light, you’ll see
   stripes ; drink, and you’ll see stars. ”
           From the ‘‘European Mail.”
    It is claimed, and we think justly, by Messrs. Yeat-
 naan & Co._, of New Bond-street, that their Calisayine
 Cocktail Bitters are superior to anything of the kind
 ever made. That great morning reviver, the'‘Cock¬
 tail, ’ depends on the bitters quite as much as on the
 purity of the wine or the spirit with which it is made.
 Messrs. Yeatman’s bitters, specially prepared under the
 peponal supervision of the senior of the firm, are made
principally from the Calisaya bark.      The morning cock¬
tail as a corrective for late hours, and “ mildly scooping
it over night, is the infallible remedy, from the North-
West Territory to the Levee of New Orleans—nay, even
from the liquorless Mayne to the Cliff House near the
Golden Gate ; and this matutinal medicine is getting
]apidly acclimatised wherever the English language is
spoken, ^ In addition to the introduction of really high-
class tonic bitters for cock-tails, Messrs. Yeatman de¬
monstrate in a most handy little pamphlet how these
cock-tails should be made, A careful perusal of these
recipes would, we are convinced, bread up the Good
Templar, and possibly destroy the inflexible resolution
of the great Sir Wilfred himself.       The very titles and
Shakesperian quotations which head each of these mar¬
vellously clear directions how to manufacture cool
refreshing drinks are equal in thirst-provoking powers
to the famous “Bolony sausage,” which Petroleum V,
Nasby always carried as an “ inciter.” Drinks are made
not only pleasant, but healthy, by means of Messrs.
Yeatman s Calisayine Bitters.But we have said
enough, and in calling attention to these bitters, have
done our duty.

      From the “British Trade Journal.”
  Calisayine Bitters. — The Americans have intro¬
duced the “Britisher” to several new forms of drink
                            24
and novel combinations of the forms already known.
The bitters known under the above title are a new
introduction of Messrs. Yeatman. The total abstainer
can conscientiously, and the heavy drinker can bene¬
ficially, use the bitters as a pleasant restorative. Milk,
tea, syrups, and bitters for the one ; spirits or wine and
bitters for the other.    Of the former combinations the
milk and bitters is a most agreeable and reviving
drink, harmless for all.

           From “La Mode Illnstree.”
    In Yeatman’s Calisayine Cocktail Bitters my readers
will find a valuable and unique preparation, and one
 which, more especially to those who have accustomed
 themselves to sal volatile, will be peculiarly acceptable.
 By strengthening the nerves and giving tone to the
 stomach it will remove all depression. It may 1 e taken
 in cold water, or, like other bitters, added to wine or
 spirits, and is agreeable.   It is named after a bark
 called Calisaya, of a kind similar to Peruvian Bark,
 and, like that, possesses exclusive advantages with the
 addition of greater palatableness. In calling the Cali¬
 sayine Bitters “ The Prince of Pick-me-ups,” Messrs.
Yeatman may be accredited with being modest, as it
may be truly called the “ King ” of them. It is manu¬
factured solely by Messrs. Yeatman & Co,, of Yeast
and Currie Powder notoriety, at 119, New Bond-street,
W., and is obtainable of all grocers and wine mer¬
chants, &c.

From the “Licensed Victuallers’ Guardian.”
   The Calisayine Bitters will be found one of the most
refreshing drinks out. We have before referred to the
excellent tonic qualities of the Calisayine Cocktail
Bitters invented by Mr. Yeatman, of New Bond-street,
and the good opinon we have formed of them seemed

                            25
to be generally endorsed by those who visited the tasting
department of the “ Show.”

“ Bicycling & Athletic Journal.’’—October 2,
                   1879.
   Again, we can recommend all our friends to the
 “Calisayine Cocktail Bitters,” called the “Prince of
 Pick-me-Ups,” made by Messrs. Yeatman and Co., 119,
 New Bond-street, and we would suggest that they pro¬
cure from this firm a little work named, “Drinks,
and how to Make Them,” which is equally suited to the
wants of a total abstainer as to he who indulges in the
juice of the grape. A glass of champagne cock-tail,
manipulated by a member of the firm and handed to us,
in which the bitters in question were present, caused us
to wish we were near neighbours to the courteous gentle¬
man who dispensed this hospitality.

From the “Licensed Victuallers’ Gazette.”
            October 4, 1879.
  Entering from the eastern end, the first stand which
meets the eye is that of Messss. Yeatman & Co., of 119,
New Bond-street, who have a large display of their
Calisayine Cocktail Bitters, and who are giving away
champagne, gin cock-tails, and delightful milk drinks
made with their charming bitters.


                          Tanglewood House, S.
                                        June isth, 1879.
Dear Kate,
  I must write you the news of the week;
    Flora Flimsy’s engaged to be married !
  And to whom do you think ?—Why to Percival Peak,
    Who the honours of Cambridge last carried ;
      Cerulean Longhose is half mad of pique.
      And Beatrice Bowstring for rage can scarce speak,
                           26
Mamma is quite happy—I hope now her nenres,
  As M.D. says, “will keep well in tone.’
She takes soda and milk, in place of the herbs,
  But as this did not quite suit alone.
    She was told Calisayine Bitters to use.
    And her praise of these Bitters is now quite
         profuse.
 We are having such fun ! You know Colonel Tring
  (The great Iriend of your dear Captain Stubb),
 He came here to dinner, and what should he bring
  (I believe from the Marlborough Club),
     Well—a bottle of Bitters, some “Cocktails to
          make;
     I wish you’d been here, for this and our sake.

 So a “ Cocktail Champagne ” before dinner we had,
    Of Bitters Calis-ayine made.
 It is so delicious ! If your appetite’s bad,
    You need not a bit be afraid ;
       The Bitters will quite appetise you for meat,
       And most things in the menu you’re sure of to
            eat.

  But to hear Colonel Tring talk of “smashes” and
        “ slings ”
    (All made with these Bitters, you know).
  And “Cocktails” and “Juleps,” and all sorts of
       things,
     It would surelv amuse you, I vow.
        He says and declares that this Mr. Yeatxnan,
        By inventing these Bitters is now quite a great
             man.
P.S.
  At Henley we hope to see you and Bel Witters,
  Captain Stubb says he’ll join us, and bring down some
        Bitters.                                 S. P.
                          27
USED IN THE QUEENS KITCHENS 6-
  ADOPTED BY THE GOVERNMENT.

YEATMAN’S YEAST POWDER:
        The Perfection of Baking Powder.

Delicious and Digestive Home-made Bread can he
 prepared ready for Baking in a few mimutes.


Specially adapted for PASTRY and PUD¬
DINGS of all kinds. Economising Eggs and
                  Butter.

The Yeast Powder renders Pastry exceedingly light and
wholesome, a teaspoonful is equal in effect to four Eggs


      yBATMAN'S          ySAST        j^OWDEI^

Is used in HER MAJESTY’S KITCHEN, and after
Analyses made by Professor Abel, of Woolwich Arsenal,
and Dr. Parkes, of Netley Hospital, it was adopted by
the Government. The reports made as to its Excellence
and Wholesomeness by these scientists ; also Dr. Hassal,
Author of “ Food and its Adulteration^” are in a marked
manner favourable and eulogistic, and it is admitted that
Bread made with the YEAST POWDER is more
easily digested than that made by the old process with
brewer’s yeast; moreover it is more nutritious, keeps
moist for days, does not sour or mildew, and it is a
boon for dyspeptics and those of weakened digestion.
                           28
    No acidity is generated, and the gluten, sugar, starch,
and other nutritious components of flour remain by the
use of YEATMAN’S YEAST POWDER unimpaired.
It IS used m the households of thousands of our most
prominent families, among whom : Sir Wm. Gull, M.D.,
Admiral Nepean, the Bishop of Peterboro’, Lord Evers-
ley, Lord Skermersdale, &c., &c. It is especially useful
in India, China, Africa, the Colonies, and all latitudes
where English “ home-made bread ” is a luxury. Among
its many merits it will resist damp, and will remain in
good preservation for years in any climate.
  # Thousands of testimonials have been received and can
be seen at 119, New Bond Street. It is admitted by all
to be infinitely superior to the usual Baking Powders, and
the objectionable alkaline taste caused by these powders
does not occur with YEATMAN’S YEAST POWDER.
    ^^-‘'^TMAN S yeast powder is superior to
German Yeast, inasmuch as the latter sours in a warm
temperature. The Yeast Powder resists even the tem¬
perature of the Indies or the Tropics. Owners of Yachts,
Commanders of Steam Ships, and Mariners generally
discover in this preparation an article long wanted.

Report called for by the WAR OFFICE on
     YEATMAN’S YEAST POWDER.
   ‘ ‘ Bread was baked by men of the supply branch of the
Army Service Corps; YEATMAN’S YEAST POW¬
DER was used the whole time, and the experiment proved
highly satisfactory. The Powder does not seem liable to
be affected by damp, and I should strongly recommend
its use in all future Expeditions. The advisability of
adopting YEATMAN’S YEAST POWDER may I
think, be considered as clearly proved.
                   (Signed) J. W. MURRAY,
        ^                     Assist-Commissary General,
War Office, Aug. isf, 1870.”
                           29
                ZULU WAR.
     YEATMAN’S YEAST POWDER was used
during the Zulu Campaign for making Bread
for the troops engaged.     Among other stores
despatched to the seat of war, were 35,000 lbs.
of YEATMAN’S YEAST POWDER.

     When preparing for eventualities in respect
of    the   Turko-Russian   War, 40,000 lbs. of
YEATMAN’S YEAST             POWDER were re¬
quisitioned, with continuous orders to follow.



               YEATMAN’S
ROYAL INDIAN CURRIE P01DEI[
      The purest and most delicious
             Currie in the world.

      USED IN HER MAJESTY’S KITCHEN.
        %
            IN BOTTLES, Is. & Ss.
                 THE NEW AMERICAN
ICE CREAM & WINE FREEZER
                             For making clear ice with the
                         freezing crystal as before men¬
                         tioned,    and    for   making two
                         kinds of Ices, or Ice Creams,
                         at one time, either with ice and
                         salt or the freezing crystal.

                             This machine is          also   con¬
                         structed    so    as    to    Frappee
                         Wine, &c., in six minutes.


         SIZES ABD PRICES OP MACEINES.
                                                       £     s. d.
No. I     Pint with two Moulds complete           .    2 10 0
 „ 2      Quarts     „    .,     „                .    8 15     0
 ,, 3     Pint one Plain ,,      ,,               .220
 ,, 4     Quart      ,,  ,,      „                .330
 ,, 5     Frappee Machine for One Bottle
,,   6    Ice,   Cream   &    Wine        Freezer
           with two Fluted Moulds com¬
           plete, and for i bottle  ...      ... 3 17 6
 ,, 7 Ice, Cream & Wine Freezer, with one
           plain mould, and for 3 bottles ... 5 5 0
Inexhaustible Freezing Crystal,        per tin, 110
        Shown in Practical Operation at the

ATMOSPHERIC CHURN COMPANY
              WOOLF & CO. Proprietors,
         119, NEW BOND STREET, LONDON.
            THE AMERICAN CABINET

 REFRIGERATOR.




   Meat, Fish, Butter, Fruit, &:c., may be kept together
without one influencing the flavour of the other. Hence,
 Vlutton, Beef, Game, Poultry, &c., can be preserved until
used. Perfectly dry, quite sweet, odourless, and whole¬
some. Free from the close smell discovered in all other
Refrigerators.
          To be seen in practical operation at the

ATMOSPHERIC CHURN COMPANY,
           WOOLF & CO., Proprietors,
       119, NEW BOND STREET, W.
Ice Boxes and Refrigerators, from 27s. 6d,
                  \\^i   ^
                      '<■<'%'.    ^ . A i .„'■' '1 vu' -/''■’ ■ ■**“ «--'' '•■;'’
                                 "•''’-‘'v;-              r
                    jjr 4 «t ^ * w
                 ; i-J"                      "   . ,i>"
                                                   'Jr" .
                                                                     WtS0M                                                                                                                   i/-
.|r           -.
'1 A. -. ■.■■. ■■■■•. ■ ■•
                             'r.V>.> ^
                                  .s ■.'i-:T\..'>if •     V .;; ■ . ■
                                                                       fw          j: \s^-.

                                W> - ^         f          ^ f ’ v< , r v;: -

‘'$'f                 ' '’'C^”'VHu ’                                                                                                                         rf-. '       V     %'-■




 "A               ,          .'v                                                                    v^-v -Sv'',                                                  ' A-*'                     I ‘
 ■i--'",,'-- vA'A->• ■'.■-' r-Ar ---AA'-.;, ;.
  ^. '-'     .’-S^    -t_^'-| 4
                ^ ;■' -T.^A   -Cr>\'
                                £yv' '^4..
                                         ,r '■ ! ‘‘A                                                                                                                                       i'W:
                             ,         ^         v^ < "         '         »        L<                     S'                    ■>'"4          >'AW

                  'H I )''                                                    ’“'C” ^                                                          \i^                   / "'Y-^

                        '»^ r-,. AK .                                                                     ^:/p'%                                                               V''-         b
         '4--' .*4A.^4 '    >      4.rT^44 4^4«4/r '      '!>
          4 A. 4 44 A, 4.'^ A 44 : A A 4^.     f . AA A, A A



                       A                                4 A 4 A r ^ Av'A ' ^r -"' A , 5 A|
                                                            .'.If. >*, S\^;.:' 'V I. ,v. /a

          ' (.44                                                                       >      v4 4-           '■'-V     A4''4'                                        ''■'f     4.-'
                                  ,,        ' U .'A,                 -.        t           i/'^S>    >        i< < a.   fi-v       !       y       J,    /       ,,       (.
           *
             J.         s
                         4"4 4                 »
                                                 ’^V '4 ,
                                                          ^
                                                                    4'\ A^A
                                                                   W"r>v                                              0*^^‘                                              A«-N>
                     ,'    .A *-4A /o’rV'A <> ? ' X 4A Ai, (                  4 '
             4Vf'   f*' 7  ‘4^^‘i'> A
                                    4"AA'^
                                        A A'^44A--‘i
                                                 A--'^; ,         1 . V ^'     -V
                                                                                y ,A                                    5              ,       1             .   V                     ,
              c" 5if    '■ "^       , 4  n a ^u< "     »/■
                                                       X/. A*. Aj- -''11,1 }• i     ’'
              4V >4 4 A 4 '44 A',.A<y                            4 v                .,:
                             A-                                      A>                  ^              y4-7'»-
                   AJj-’is' 4''4‘■
                               V- 4« /                                                 4
                                                                                       4 44" .iA-^T''»»
                                                                                               a'' 5i.4t'
                                                                                                        ?;; V   4                              44 a44 .4 ,
                  */ f' A ‘cViiV                                                       4 ",(V, a s> -'' r A. 4 '4A)/;                                                            Y
                                  /44^%a:4'4.a:                                                     4 a>4a]a''                                          4/^'4:a"                       ’^4
                  4’4 a4aa:4V''4w' ^4..4A,A vA\V->4 ,
                                       "* ■■’ ‘y,/‘ \ ; .> ’, J As.' " 4v   A4' ; >
                                 'V"'4 A *-J       ‘A "y*'^ y^l"    r^A   'A A.
                                                            > '"4V,> \Afcl44#|AiA44A
                         44>A44:a,/'                                                           ^Ai4 ;'^4"s4 /AA4s4\
                      vt>A-5           y ''^ - .Js                                              ^(4 4,k                          „r                                                            '
                                     4  , ” "1                                                      -<■       .
                                                                                                                  ' Cy *
                                                                                                                  A''y      i
                                                                                                                                 ^             ..       y5 V '4 4 1^ 5 4''< «
                                                                                                                                                           Of-v
                                 ,4^ A 4a: ^  *s^        ^ v.   *>         ”       r
V v<'’?l''/>^>.'/'Y''.>t'''v •>•'   ’'^'i                ’•          ■   ”>'..•■:•'■.-,--5 '.iisi           ^       S'.     y.,:   ••   .   /f. ■'.'4 ^1^15..




                                                     ^
'p,i#■•                  ss;;.;t^v^ V>;-V-f:^'• ^.v



y-;;
                  Stv/.v ■iS’>’'^            ; ,■;?•• :'-ri\ '.'aM >.'f-. A AV.-.'. ;. .';i,,,^. '     -A       .            ^              i
   -.ASA/A-^A/Ay-vS'...-^ j-y,              :• . ,                '■;}/■ ,1 Ai'.r -'ij?:           .   . ,-M-. -          \ ■ -’ iJ''^'',':
