rl'
i/




      \\\
     r"
             master,




          ; i£-', m-i




v/          '— ■'   -*   -
1.   »
 r-




 ■:
I  •
i■         i
S' '
 :     ,




            ■4
           /f
              ''-m
              Vy Vf.fl




                 '"' ff'
                 ■ (4^"




■ 'i.Uj:..,
" \
fHtajoa?:




                                                                            19 y^^'"'\'




            THE "SOVAK 0 VINHO" AT THE QUINTA DO SEXIO, IN THE ALTO DOUKO
                                                                              Frontispiece,
                                                                                         rM

                                                                                         't1



 FACTS                          ABOUT                             PORT

                    AND               MADEIRA.


notices of the wines VINTAGED AEOUNPl LISBON,
                 AND THE WINES OF TENERIEE.




                    HENRY               VIZETELLY,
                         Chevalier of the Order of Franz-Josef.
    irin« Jworfor Great Britain at the Vienna and Paris Exhibitions of 1873 and 1878.
Author of "Facts About Sherry,""Facts About Champagne and Other Sparkling Wines," Jrc.




        WITH        ONE       HUNDRED              ILLUSTRATIONS,
              CHIBBIjY BEOM sketches by BI1NK3T A. TIZETELLY.




                                    LONDON:

     WARD, lock;, and CO., SALISBURY SQUARE.
                SCRIBNER AND WELFORD, NEW YORK.
                                        1880.
l<r '.f*. ',




                          LONDON:

                    PIIIKTED BY JAS. WADB,
               TAVI8T00K 8TBBKT, COVKNT GAUDKN.
The foHowing pages, with some trifling exceptions,
    were written on the spot in the autumn of 1877 and
•appeared at the time in the columns of the Pcdl MaU
Gazette. They are offered to the public in their present
form, after undergoing the necessary revision, illustrated
with Engravings, either from shetches made by my son,
who accompanied me on my tour, or from original photo
graphs. Any value the subject-matter of the work can
lay claim to wiU certainly be enhanced by the fidelity
with which the principal scenes and incidents have been
pictorially rendered.
                                                  H, V.

  London, December, 1879.
 Mr.Tizeielly discourses brigMy aud discrimmatiugly on criis and bouquets.,
    and the different Eiuopean vineyards, most of which he hns evidently
    visited.—Tlii Timts.

                    Uniform with the present work,
      2s.^d. handsomely hound in clothf Is. Gd. in ornamental cover,
   FACTS ABOUT CHAMPAGNE AND OTHER
                      SPARKLING WINES,
     CoihECTED DTJEINa NtJMEEOTJS YiSITS TO THE CnAMPAQNK
           AND OTHEE VlTICULTtJEAD         DlSTEICTS OP !FeANOE
AND THE PEINOIPAL EEMAINING WiNE-PEODTJCING COHNTEIEa OF EHEOPK.,
                      lUustrated with 112 Engravings.

              Is.6d. hound in cloth. Is. in ornamental cover,

           FACTS                ABOUT              SHERRY,
 Gleaned in the Vinexaeds and Eodeoas op the Jebez, Setilliv
        Moghee, and Mohtilla Disteiots dheing the
                                Ahtdmn op 1875.
           With numerous Illustrations from Original^Sketches.

        Also Is.Gd., hound in cloth {only afew copies remaining'),
    THE          WINES               OF      THE          WORLD
                      Ohabacteeized and Classed,

                                 In preparation,
  FACTS ABOUT CLARET AND BURGUNDY..
                      Illustrated with 100 Engravings.
     FACTS ABOUT HOCK AND MOSELLE.
                           With numerous Illustrations.
                             CONTENTS.


                      PART I.—LISBON AVINES.
                I.—The Vintaging of Bucellas.
To Portugal by way 6f Mndeira,the Canary Islands,and Cadiz—The Vovaea
   from Tenenfe—An Ill-mannered Hidalgo, a Prench Merchant from tbo
   Slave Coast, the Dusky Heir to an African Throne and n            t
   Uded Spanish Naval Lientenant-A Series of Gorgeous              a
   at Cadiz—Smuggling for mere love of the thing—From Cad!r fo T •
   RaU across the desolate-loolnng Sierra Morena—Drivefrom               i^
   City of the Seven Hills to the Vineyards of Bueellas-Thr
   at Early Morning-Pleasant Suburban Villages and Qui^tos-CoH
   and Gateways adorned with Pictured Tiles—Change in the Pnlf i
   Aspect of the Country m the neighbourhood of the turbid Hihior„ ^
   Bemposta-The Village of Bucellas-Visit to a Wine-Parmer-HiL Hom^
   and his Belongings—The BuceUas Vineyards—The Vintage and the Vin
   tan-ers—The Casa do Lagar and how the Grapes are Pressed—Visit to the
   Adegas of Sandeman Brothers at the Qninta de Cabo Ruivo—Varieties
   of Lisbon Wines there Stored,inclnding the fresh-tasting Bucellas Hook 15
II. OOLLABES, ToEEES VeDEAS, THE TeEMO, CaMAEATE,
                   Oaecavellos, and Laveadio.
The Drive to Gintra—The Portugese Eseorial—Fate of the Steam-ploughs
  designed for Queen Donna Maxia s Model Farm—The use to which the
   Steam-plougli ia put by the mild Hindoo—The Beauties of Cintra—The
   Vineyards of Collares-The Adegas of Alraocegema and the Newly-
   vintaged Collares Wine—The Growths of Torres Vedras and of the
   Termo of Lisbon—The Wine of Camarate-Messrs. Wynn and Custanee's
   Adegas at Sacavem—The Various \Vines shipped by the House-Up
  rooting of Vines by order of the Marquis de Pombal—Ancient Renaissance
  Fountain—The Lavradio Vineyards and Wines—Mr. Cresswell's Stores
  at Morta—Past and Present Consumption of Lisbon AVines . . . 22.


          PART II.—IN THE PORT AVINE COUNTRY.
     I,—Off to the Uppee DotrEO: the Qhinta da
                             Boa Vista.
Early Morning Glimpses from the Railway Train—Arrive at Oporto—
   Through the Province of Entre-Donro-e-Minho—Vinhos Verdes of the
   District—Oporto Shippers en route to the Port Wine Vintage—Pass
  through picturesque Amarante—Our Carriage drawn by Bullocks up the
  Mountain—Rugged nature of the Scenery—Reach the QuintiUa Pass—
  Troops of Beggars awaiting our arrival—Descend the Mountain to Regoa
  —Its Vine-clad Hills scored with Stone Terraces—Cross the Upper Douro
  and ascend the River along its left bank—AVine-Boats making their diffi
  cult passage down the Stream—The Surrounding Hills terraced from base
  ■to summit, and covered with Vines—Carolling Vintagers and Screeching
  Bullock-carts—Mules halt at the Fountain while their Drivers tipple at
  ■the Venda—Visit the Quinta da Boa Vista—The ATntage in full operation
                                Contents.

   —Treading tie Grapes—Vintagers bronglt from remote parts—Their
   Pay, Food, and Sleeping Accommodation—The Casa dos Lagares and
   Adega of the Quinta                                            Sth

     H.—Bitting New Wine. A Toub of Inspection.
We Eeoross the Douro—A Eido in the Darlc to the Qninta dos Arregadas—A
  Homing Levee of Neighhouring Farmers—Testing their Samples of Wine
  —Generally impoverished condition of the Alto Douro;Wine-Growers—
  Terms upon which the Wine is purchased—Start on an Excursion np
   the Douro—The Eoads mere Bridie-Paths and Bullock-Tracks—Visit a
  (Quinta in the famous Eoriz District—Mode of taking a Sample of the
  Eew Wine—Vintage Quarters of a well-to-do Douro Farmer—Eido on to
  the Quinta do Caedo—Its owner an ancient adherent of Queen Dona
  Maria—Treading the Grapes to a tinkling Guitar—An Alto Douro Lun
  cheon—Some of the luxuries composing it                          3B'

               m.—How Poet Wine is Made.
The Quinta do Seixo—Its commodious and well-arranged Casa,Lagares,and
  Adega—Vintagers Singing the popular ditty "Marianinha"—Prevalence
  of Celtic,Jewish,and Moorish faces among them—The Women frequently
  decked out in heavy Jewelry—The Casa dos Lagares of the Quinta -A
  gang of Sixty Treaders at Work—They sing and shout to encourage the
  weak and lazy—Are accompanied hy Dmm, Fife, Fiddle, and Guitar-
  Nips of Brandy and Cigarettes served round—The first Treading, the
  "Sovar o vinho," or Beating the Wine, is completed—Interval of rest^
  Treading resumed in a listless fashion—Music loses its Inspiration and
  Authority its Terrors—Fermentation of the Mosto—The Wine is run off
  into the Tonels—Clears itself in the Cold Weather—Is Backed into Pipes
  and sent down to the Wine-hoats—The Alto Douro Bullock-carts and
  their unearthly"Childreda"—Loading the Wine-hoats—The Kapids they
  encounter on the Voyage to Oporto—Slrilfulness of the Steersmen-
  Characteristics of the Douro Boatmen—Their Tod when Ascending the
  Eiver                                                      .    - 48-
rv.—Some Pinhao Quintas—An Upper Dottbo Village—
               Lovely Woman in the Lagar.
The Quinta Amarella and Casal de Loivoa—So-called Rougliin^? it in an
  Alto Douro Quinta—The Village of Pinhao aud its principn-l Features
  Excursion to the Quinta do Noval—Magnificent View from its Upper-
  Heights—Its Lagares and Modem Presses—Ravages of the Phylloxera-
  Some Alto Donro Wine made without added Spirit—We follow the ^urse
  of the Pinhao—Distance lends enchantment to the View of an Alto Donro
  Village-;-Closer Acquaintance dissipates the Illusion—The Casa Grande
  of Celleiros—Senhor Arnaldo's Douro Quintas—His new Adega one or
  ^e finest in the Alto Douro—The Red and White Wines of Celleiros—-A
  Visit at Night-time to a neighhouring Lagar—A party of W^omen Treaders
  having a merry time of it—They Dance upon the Grapes with the frenzy
  of Wild Bacchantes                                                        3/,

 V.—A Toer to some Famoxts Quintas on the Poubo
     and the Eio Tobto—^The Cachao da Valleiea.
From Celleiros to the Costa do Eoncao—A party of Lagariros taking their
  Bepose—The Quintas of Eoncao, Dona Eosa, Jordao, Eoraaneira, Serrao,
  Liceiraa.and Malheiros—Other Quintas higher up the Douro—The Quinta.
  do Bonz and its onginal Plantation by an entbnsiastio Scotch Sportsman,
                                 Contents.
                                                                        FiLGE^

  —Eocda,the so-called Diamond of the Port Wine Conntry—The Quinta
  renovated and extended by the Bariio da Boeda—It is successively Devas
  tated by the Oidium and the Phylloxei-a—Efforts of the BarSo da Bnoda
  to arrest the ravages of the latter—The Quintas of Cnrvalhas and Vento-
  zello—Excursion to the principal Quintas of the Bio Torto—Priests
  acting as Overseers in many Alto Douro Quintas—Wo meet troops of
   Donkeys carrying Skins of Wine—Beach a barren Plateau, and sight Sao
   Joao da Pesqueira—Its antique palntial-looldng edifices, and their hnge
   escutcheons—We visit the Quinta do Sidrd—Vines 1,000 feet above the
   level of the Douro—Ascend the craggy height of Sao Salvador do
   Mundo with little (^apels perched up its side—View from here of the
   dreaded Cachao da Valleira—The Douro Boatmen bare their heads and
   pray as they approach the perilous gorge—The Quinta do Vesuvio, the
   largest of the Douro yinevai-ds-Its Plantations of Oranges, Olives, and
   Almonds, as well as Mulben-y-trees for Silkworms-Other Quintas in
  theneighboui-hood—Wende back andare ferned over to Pinhao . . 71
  VI.—The Vineyards and Vines of the Alto Dohro.
The Plauting of an Upper Douro Vineyard-Its cost—The various Vinevard
   operations—All the harder work performed by Gallegos, the common
   Drudges throughout Portugal—Eavages of the Phylloxera in the Alto
   Douro—Bemedies employed by the more intelligent proprietors—Varieties
   of Grapes that enter into the composition of Port Wine—Species of Vines
   producing the White Ports-The Malvasia or Malmsey and Moscatel
   yarieties of Grapes—Area of the Douro Vineyards—Their produce of fine
   and ordinary Wines—Prices of these Wines in loco—Course of the Biver
   Douro-Climate of the Wine region—The proper elevation of a Douro
   Quinta—Bareness of Spring Frosts-Hail and Thunder storms in the
   &o Douro—The Soil of the Vineyards, together with Vines, Trees, and
   Bocks, swept away by Bushing Torrents                                     8S
        VII.—The Inhabitants of the Alto Dohbo
                          Wine District.
Tempeiament of the People—Their Sturdiness-^The Marriage Bite dispensed
   with by the Peasantry—State of Education—Alto Douro Funerals—
   Gradual dying out of Ancient Superstitions—The Lobis-homeu,or Wehr-
       —Its Nightly Occupation—The Bruxas,or Witches—Their Midnight
   Festivals—Antipathy, of the Douro Peasant to Military Service—His
   Ambition to be a Vineyard Proprietor—The Alto Douro Wine-Farmer—
   His Honesty—His Hasty Temper—The Lawlessness formerly prevailing
   in the Alto Douro region—An Incident which occurred some few years
   ago at Tua—A Supper interrupted by a party of Armed Men—Courageous
   Conduct of a Feitor—A Dislocated Wrist and Broken Bibs—A Vain
   Search and a Lucky Escape from Assassina'ion—Arrival of a Belief
   Party Death of the Leader of a Marauding Gang—Burial of the Corpse
   by a Goatherd
   VTTT—The Eethrn Journey—Eegoa—Baixo Corgo
                          AND Villa Eeal.
Along the Banlcs of the Douro to Begoa—Origin of the Capital of the Port
    Wine District—Earliest Shipments of the Douro Wines to England—The
   Methuen Treaty—Port Wine in DifBculties-Bise in its Price and Falling
   off in its Quality—Formation of the Alto Douro Wine Company—Its
   Arbitrary Privileges and more Arbitrary Proceedings—Its eventual
   Abolition—Some Baixo Corgo Quintas—The limits of the Paiz Vinhateiro'
   —A party of Homeward-bound Vintagers—Prices of the Lower and
                               , Contents.
                                                                           PIOE.
   Upper Corgo Wines—The Journey to Villa Eeal—A Sunday Scene at
   Sao Miguel de Lobrigoa—Haltat Comieira—Typical Portuguese Beggars
   —Reach Villa Eeal—Great Antiquity of the Town—Dom Diniz,"who,
   as svery one knows, did what he chose"—Fine old Houses built by
   Adventurers returned from India and the Brazils   .   .   .    .     .101
    rx.—The Poet Wine Capital.—A Cohple op
                    Villa Nova Wine-Lodges.
"We Recross the Serra do Marao—Bullock-Drivers wearing great-coats made
   of Rushes—Picturesque coup d'ceil presented by Oporto—Animated
   aspect of the River Douro—Its varied Craft—Most of the Hard Work at
   Oporto performed by Women-The Female Bullock-Drivers and their
  partiality for Jewelry—The Oporto Streets so many Paved Precipices—
  Long Horns and Ornamental Yokes of the Oxen—Rarity of Female
  Beauty throughout Portugal—Is most prevalent among the Peasantry
  —Se^n Chairs still used by Oporto Ladies—City Night Patrols—
  Tortoises and Mussels—Redundancy of the Picturesque and Absence of
  the Artistic at Oporto—Scarcity of Fireplaces in the Oporto Houses—
  Capotes and Woollen Shawls common at Winter-time in Oporto Drawing-
  rooms-—The Ruados Inglezes and the British Factory-house—^Villa Nova
  da Gaia—The Lodges of Messrs. G. G. Sandemau and Sons—Their
  Antiquated Aspect^Anival of New Wine from the Alto Douro-Its
  Blending and subsequent Racking—Port kept sparingly in Soleras—
  Messrs. Saudeman's gloomy-looking AmareUa Stores—The Firm's large
  stock of Port Wine—Their Cooperage—Martinez, Gassiot, and Oo.'s
  Lodges—A Rustic Counting-house—Coopers at Work-Gauging, Brand
  ing, and Seasoning of New Pipes—Falling-in of a Lodge Roof—Con
  servative bpint observable at Martinez, Gassiot, and Co.'s—Pipes pre-
  parmg for Shipment—Brandy kept isolated in the Lodge       •    •    -US
       The Villa Nova Wine-Lodges Vintage Poets.
The House of Cockbum, Smithes, and Co. Founded during the Year of
  Waterloo—The Lodges of the Firm originally built by the Alto Donro
    TbAL°3T^t J               "P         retreating Miguelites in 1833
  F;3;!ln^- • ? Estebhshment
                v            of the^°®House
                                        Siftage and Tawny
                                            of Offley,       Portsand
                                                       Forrester,  of Co.
                                                                      the
  tLrn tlTp""
  Hem            ^°.'^g®®.kno™
       the Preparation         astheforArmazeus
                       M Port Wme               das Aguias—Witness
                                         Shipment—Fine             at
                                                        Vintage Wmes
  from the Qumta da Boa Vista—White Ports for Russia—Silva and
  Losens s ViUa Nova Establishment—Their New Lodge the Largest at
  ViUa ^ova VamuB Mechanical Appliances had reconrse to for Econo-
                 Firm's Steam Cooperage and Machinery for Cask-
 Matog—Their Vintag® and other Wines—The various Lodges of W.and
 ■d. trraham and Co.--Their numerous Blending Vats and Shafts with
 L
 ot lu
     the 1?®!                     fo'" Transferring
         Lstabhshment to another-Animated    Scene atWine
                                                      theirfrom one part
                                                             Cooperage—
 bamplM of Fine Ports shown to us—Only the Best Alto Douro Wmes of
 ^od years Shipped as Vintage Wines—The Treatment they Undergo
 aimr Arnvmg at Villa Nova—Mode of Blending—The Racking and
             Vmtage Ports—Vintage Years in the Alto Douro since 1834 ■
  ef w ''"'PP®'"® of Vintage Ports—Vintage Wines Tasted at the Lodges
  the         irn' fu®                   Taylor, Fladgate, and Co., and
                                         Ports and other Wines of the
  Teave nns p            s Port—The Lodges and Wines of Hunt, Roope,
  tS  OnnSi Steam Cooperage Company
  aue uporto                 Co., andand
                                      Mackenzie,  DrisooR, and .Co.—
                                         their Estahlishment     ■ . 124
                                  Conients.
                                                                       PASS.

  XI.—^Eldebberries and Logwood—Gtenerai. Remarks
                         ABOUT Port Wine.
JLord Lytton's Reckless Assertions regarding Port Wine Confuted—Elder
   berries not Used for Dyeing the Wine—Geropi^ often ilised with Low-
   class Ports—Logwood incapable of Deepening the Colour of Port
   Wine—The amount of Spirit usually Added to Port—High Alcoholic
   Strength which the Alto Douro Wines will naturally develop—Evapo
   ration of tho watery parts of Wine in warm, dry Climates—Alto Douro
   Wine mode without Adventitious Spirit—Wine of this character not
   likely to supersede Port of the established type—Frequent changes of
             in the style of Port Wme h ine Old Tawny Ports and tlieir
   Cheaper Substitutes—La^g down Port Wiue—Mr. T. G. Shaw's sug-
   „eations for bringing it forward rapidly in Bottle—Burrow's patent
  "SUder" Wine-bms                                                         140


   part III.—THE "VINEYARDS AND WINES OP MADEIRA
                            AND TENERIFE.

       X.—The Voyage to Madeira—The Vintage at
                    Santa Cruz and Sao Joao.
Early Renown of tho Wine of Madeira—Voyage to the Island on board
   the African—Leave-takings at Southampton—The Steamer touches at
   Plymouth—Our Fellow-Passengers—Cape Town Snooks and Crawfish—
   Story of Chief Engineer Jones's Remarkable Find—We sight Porto Santo
   and then Madeira—Appearance of the latter from the Sea—Amphibious
   Madeirense—Ox Sledges and Cars—Boat Excursion to Santa Cruz—
   Messrs. Krohn's Vineyard there—System of Training the Vines—Gathering
   and Treading the Grapes—The Pleasant Proximity of a Shark—Ride to
   the Quinta do Moute-;-The Vintage in Mr. LeacocVs Vineyard at Sao
   Joilo—Treatment of Vines attacked by the Phylloxera and the Oidium—
   Treading and Pressing the Grapes—A Treader Flung Across the Vara . 149
      The Vineyards of Sao Mabtinho, Cama de Lobos,
       the Estreito, Quinta Grande, Santo Antonio,
        and others.
A. Sledge Descent to Funohal—Excursion with a Party in Hammocks to the
    Vineyards on the South Side of the Island—^Meet some Boracheiros
    bringing down Newly-made Wine in Skins—The District of Sao Mar-
   tinho The Ravine of the Ribeiro dos Sooeorridos—View from the Peak
   of Cama de Lobos—Its Vineyards destroyed by the PhyUoxera—Break
   fast at a Dame's School—The Vineyards of the Estreito—We cross the
   Ribeiro de Vigario—Ascend to the Summit of Gabo Girao, the Highest
   Chlf against which the Sea Dashes in the World-—Have Luncheon there,
   and our Bearers take their Siesta—Steep and Difficult Descent to Cama
   de Lobos—We return by Punehal by Boat^Dangerous Eddy off Pouta
   da Cruz—Excursion on Horseback to the Vineyards of the Santo Antonio
   District—The Madeira Mirantes or Look-out Places—Scanty Raiment
   worn by the Children—The Many Hundred Miles of Terraced Walls at
   Madeira—Tenure of Land in the Island—Bent Paid in Kind—Senhor
   Salles's Vineyard—We visit the Vineyard known as Mae dos Homens, or
   Mother of Men, in a Bullock-car—Find the Animals more Patient and
   Quiet than their Excitable, Noisy Drivers—The Principal Vineyards on
  'the North Side of the Island   .   .   •.   .   .     •   .   .    .161
                               Conteniu,                                        'f
                                                                          PAOE..   jpj
    m.—The Vines, their Chltivation, and the chief
             VlTICULTUEAL DISTRICTS OF MaDEIEA.
Introdnction of the Vine into Madeira—Kavases caused by the Ol'dium—
   Beplanting of the Vines—The Phylloxera Vastatrix—Species of Grapes
   Cultivated in the Madeira Vineyards—Planting and Training of the
   Vines—Past and Present Mode of Training adopted on the North Side of
   the Island—Varieties of Soils—The Terraced Vineyards of Madeira—
   Tenure of Land—Rent invariably paid in Kind—The Principal Viti-
   cultural Districts—Mr. R. Davies's Charming Villa "A Vigia"—Scarcity
   of Water in Madeira—Periodical Levadas and their High Value—The
   Supply of Drinking Water                                           . 173.

 rV.—^Funchal, and some Pamohs Wine-Stores there.
The Madeira Capital—Its Aspect on Shore and as Viewed from the Sea—
  The Armazens or Wine-Stores of Messrs. Cossart, Gordon,and Co.—Their
  Serrado Stores—The Cooperage—A Store Swept Away by Winter Flooda
  —TreUised Vines afford Shade in all the Open Spaces—The Treatment
  which the Mosto or newly-made Wine undergoes—Cossart, Gordon, and
  Co.'s Estufa Stores—Treatment of Madeira with Artificial or Natural
  Heat—Mode of Proceeding followed in the Estufa—The Pateo Stores of
  Cossart, Gordon,and Co., and some of the remarkable Wines contained in
  them—Stock of Madeira held by the Firm                                 179^

            V.—Some other Fhnchal Wine-Stores.
The Stores and Estufas of Messrs. Krohn Brothers in the Carmo quarter
  —Animated Scene presented there—Boracheiros Delivering Skins of
  Mosto—The Finer Wines of the Firm—Their Royal and Imperial Cus
  tomers—Large Stock of Madeira in the Forty Stores owned by Messrs.
  Blandy Brothers—The Rare and Old Wines of the Firm—An Archaic
  Curiosity—The Old-Bstablished Firm of Leacock and Company—An
  objection to Famishing Food to the Fishes—Leacock and Co.'s Stores,
  and Wmes-The Stores of Henry Dru Drury, late Rutherford, Drury,
  and Co.—Some Venerable Nuns—Mr. H. D. Drury's more remarkable
          The Stores of Heuriques and Lawton,'formerly the Mansion of a
  Lady of Rank—A Lengthy and Expensive Lawsuit^Cama de Lobos and
  other fine Madeiras of the Firm—Their Estufas Messrs. Welsh's Stores
  —The Delicate Wines shown us at the Stores of Messrs. B- Donaldson
      Co—The Stores and Wines of Meyrelles Sobrinho e Cia., Hwrique
  J. M. Camacho, Viuva Abudarham e Filhos, Augosto C. Biauchi, Cunha,
  Leal Irmaos e Cia., and Leitao—The Madeira Vintage—The Produea
  greatly in excess of the Demand—Cause of Madeira going ont of Fashion
  —Large Stocks of Good Wine at presentin the Island—Its Moderate Price 187"
                VI.—The Wines of Tenerife.
The Voyage from Madeira to Tenerife—Retuming—Negro Traders got up in
  an elaborate style—A German African Explorer and his probable fate—
  HoweU's famous Panegyric of Canary—The Tenerife Vineyards Destroyed
  by the Oidium-Cultivation of Cochineal and Tobacco—Santa Cruz—.
   Nelson's Attack against it—The Anniversary of his Repulse still cele
   brated—Situation of the Tenerife Vineyards—The Vintage—The various
   "°es—Canary Sack-—The Vidonia and other Wines of Messrs. Hamilton
   md Co.—Tenerife Wines no lonser subjected to Artificial Heat—Messrs.
   Davidson and Co.'s Bodegas and Wines—Excursion to the Ancient Capital
  " d^^"^             and Gathering of Cochineal-Religions Processions 203--
       LIST OF PAGE ILLUSTRATIONS.



                                                                PAQE.

The "Sovab o Vinho" at the Quinta do Seixo,ik the Alto Dotiro
                                                      Frontispiece.^
The Adegas oe Messes. Sandemak Brothers at the Qhikta db
    Cabo BHiro, NEAR XiISBOH .   .     .     .     _     . 20-
Messrs. Wtnn and Chstance's Adegas at Saoatem, near Lisbon 26
The "Vintage at the Quinta da Boa Vista, Alto Dohro.     . 35
Treading the Grapes at the Qhinta da Boa Vista, and the
    Adega oe the Qttinta da Boa Vista      .   .     .     .      38
The Qginta do Notal .        .     .         .     .    . 60-
Senhor Arnaldo de Sohza's Adegas at Celleiros      .    . 67
The Qrinta de Komaneira .          .     .   .     .    . 73.
The Qhinta da Bolda .        .     .     .   .     .    . 77
The Cach-Slo da Valleira     .     .     .    .    .    . 83-
Vineyards near the Boz do Sabor, in the Shpeeior Dottro . 84
(jBorp OP Vintagers at the Quinta do Noval   .     .    . 89
Vintagers Attending Mass at the Chapel op the Quinta do
    MOVAL       .      .     .     .     .     .      .     .     96.
The Bra dos Inqlezes at Oporto .          .      .    .     . 117
Messrs. G. G. Sandeman, Sons, & Co.'s Lodges at Villa Nota da
    GAIA, WITH THE SeRRA CONTENT IN THE DISTANCE       .    . 118
Interior op the Lodges op Messrs. G. G. Sandeman, Sons, & Co. 119
Messrs. Martinez, Gassiot, & Co.'s Cooperage           .      121
Interior op the Lodges op Messrs. Martinez, Gassiot, & Co. . 122
Messrs. Cookburn, Smithes, and Co.'s Lodges      .     •    . 124
Interior op the Lodges op Messrs. Cookburn, Smithes, & Co. . 125
The Lodges op Messrs. Ofpley, Forrester, & Co..       .     . 126
Interior op one op the Lodges op Messes.Oppley,Forrester,& Co. 127
General View op the Lodges op Messrs. Silta and Cosens . 126
Interior op the New Lodge op Messrs. Silta and Cosens . 129'
                         List of Page Illustrations.
                                                                    PAGE.

Messbs. SiiiTA MSB Co3Ejrs's Steam Coopeeage           .   i,   . 130
The Lodges op Messes. W.akd J. Geaham & Co. .      .    . 131
Inteeiob of the Lodges of Messes. W.and J. Geaham & Co. . 132
The Machihe Room of the Opoeto Steam Coopeeage Company 138
Dotrao Wine-Boats alongside the Qhat at Opoeto  .     . 144
Tbeading Geapes in the Lagae op Messes. Keohn Beos. at
      Santa Cehz, Madeiea        .     .     .         _   .•   .
The     Vintage at Me. Leacoce's Qhinta at Sao .Toao, near
      Funchal, Madeiea .         .     .     .         .   .    . 159
The Peinoipai, Madeiea Vinetaeds as seen from the Gaedens
   OP the Mount           .     .      .     .     .       .    . 173
The Aemazens and Coopeeage of Messes. Cossaet, Gordon, & Co. 182
Messes. Cosaset, Goedon, & Co.'s Estufas . .  .      . 184
The Aemazem dos Vinhos Velhissimos of Messrs. Cossaet,
      Goedon, & Co.       .     .     .      .     .       .    . igg
Inteeiob of the Aemazem of Messes. Keohn Beothees .             . 190
The Aemazens of Messes. Beandy Beothees      .     .            • 191
Inteeiob of the Aemazens of Messes. Blandy Beothees             • 192
Inteeiob of the Aemazem of Me. H. Deu Deuey        •            • 194>
The Aemazem and Coopeeage of Messes. Heneiqves, Lawton,
   AND Co.                                                          196




        VJf   '' > <




               l:„- i.
                         A LAGAB AT BTJCELLAS.




FACTS ABOUT POET AND MADEIRA,
       AVITH NOTES ON THE WINES YINTAGED ABOUND LISBON
                    AND THE WINES OF TENERIFE.



                                PART 1.

                          LISBON WINES.


                I. The Vintaging oe Btjcellas.

To Portugal by way of Madeira, the Canary Islands, and Cadiz—The Voyage-
    from Tenerife—An Hl-mannered Hidalgo, a French Merchant from the
    Slave Coast,the Dusky Heir to an African Throne, and a Gambling Inva
    lided Spanish Naval Lieutenant—A Series of Gorgeous Sunsets—Arrival
    at Cadiz—Smuggling for merelove of the thing—From Cadiz to Lisbon by
    Rail across the desolate-looking Sierra Moreua—Drivefrom the Peninsular
    City of the Seven Hills to the Vineyards of BuceUas—The Lisbon Streets
    at Early Morning—Pleasant Suburban Villages and Quiutas—Cottages
 14                           Lisbon Wines.


      and Gateways adorned with Pictured Tiles—Change in the Pastoral Aspect
      of the Country in the neighbourhood of the turbid llibiera da Beniposta—
      The Village of Bucellas—Visit to a Wine-Parmer—His Home and his
      Belongiugs—The Bucellas Vineyards—The Vintage and the Vintagers—
      The Casa do Lagar and how the Grapes are Pressed—Visit to the Adegas
      of Sandeman Brothers at the Quinta de Cabo lluivo—Varieties of Lisbon
      Wines there Stored, including the fresh-tasting Bucellas Hock.
    We made a long round on our voyage to Portugal,
 whither we were hound to tvitness the vintage in the broad j)laias
 aroimd Lisbon and on the rugged slopes of the Alto Pouro,
 for we had decided ujjon taking Madeira on our way in order
 to be present at the earlier vintaging of the wine which derives
 its name from the so-called Island of the Blessed'of the ancients.
 After the necessary sojourn at Madeira we intended proceeding
 direct to Lisbon, but found that steamers plying between the
 island and the mother country were so few and far between as to
 render a detour to the Canary Islands requisite. Here a steamer,
 we were assured, would sooner or later be found to convey us to
Cadiz, whence the journey to Lisbon could be readily accom
 plished either by sea or overland.
    After several days' enforced sojourn at Tenerife we steamed
-out of the harbour of Santa Cruz late one afternoon, and skirted
the island for several hours until the sun commenced to set,
streaking sky and sea alike with long fantastic bands of gold
and crimson. For a time in the twiUght we could distinguish
the tall dark cliffs of Tenerife, but soon the stars came out, the
moon tipped the rippling waves with silver, and the island
gradually faded from our view as our vessel sped swiftly onwards
for the Spanish shores.
    Among our fellow-passengers was the ex-Captain-General of
Teneiife, who had just been superseded, and who for a grandee
and an ofiBcer high in command was about as ill-mannered an
hidalgo as it was ever our fortune to come in contact with.
Another jjassenger was a wiry little Frenchman with well-waxed
moustaches—a merchant trading between Marseilles and the
•Slave Coast, where he hved the life of a native prince among his
harem of sable favourites and his body-guard of woolly-headed
                   Tlis Vintaging of Bucellas.                  15

"warriors. He "was accompauied by the heir to some African
throne,an intelligent lad of twelve or thii-teen years of age, whom
he was bringing to Europe to secui-e foV him the advantages of
a Parisian education. The merchant was of course a cabin pas
senger, but not so his sable highness, as the captain of the
steamer flatly refused to ship a negro, even were he a king, as
the occupant of a fij-st-class berth on board his vessel. The
dusky prince, therefore, had his quarters in the forecastle among
the sailors, who not only cruelly tormented him, but stole his
■cap and jacket to boot.
    A young Spanish naval oflicer, who aj)peared to be on intimate
terms with the French merchant, formed another of our pas
sengers. He was i-eturning home from Fernando Po on sick
leave, and being a born gambler, like the majority of his
counti'ymen, had indulged in high play at the club of Santa
Cruz, where he got cleaned out of his last dollar, and was only
^ble to quit the island on his friend from the Slave Coast comiug
to the rescue..
   The first night we remained on deck with several of the pas
sengers enjoying the cool refreshing breeze, but the commander
•of the steamer, with the naval oflhcer from Fernando Po, and
other kindred spirits, retired to the saloon, where gambling
went on until daybreak. Owing to contrary winds we were
nearly four days making the voyage, which was marked by
nothing more exciting than a series of gorgeous and varied
sunsets which filled the entire heavens on each succeeding evening
with their golden splendour. On reaching Cadiz the steamer
was at once boarded by the customary tribe of Andalusian
loafers, bent upon conveying the passengers and their luggage
■on shore at the rate of a dollar per head per minute for the ten
minutes which this proceeding occupied. Arrived at the Custom
house, the French merchant explained to the individual who had
brought his portmanteau that the latter contained a quantity of
 tobacco on which he wished to pay duty, but the man resolutely
 opposed his doing so, and hurriedly re-locking the portmanteau,
.swung it upon his shoulders and stalked unobserved out of the
16                       Lisbon Wines.


building, nearly knocking over a Custom-house officer who-
unconsciously barred his passage. The national love of smug
gling is so intense that- although no benefit was likely to accrue-
to the man,he could not resist lending his aid to so deshable an
object as cheating the revenue.
    At Cadiz we foimd that no steamer to Lisbon was likely to-
leave for several days, so we made the journey by rail—through
the land of olives and oranges, barbers and bull-fights, guitars,
and gitanos, mules and mantillas, fans and fandangos, and sere
nades and"serenos," as the watchmen in the south of Sj)ain are-
styled from their repeating from one year's end to the other the
monotonous intelligence that the night is a serene one. After-
fifteen hours' needless delay at Cordova we crossed the grand,,
desolate-lookiag Sierra Morena, and then the broad fertile
plateau of Estramadura—passing by Merida (the once famous
Eoman city of Emerita), with its still-existing Roman bridge of"
eighty-one arches, its vast ruined aqueducts and mutilated
Circus Maximus and temples of Mars and Diana. Two hours,
more and we were at Badajoz, and soon over the Portuguese
frontier to the foidified town of Elvas,where we were immediately-
struck -with the marked difference in the people, who are-
heavy in build, graceless in movement, and stolid-looking, with
none of that happy insouciance and careless grace of manner^
which distinguish their Spanish brethren on the other side oP
the river Cayad.
     We reached Lisbon soon after daybreak,and the same morning-
drove from the Peninsular city of the seven hills to the "vine
yards of Bucellas. There was plenty of animation in the streets:
numerous well-appointed two-horse cabs threaded their way
between the heavily-laden bullock-carts, with wheels of the
ancient Roman type, and the droves of cows on their way to be-
milked before every house-door. Bawling fisherwomen,balancing
tray-like baskets on their heads, sauntered leisurely along,,
hustled every now and then by Gallegos carrying barrels of
water on their bra-wny shoulders, while their fellows congregated
in scores round the chafarizes, or public fountains, to replenisk
                   Tlie Vintcujing of Bucellas.               17

their already empty receptacles. In the outsldrbs of Lisbon
moi-e bullock-carts were encountered, laden mostly with casks of
wine for storage in the numei'ous adegas outside the city limits.
We passed the Campo Pequeno—the Champ de Mars of the
Portuguese capital, as the Campo Grande, which we afterwards
drove through,is its Bois de Boulogne. On certain houses in the
suburban villages we noticed a ship figured in coloured tiles or
wrought into the ironwork of the balconies,to indicate that they
are the property of the Lisbon municipality. As we get more
into the country we pass sevei*al handsome-looking quintas with
elaborately-carved escutcheons over their entrance-gateways,and
vines trained in corridors forming a series of leafy arcades above
their boundary walls. Every now and then we meet gangs of
peasants bringing their little stores of agricultui-al produce to
market, the men in long cloth caps and the women in high,
undressed-leather boots, all of them riding sideways on their
horses or mules and carrying gay-coloured umbrellas. The
road is shaded with trees,and above most of the cottage doorways
are figures of the Virgin or some patron saint in antique tiles,
while let into the wall of a large quinta we observe an elaborate
composition representing a bellicose young St. Michael slaying
a most infuriate dragon. By-and-by, over the hedges of aloes,
we obtain a glimpse of tmdulating country—vineyards, olive-
groves, and market gardens, with their archaic Moorish norias
raising water from wells in earthenware jars tied round a lai-ge
wooden wheel. Then we pass the Quinta da Nova Cintra—a kind
of suburban tea-gardens, to which the Lisbon folk resort on days
of festival. All along the route we are struck by the number of
dismantled mansions and dilapidated houses—mementoes of the
disastrous civil war of 1826-33. Our way lies through Povoa de
Santo Adriao and Loures, past pleasant quintas with Scriptural
incidents depicted on antique tiles over the gateways, though
occasionally a bust of Pan or a figure of a vine-enwreathed
Bacchante takes their place. For a time the country continues
quite pastoral-looking, with vines, olives, prickly pears, and
canes studding the slopes in every direction; but it gradually
18                      Lisbon Wines.


assumes a -wilder character as we catch sight of the turbid
Eibiera da Bemposta, dashing between precipitous banks over
its rocky bed. After passing the highly-cultivated farm and
paper mills of Major Smith, an English settler in these parts,
we come upon the first -rineyards of the Bucellas district, with
most of its -yines exposed to a favourable southern aspect.
    The village of BuceUas, which boasts a shabby little pra9a
or public square, bordered by a few trees, has straggled from
the vaUey half-way up the adjacent hiUs. In front of its church
stands a plain stone cross, and olives and poplars seem to gird
it round. Our first visit was to Joao Pereira, a favourable type
of the Portuguese peasant -wine farmer. "We entered through
the low doorway, do-wn a single steep step, into the ordinary
living-room of the family, where the o-wner's comely -wife and
daughter—^beauty,it may be ungallantly noted,is rare among the
fair sex in Portugal—were engaged in household affairs. There
was the usual huge chest of maize—^the Portuguese peasant's staff
of life—^with bits and bridles hung against the walls, and in one
corner an old-fashioned gim. We were ushered up a stone
staircase into a room above, the bare whitened walls of which
were set off -with red stencilled borders, their sole remaining
decoration being a little picture of Christ bearing His cross.
Beyond the usual plain chairs and table the room contained
several articles of handsome old-fashioned furniture, which,
doubtless, came from one of the dismantled mansions in the
neighbourhood. Our Bucellas -wine-grower was a stalwart,
handsome man, with well-chiselled features,jet black hair and
beard,and complexion of the colom' of mahogany. He wore blue
trousers elaborately patched—harlequin's pants are the rule -with
aU below the middle class in Portugal—undressed-leather boots,
a crimson sash, and a clean white shirt, evidently put on for the
occasion. We accompanied him to his -vineyard, some little
distance up the valley, meeting on the way oxen toiling along
the heavy road -with vats fuU of grapes gathered up the neigh
bouring slopes. There had been much heavy rain lately, and
the men -vintagers in high boots and gaiters, and the women.
                    The Vintaging of Bucellas.                  19

■with bare feet, -were anlde-deep in mud in the clayey goil of the
Icwer vineyards. They cut off the grapes ■with knives and threw
them into small baskets, ■which, as soon as filled, were emptied
into larger ones, the latter being carried on men's backs direct to
the pressing-house when this was no great distance off.
   The Bucellas ■vines are chiefly of the arinto variety, which is
commonly believed to be the same as the riesling, the prevalent
grape on the banks of the Shine. The bei-ries are small and
round, the bunches long and veiy compact. Interspersed among
the vines are a few black grapes, which are rarely pressed
separately. In this particular vineyard the vines were on an
average twenty years old, and they "will bear, we were told, "until
their hundredth year. The shoots, after having been planted
for three years, yield a fair supply of fruit. The rule is not to
manure the vines, which seem to be allowed to run a good deal
to wood. We noticed that the upper and more favourable slopes,
which offer a natural drainage—an important advantage con-'
sideriug the nature of the soil and the antipathy of the vine to
moisture—were rarely planted with vines, and on inquiring the
reason were informed that this was simply because the labour
would be greater than on the lower grounds. From the 20th
of July until the end of the "vintage the Bucellas "vineyards are
carefully watched by local guards armed with rusty fii-elocks,
who are paid by subscription among the vine proprietors. The
men who perform the hard work of the vintage, such as carrying
the baskets of grapes to the pressing-house when no buUock-cart
is available for the purpose, and there treading and pressing
them, receive 240 reis, or 13d., per day, while the women get
about 9d. Neither food nor lodging is pro"vided for them, as
they all live in the immediate neighbourhood. New "wine, when
drawn off the lees in the follo"wing spring, -without any spirit
being added to it, fetches on the spot from .£12 to £16 the tun
of about a couple of hundred gallons. The purchaser has to
send his own empty pipes and pro"vide the bullock-carts for con
veying the wine to Lisbon. The average annual produce of the
Bucellas district proper is a little over 1,000 pipes.
20                        Lisbon Wines.


   From tlie vineyard we proceeded to the casa do lagar, or
pressing-house, which had a little black cross painted on the
stone lintel of the doorway as a protection against the evil one.
The lagar, a square stone trough holding some five or six pipes,
was raised a few steps from the ground, on a level with which was
a small stone reservoir to receive the expressed juice as it filtered
from an opening in the lagar through a wicker basket. Hanging
over the lagarwas the usual cumbersome beam,bythe aid of which,
and of the upright wooden screw fixed in.a block of stone in front,
the grapes were pressed after being thoroughly trodden with the
feet. The lagar was in course of being filled; and men, clad in
short woollen jackets, sheepskin overalls, low round hats with
tassels, or blue caps with red embroidered borders, kept arriving
with baskets full of grapes and shooting them into the shallow
trough, while one of their fellows standing in the centre spread
them out with a rake,preparatory to their being trodden. Before
leaving Bucellas we visited other vineyards and other lagars of
larger dimensions, including one belonging to the widow of
Senhor Maria Jesus Coelho, whose steward provided us mth
luncheon laid out on the head of a cask, and regaled us with
Bucellas of marked etherous flavour some seventeen years old.
    The largest shippers of Bucellas to England are Messrs.
Sandeman Brothers, of Lisbon, whose stores, about an hour's
■drive outside the city, are at the Quinta de Cabo Kuivo—in other
words, the Eed Cape. The pleasant villa residence stands in a
charming ten-aced garden girt round with corridors of vines,
and overlooking the broad waters of the Tagus. A long flight
•of steps leads down to the adegas, where ranged on either side
are tims containing from six to fourteen pipes of red wines, and
pipes of 117 gallons each filled with Bucellas, Carcavellos, and
other white growths, vintaged in the neighbourhood of Lisbon.
We were most curious with regard to the Bucellas, and tasted
some of the preceding year's wines remarkably fresh in flavour
 with a slight greenish tinge of colour, and in many respects the
 coimterpart of a youthful hock. The older wines were rounder
and more aromatic ; their flavour, which was more pronounced.
TI-IE ADEGAS OF MESSRS. SANDEMAN BROTHERS AT THE QUIHTA HE CABO RUIVO, NEAR LISBON.
                                                                                05. 20.)
                                    ■WWW"/;




k':. I'rU'.'j'




                                                                •'■:«■



                                         v." "•




        i'j'h y.wi




                     7. '< V' - '




                                                                         r   '^a
                                              1.^'V^ iV.ilA .
                   The Viniacjincj of Bucellas.                 21


left a soft, almondy after-taste; still they retained all that
pleasant freshness which only a wine without adventitious spirit
is likely to display. Certainly purer wines than these are not easdy
met with. No spirit is added to them during the process of
vinification or on the eve of shipment; neither are they plastered
or sweetened and coloured by artificial means. Being the best
wines of their class they are shipped to England under the
appropriate title of"El Rey—Royal Bucellas Hock"—El Rev
signifying "the King," and the term Hock accurately charac
terising the wines, which have nothing in common with the
heavy spirituous Bucellas of old. The remaining wines shown
to us at the Quinta de Cabo Ruivo included a Freixial vintaged
just beyond the Bucellas district, and somewhat resembling
Manzanilla in flavour; an Arinto very dry and nutty-like, with
a pleasant after-pimgency; and some white Lisbon remarkably
sweet and potent, together with a topaz-tinted white Carcavellos
having a fine flavour with an expansive bouquet, and a much
older growth which had developed into a luscious, mellow
dessert wine.




                        bttcellas wine-caet.
                COIiLiEES EEOM THE EOAD TO CINTEA.




  II.—COLLAEES, ToEEBS VeDEAS, THE TeEMO, CaMAEATE,
                  Caecavellos, and Laveadio.
The Drive to Cintra—The Portuguese Bscorial—Pate of the Steam-ploughs
    designed for Queen Donna Maria's Model Farm—The use to which the
    Steam-plough is put by the mild Hindoo—The Beauties of Cintra—The
    Vineyards of Collares—The Adegas of Almocegema and the Newly-vin-
    taged Collares Wine—The Growths of Torres Vedras and of the Termo of
    Lisbon—The Wine of Camarate—Messrs. Wynn and Custance's Adegas
    at Sacavem—The Various Wines shipped by the House—Uprooting of
    A'ines by order of the Marquis de Pombal—^Ancient Benaissance Fountain
    —The Lavradio Vineyards and Wines—Mr. Cresswell's Stores at Morta—
    Past and Present Consumption of Lisbon Wines.
   The day after my excursion to Bucellas I started off in
searcli of the vineyards of Collares, yielding a pleasant red wine,
possessing somewhat the character of a full-bodied Beaujolais,
and very generally consumed at Lisbon. The village of Collares
is a few miles beyond Cintra, famed for its remarkable natural
beauty and charming views, over which every.Portuguese tourist,
following Lord Byron's lead,apparently feels bound to go into rap-
      Collarea, Torres Vedras, the Termo, Camarate, ^c.      23

tures. Beyond some grandiose villas and gardens in tlie environs
of Lisbon tbe drive offered nothing particularly interesting—the
gigantic aqueduct,supplying the city with water, the countless
dismantled windmills perched on all the hills for miles, and the
i-emains of Mr. Albert Grant's unlucky tramway forming the
principal objects of curiosity along the route, which runs for
many miles through a purely corn-growing country, varied by
•occasional orange groves and orchards.
    After the little village of PorcaDiota is passed through the
road to Cintra branches off to the left, while the main road con
tinues to Mafra, famous for its vast palace, the Portuguese
Escorial, on the roof of which an aimy of 10,000 men, it is said,
could be drilled. Near Mafra the late Queen Doima Maria IL
established a model farm, and when some steam-ploughs and
threshing-machines imported from England were on their way
thither from Lisbon they were attacked by a mob of infuriated
peasants, who smashed them to pieces despite the protection
afforded by an escort of troops. The mild Hindoo, although
equally averse with the Portuguese peasant to have his anti
quated system of tiUing the soil interfered with, treats these
scientific implements in a far more respectful fashion. According
to Dr. George Birdwood, when a steam-plough was introduced
into the Presidency of Bombay it was borne in procession to the
fields, wreathed with roses, while all who went to see it were
 similarly adorned and sprinkled with attar as well. No practical
 use, however, was made of the implement,but after a time it was
 placed in the village temple, where it had its great steel share
 bedaubed red, and was thenceforward worshipped as a God.
     On branching off beyond Porcalhota we passed near to
 ■Queluz, a pleasant summer palace of the king's, with gardens
 modelled after those of Marly, and thence across a hilly country
 to Eamalhao and the viUage of Sao Pedro, eventually reaching
 Cintra, which, with its happy combination of Mauresque palace,
 villas, rocks, woods, glens, sea, plain, and mountain, is, doubt
 less, deserving of all the encomiums that Lord Byron and others
 ■have lavished upon it.
 24                           Lisbon Wines.


         "The lion-id crags by toppling convent crowned
          The cork-trees hoar that clothe the shaggy steep,
            The mountaiu-moss by scorching skies embrown'd,
            The sunken glen, whose sunless shrubs must weep.
            The tender azure of the unruffled deep,
            The orange tints that gild the greenest bough.
            The torrents that from cliff to valley leap.
            The vine on high, the willow branch below,
        Jlix'd in one mighty scene, with varied beauty glow."

      From Cintra tlie road winds along pleasant green sylvan
lanes, and ttence througli the cork woods to Collares, where, to
our surprise, not a single vineyard was to be seen. The vines,in
fact, are planted some six miles north-west of the village on the-
slopes of the hills skirting the Atlantic, and more particularly
in the valleys opening to the sea, nigh to the precipitous head
land known as the Pedra d'Alvidrar. The vineyards cover an
area of about three leagues; but we foimd the vintage was already
over, so all we could do was to visit the establishments of"
some of the principal growers in the neighbouiing village of'
Almocegema. We first went to that of Senhor Francisco da
Costa, where everything betokened intelligent care in all the
various processes of vinification. Here we were told that the
recent vintage showed a falling-off to the extent of one-thii-d or-
more,this particular grower having vintaged only thirty pipes in
lieu of fifty. The new wine was still continuing its fermenta
tion in the adega, in butts of the capacity of five pipes, and-
would thus remain until it was drawn off the lees in January.,
The grape from which Collares is principally produced is known
locally as the ramisco, but a white variety of the wine is made-
from a mixture of the arinto, castello, and dona branca. Only a
small quantity—that is, from fifty to eighty pipes—of this latter
■wine is produced, the white grapes being usually mingled with
the black in the lagar when red Collares is being vintaged.,
The white wine is pale in colour, soft, fresh-tasting, pleasantly
dry, and altogether is not unlike a Grave; whereas the red
variety that we tasted here had somewhat the character of a.
thin Burgundy.
   Out next visit was to the lagares and adegas of Henrique-
      Collares, Torres Vedras, the Termo, Camarate, &c.          25-

Thomaz,"wlio had made as many as 600 pipes of red Collares this,
year, his practice being to press not only the gi'apes from his
own vineyards, but to buy the produce of neighbouring vine
yards for a lump sum, charging himself with the picking and
pressing of the fruit. He regarded the recent vintage as a
favourable one, the wine exhibiting plenty of colour, which in
the case of red wines is always a great considei'ation with Por
tuguese growers. His plan is to rack his wine four times in the-
course of the year, in tuns holding five pipes each, by which
means he gets it clear without having recourse to finings. His
price for Collares of the preceding year's vintage was ^£16 per pipe,
whereas nine months before he was selling the same Avine for ^£10..
    The local consumption of Avine passing under the name of
Collares is very considerable, and to meet the demand other
districts, the wines of which are not held in the same esti
mation, are largely drawn upon. Chief among these is th©
prolific Avine-producing region of the world-famed Torres Ve
dras. This district, which includes the communes of Lourinha
and Mafra, and extends thence northwards, yields nearly a
million and a-half gallons of wine annually, and supplies two-
thirds of the ordinaiy wine drunk in Lisbon, besides furnishing-^
a considerable proportion of the high-coloured,rather full-bodied
and neutral-tasting red Avines exported in such large quantities
to Prance for mixing Avith the pale and poorer growths of th©
northern Avine-groAving departments.         The Torres Vedras
growths are very varied in character, from the diversified nature
of the soil, the aspect of the slopes, and the alluvial lichness of
the plains. Certain of them are soft and sweetish in flavoiu',
light in colon]', and altogether less vinous in character than
others. This arises from the grapes being picked from theii"
stalks before they are thrown into the lagay, and from the must
not fermenting sutficiently long on the smaller stalks and skins
—with a view of the wine absorbing less tannin .and thus being
fit for early consumption.
   A considerable quantity of Avine is vintaged in the immediate
environs of Lisbon, and more especially in the district north and
26                       Lisbon Wines.


west of the city, known as the Tenno, which, composed of a suc
cession of hills and dales, famishes ample sites for the cultiva
tion of the vine. The Termo wines, like those of Torres Vedras,
owing to the variety of soils and aspects and the different
systems of cultivation pursued, vary very much in character,
some heing singularly robust and full-bodied, while others are
thin and somewhat feeble. Higher up the Tagus, and in the
direction of Bucellas, are the vineyards of Olivaes—taking its
name from the abundance of olive-trees in the district—
Camarate, Appella9ao, Friedas, TJnhos, and Tojal, all the wines
of which go commonly under the name of Camarate and find a
ready market at Lisbon as vinhos de mesa, or table wdnes. They
have an agreeable flavour, and when old bear some resemblance
to the unfortified wines of the Douro. In visiting this district
we passed through Sacavem, a little village near the Tagus, at
the entrance of the picturesque valley of Unhos, through which,
a sluggish stream known as the Sacavem winds its muddy course.
     Here are some considerable stores for Lisbon wines belonging
to Messrs. Wynn and Custance, who export largely to Hussia
and the Baltic, and in a less degree to England and the
Brazils. In their adegas, which present a long vista of arches,
occasionally in solid masonry of immense thickness, sorue
couple of thousand pipes of wine are stored, including all the
wines of any note vintaged around Lisbon. Here were deep-
tinted Sacavem red wines, some of them dry and clean tasting,
and others extremely sweet; a rich and potent Arinto from the
same vineyards,the soil of which is darker and richer than in the
Bucellas district; red Lisbons and white Lisbons—the former
principally designed for the Brazihan market, while dry and
rich varieties of the latter are shipped to England, the more
luscious qualities—soft, sweet ladies' wines—going chiefly to
Russia and the Baltic. Here, moreover, was Bucellas in endless
variety, the younger wines pale in colour and fresh in flavour
and aroma; others more pronoimced, and even shghtly pungent
in taste; and others, again,mellowed and developed by great age.
Of the Carcavellos here shown to us, the wine of 1874 was soft
AIJiSSKS. WriV.VAiViJ CUSTANCK'S .VDJ-'- lS AT SA.C^IV2£M, KJ£A'X<.-JLISBOy.
                                                                               (A
'   V




        (*. ". «•
     Collares, To-n-es Vedras, the Tei-ino, Camarate, &c.     27

and agreeable, mtli a pleasant nutty aroma; a mucli older wine
had great body and a pronounced almondy flavour ; wHle a
still more ancient sample, alike powerful and concentrated,
had developed many of the characteristics of a fine old
Madeira.
    Carcavellos lies at the mouth of the Tagus, and its vineyards
are almost washed by both the river and the ocean. The wines
were formerly held in great repute, more especially those of
Oeiras, where the famous Marquis de Pombal—who caused his
indomitable will to prevail over all the teachmgs of pohtical
economy ^had a handsome quinta which, with its adega full of
ancient tuns,is still shown to the passing tourist. The Sacavem
wine-growers had little cause to like the stern and meddling
marquis, for he compelled them—in common with all the
vineyard proprietors between that place and Golegaa, near the
prolific viticultural district of Torres Novas, a distance of some
sixty miles—^to root up their vines in order to give room for the
more extensive cultivation of wheat. The vines, however, were
spGcdily rGplflJiljGd ajftcr  s disgio-cG.
    The last wine shown to us at Messrs. Wynn and Custance's
was a luscious old Muscatel, grown at Palmella, near Setubal,
where the most famous muscatel wines of Portugal are vintaged.
Adjoining Messrs. Wynn and Custance's adegas there is an
ancient fountain, the decorations of which in colom-ed tiles offer
a singular combination of the sacred and the profane. The
central subject is the Virgin with the infant Jesus in her arms,
benignly contemplating the burning of the wicked in the flames
of hell, while the Holy Ghost, symbolised by a dove, hovers in
the clouds over her head. On one side of this composition
are numerous lords and ladies in the costume of the seventeenth
century, prominent among whom are a couple of cavalheiros,
with drawn swords and of angry mien, evidently bent upon a
vigorous set-to.
    The vineyards of the Havradio district are on the opposite
side of the Bay of Lisbon, and extend almost from the shore for
some half-a-dozen nailes inland, occupying all the low sandy
  28                       Lisbon Wines.


  slopes, and occasionally the plains. The railway runs through
  them, and at the time of our visit numerous small bands of"
  vintagers were busy among the scattered patches of vines, which
  are allowed to sprawl and straggle at will over the ground,
 dotted here and there with isolated fig and olive ti'ees, and.
 skirted by pine-groves. The Lavradio wines, great favourites with
 King Louis Philippe, are often full-bodied, as well as soft and.
 rich, the latter arising partly from the small,dark,thin-skinned,
 sweet bastardo grape entering into their composition, and partly
 from the addition of sweet wine, or from the fermentation of the
 wine itself being checked by the addition of spirit, in oi'der that
 it may conserve an exti'a amount of saccharine.    Mr. Cresswell,
 who owns the Qtunta do Esleiro Furado, some five miles from
 Lavradio, makes, however, a perfectly dry wine of considerable
 character, with a pleasant faint balsamic flavour. This -^vine is
 shipped by him under the name of Montijo, after the district
 where it is produced. His vineyard, from thirty to forty acres
in extent, will yield as many as 100 pipes of wine when all the
vines are in full bearing, although the year of our visit the
produce had been unusually small.
    Lisbon wines appear to have gone completely out of fashion
in England. A small quantity of Bucellas is still consumed;
hut of white Lisbon—so universally drunk at one time, as
Mr. Shaw tells us, by City men at limcheon—little is ever seen
now, whether of the rich, mellow, or dry variety.       The red
Lisbon wines never were particularly popular with us, though I
have no doubt that, mixed with poor thin French wines, we
drink them to-day (as clarets) to a hundredfold the extent we
ever did before. The unfortified Bucellas as now shipped is an
admirable wine, and only needs to be better known to como
rapidly into favour, especially as it can be retailed at a very
economical rate, while as regards such excellent red growths as
Collares, and wines of a similar type, it would surely be better
for us to import them direct, instead of receiving them through
France, after they have been emasculated by mixture with the
undrinkable vins veiis of our enterprising French neighbours.
                                        <-       ..• wrfiV-




               i




                THE QTJINTILEA PASS, BBEEA DO MAEAO.


                               PART II.


             IN THE POET WINE COITNTRT.

I. Off to the ITppeb Doueo: the Quinta da Boa Vista.
Eoxly Morning Glimpses from the Railway Train-Arrive at Oporto-Through
    the Provinee of Entre-Douro-e-Minho-Vinhos Verdes of the District-
    Oporto Shippers err route to the Port Wine Vintage-Pass through
    picturesque Amarante-Our Carriage drawn hy Bullocks up the Monntarn
    -Rugged nature of the Scenery-Reach the Quintilla pass-Troops of
    Beggars awaiting our an-ival-Descend the Mountain to Regoa-lts Vine-
    clad Hills scored with Stone Terraces—Cross the Upper Douro and ascend
    the River along its left hank—AVine-Boats making their difficnit passage
 30                     In the Port Wine Country.

      down the Stream—The Surrounding Hills terraced from base to summit,
      and covered with Vines—Carolling Vintagers and Screeching Bullock-
      carts—Mules halt at the Fountain while their Drivers tipple at the Venda
      —^Visit the Quinta da Boa Vista—The Vintage in full operation—Treading
      the Grapes—Vintagers brought from remote parts—Their Pay, Food,
      and Sleeping Accommodation—The Casa dos Lagares and Adega of the
      Quinta.
    It was niglit-time when I left Lisbon; and when day dawned
the train was rnnning past well-cultivated fields divided by
hedges, past patches of maize and ohve and orange trees, and
little white cottages shaded by arcades of vines, with groves of
pines stretching away in the distance where glimpses were caught
of the little chui-ch steeple and low white houses of some neigh
bouring town. Men and hoys were busy reaping maize, and
along the roads peasant-women in flat round hats, with shawls
mufiSed round their throats, but with their feet, as usual, bare,
were trudging, with big baskets balanced on their heads, to
market. Farther on the line runs by the verge of marshes,
giving glimpses of canals, along which farmer-fishermen propel
their high-prowed canoe-like boats beside the waving rice plan
tations ; then intersects a pine - foi-est, where bullock - carts,
whose drivers are oftener women and children than men, go
plunging through the sandy roads, and where pleasant peeps
are had, through the breaks in the trees, of quiet villages and
green sequestered nooks. At last the sea is sighted, and we
sweep past some bathing station, with its flimsy little houses and
tiny gay pavilions ; after which there is bttle else than a suc
cession of pine-woods up to the environs of Oporto, which bursts ■
suddenly into view, picturesquely perched on the crown of a
steep hill.
   Early the following morning we took the train to Cahide,
where a carriage was to he in waiting to convey us to the heart
of the Port-wine district.       After leaving Oporto the Entre-
Douro-e-Minho country is imdulating and fertile, though at times
covered with heath and overgrown with pines. The bttle stone
cottages are hemmed in by fruit-trees; while the vines run
along lengthy corridors or clamber up the trees at the borders
        Off to the Upper Bouro: the Qidnta da Boa Vista.         31

of the fields, hanging from them in long waving festoons. It is
from grapes thus grown far away from the roots of the vine,
and which never completely ripen, that the vinhos verdes, or
rough acidulous wines di'unk commonly throughout Portugal,
are made. The valley gradually widens, the hills grow loftier,
the country becomes more barren and wilder-looking, and
everywhere rocks are seen cropping up out of the soil. Stone
walls, too, divide the fields, the vines give place to fir-trees, and
distant mountains rise up before us grey, cold, and gloomy.
Whenever the train stops peasant-girls lay down their distaffs
and rush to gaze at it, and at most of the stations bread is being
hawked and keenly bargained for by hungry third-class pas
sengers. After a time the country becomes more fertile again:
little churches peer above the pine-woods, vines smother the
trees with theii* embraces, and, trained on trellises, subdue the
white glare of the farmhouses and cottages, in front of which
peasants are threshing the newly-harvested maize, or drying the
husked cobs in the burning sun. A little river rushing over its
rocky bed dashes down a series of steep falls and loses itself in
the windings of the valley, which soon expands into a wide
stretch of open country. At Cahide, where we quit the train,
several vehicles are in waiting to convey members of Oporto
firms to the Port-wine vintage in the Upper Douro. In Spain
these adventurous gentlemen would run the risk of being way
laid and marched up the mountains until ransomed; but in
the wildest and most solitary districts of Portugal there is no
fear of any such mishap as this befalling them.
    For a time it is something like a general race, until the
better-horsed vehicles, leaving the others far behind, go rattling
along the roughly-paved streets of the picturesque antique little
town of Amarante,noted alike for its wines and its peaches, and
which has one of its church towers in the form of the papal tiara,
and the open arcade of its grand Dominican church decorated
with life-size statues of potentates and saints. In this latter
edifice is a finely-sculptured efiigy of San Gon9alo, the patron
saint of Amarante, who charmed the fish out of the Tamega,
 32                 In the PoH Wine Country.

 tlaey say, to feed the crowd of workmen he had assembled to
                                                                     1
 build the bridge over that river, which got sadly knocked about
 by French cannon-balls some three-quarters of a century ago.
 Crossing the stream,after a time we come to a halt, and bullocks
 having been yoked to our carriage we commence ascending the
 hills, to the shaiq) shelving sides of which chestnut-trees are
 clinging, while farms and villages dot the green wooded valley
 do^vn below.
    As the road winds and mounts higher and higher huge rounded
 boulders and sharp jutting crags rise up among the gorse and
 heather; and when, eventually, our bullocks are unyoked and
 we dip down into the valley, a wall of mountains fading into
■deep shadowy grey and vapoury blue seems to shut us completely
in. We cross one bridge after another over the ravine, and
come upon vines again growing up the trees, with parties of
women, mormted on long light ladders, gathering the grapes,
while others convey the heavy baskets of fruit to some neigh
bouring lagar. The ascent now becomes much steeper; and,
•our horses being fastened to the rear of the vehicle, bullocks
•are again yoked to it to drag us to the summit of the Quintilla
pass, over the lofty Serra do Marao, 4,400 feet above the sea
level. A chubby young urchin, with a pink-check handkerchief
tied round his head and his jacket slung over his shoulder,
 marches proudly at the animals' heads waving his long goad to
 direct their course. Waterfalls dash over steep precipices, feed
ing the stream that turns the mill in the valley below, and cen
 tenarian chestnut-trees stretch their long arms across the road,
untU higher up the mountain oaks and ash-trees take their
place. Gradually the trees become fewer and fewer until only
'huge granite boulders are to be seen in the midst of the russet
bracken; and in another half-hour the summit of the pass is
reached, when the eye lights upon hills with smooth green
surfaces and soft wavy outlines, instead of sharp granite peaks
with barren sides. Here, while the bullocks are being removed
.and the horses are being harnessed to, a troop of whining beggars
 surround our vehicle and promise us their perpetual prayers for
      Off to the Upper Douro: the Qiunta da Boa Vista.          33

the modest consideration of a copper vhdem. Shortly after vrc
■commence the descent evening gathers in, and the remainder of
our journey is performed almost in darkness. Spite of appeals,
oaths, and promises, varied by smart applications of the whip,
our horses, although homeward bound, only succeed in reaching
Eegoa at nine o'clock at night.
   Kegoa is pleasantly situated on the Douro, or " Golden River,"
in the heart of what was formerly Imown as " the Feitoria," the
privileged district whence all the Port-wine sent to England was
obliged to come. Since this absurd line of demarcation was abo
lished in 1833, Port-wine shippers have been in the habit of going
above instead of below the point where the Corgo falls into the
Douro for their finest wines. The district which yields the wine
known to us as Port comprises not only the Upper Douro from
Basquieros, about a couple of leagues below Eegoa, but may be
said to extend as high up as the Quinta do Silho, on the Superior
Douro as it is called, where, however, only second-class wine is
vintaged. The lofty vine-clad hills which rise up around Eegoa
have their sides scored over with stone terraces, built up in order
to keep the loose argillaceous schistose soil in which the vines
are planted from being washed away by heavy rains. The vines,
which are placed wide apart, look like so many straggling
■currant-bushes provided with stakes for support.
   Crossing the Douro over the Eegoa bridge, we rode along a
well-made road on the left bank of the river, in the direction of
the Quinta da Boa Vista, having, in the course of a few huncDed
yards, the valley of the Corgo on oui* left hand and the little
river Baroza on our right; after which we pass the Mil Lobos
and Ceira streamlets, and finaUy the rivers Tedo and Tavora, with
the ancient town of Taboaco crowning the summit of the moun-
             the latter riler takes its rise. Beneath ns the
murmuring Douro courses swiftly over its rock-strewn bed,
rendering the passage of the one or two high-prowed, flat-
bottomed boats, laden with pipes of wine and steered with huge
rudders, that are sweeping swiftly down with the current, difficult,
if not exactly hazardous. A rudely-painted picture beneath a little
 34                 In the PoH Wine Country.




 roadside cross tells in exaggerated yet graphic fashion of the
 dangers of the navigation hereabouts.         along our route -we
 seem to he shut in by a chain of rounded hills,terraced from base
to summit, and covered with vines, whilst olive-trees border the
different quintas and occupy the deeper hollows. Occasionally
a gleaming white casa or little village, perched up the hill-side
breaks the wearying monotony. Bands of vintagers,too,singing
snatches of song, dot the stony slopes, or trudge with huge
baskets of grapes to the neighbouring lagares; bullock-carts
go creaking discordantly over the dusty road, and mules with
jingling bells halt to water at the wayside fountain, picturesquely
shaded by some weeping willow, while their drivers tipple and
gossip before the dirty venda, where the hanging bush indicates
that vinho verde, aguardente (brandy),and ginebra (gin) are on
sale.
    There is a ferry just below the Quinta da Boa Vista, and,
                    -■ '4^
f.
'Siii.T:.




            M 1(1




   m;;
THE VINTAGE AT THE QUINTA DA BOA VISTA, ALTO DOL'KO.
                                                       U- IS')
      Ojf to the Upper Bouro:the Quinta da Boa Vist<i.           35




               J




crossing tlie rirer, we ride up the rough steep road on the
opposite hank conducting to the quinta, where we meet with a
friendly reception from the agent of Messrs. Offley, Forrester,
and Co., to whom the Quinta da Boa Vista belongs. Here we
find the vintage in full operation, women with red-and-yellow
kerchiefs tied over their heads being scattered along the terraceo
engaged in detaching the bunches ofgrapes,which,after they have
removed the imsound frait, they throw into the small baskets
they carry on their arms. From these the larger baskets, hold
ing nearly a hundredweight, are filled; when men with sheep
skins thrown over their backs, and plaited straw knots on their
heads, hoist them on their shoulders, and, moving off in single
file, carry them down the rugged windiug paths and flights of
86                In the Port Wine Country.

stone steps to the large stone lagar, into which tliey are at once
shot. As each of the lagares at this quinta holds fifteen or
sixteen pipes,it takes a day or more,according to the number of
hands employed, to fill it. When this is accomplished to within
a few inches of the brim the gi'apes are spread about with hoes,
and a gang of some twenty treaders,with their trousers tucked up




                     THE QTTIltTA DA BOA VISTA.

 as high as possible,spring into the lagar,and,forming a line with
 their arms resting on each other's shoulders,commence treading
 the grapes with measured step,now advancing,now retiring, while
 the juice exudes and grapes and stalks become gradually reduced
 to a kind of pulp. This is a long and tedious operation, and
 usually continues day and night with but slight intermission.
      Off to the U^pper Bouro: the Quinia da Boa Vista.        37

   At the Quinta da Boa Vista the antiquated cumbersome
beam presses have been done away with, and screws, fixed in
the middle of the lagares after the fashion prevalent at Jerez,
supply their place. As the Alto Douro is very thinly populated,
and a large supply of labour is needed all at once for the vintage,
pickers and treaders have to be brought in from remote parts.
The vineyard proprietors employ an agent called a royador, who
musters the men and women from ten and even fifty miles
around. Many of the former come from Galicia, more especially
those who perform the heavier work, such as carrying the loads
of grapes to the lagar, for the male iJoasantry of the "Upper
Dom'o, though by no means idlers, shirk real hard labour. The .
vintagers, male and female, arrive at the scene of operations iu
gangs,'laTieing and singing on their way. The pay of the men
engaged at the Quinta da Boa Vista was at the rate of Is. 3d.
per day, while that of the women was no more than 6d. They
all provided their own bread, which most of them brought a
sufficient supply of to last while the vintage continued—usually a
period ofabout three weeks. Caldo,avegetable soup,was furnished
them, together with a moderate allowance of bacalhao, or salted
codfish, well-nigh the sole animal food of the Portuguese labom--
ing classes; while for drink they were indulged with the customary
agua pe,a weakish insipid liquor,made by throwing water on the
refuse skins and stalks of the grapes, and allowing the liquid to
ferment.
    In the Upper Douro the vintagers' ordinary meals consist
 of potato or bean and other vegetable soup, with a single
 sardine for breakfast; for dinner a similar soup, with a plate of
 boiled rice and a piece of salted codfish; and for supper soup
 and sardine as before. Most quintas have a covei'ed place called
 the refectorio for the vintagers to take their meals in. It
 should be mentioned that the pickers eat a vast quantity of
 grapes, which is one reason why their wages are rather low. At
 the Quinta da Boa Vista, as at all the better-class quintas in the
 Upper Douro, a rigid separation of the sexes at night-time is
 enforced, distinct outbuildings known as cardenhas being pro-
38                  In the Port Wine Country.

Tided for the men and the women to sleep in. These cardenhas
are usually large apartments with wooden berths—strewn with
straw, on which is laid a piece of sailcloth—ranged along their
sides. A woollen drugget is the ordinary covering, and this is
often large enough to serve for thirty people. When the weather
is cold a second drugget is provided.
    The Quinta da Boa Vista ranks among the best quintas of
the Upper Uouro. Neither pains nor expense have been spared
in its planting and cultivation and in improving the primitive
system of vmification which commonly prevails in this compara
tively inaccessible region. As already explained,the heavy beam
press has been supplanted by the more commodious and efficient
screw; while the lagares are so arranged that the must can be
run off through india-rubber tubes direct into the huge tonels,
which occupy a lower level in the adjacent adega. In the old-
fashioned lagares the must is emptied out of the stone reservoir
into the tonels by means of a canefo, or hooped wooden bucket
with a handle at its side—not only a waste of time and labour,
but, if anything, detrimental to the wine itself, which at this
epoch is still in a state of fermentation. Unfortunately the Boa
Vista vineyard, which in good years used to give fifty or sixty
pipes of fine wine, was attacked some five years ago by the
phylloxera, and its production has now fallen off considerably.




     t . I.'   J!
TREADING 1 HE GRAPE i AT TH   QITINTA DA BOA VISTA.




                   i:2SS>1




THE ADEGA OF THE QUINTA DA BOA VISTA, ALTO DOURO.
                                                 (A 38.)
  h-, ■




(*•
            i




                         THE QEINTA DOS AEEEGADAS.



        11. Buying New Wine,           A Toub of Inspection.

  We Beeross the Douro—A Ride in the Dark to the Quiata dos Arregadas—A
      Morning Levee of Neighbonring Farmers—Testing their Samples of Wine
      —Generally impoverished condition of the Alto Douro Wine-Growers—
      Terms upon which the Wine is purchased—Start on an Excursion up the
      Douro—The Eoads mere Bridie-Paths and Bullock-Tracks—Visit a Quinta
      in the famous Boriz District—Mode of taking a Sample of the Mew Wine
      —Vintage Quarters of a well-to-do Douro Farmer—Bide on to the Quinta
' do Caedo—Its owner an ancient adherent of Queen Dona Maria Treading
      the Grapes to a tinkling Guitar—An Alto Douro Luncheon Some of the
      luxuries composing it.

     After a day or two's sojourn at tlie Quinta da Boa Vista
  I remoTod to the Quinta dos Arregadas, on the opposite bank of
  the Douro,and the head-quarters during the vintage ofthe notable
  firm of Messrs. G. G. Sandeman and Sons. As very few shippers
40                In the Tort Wine Conntry.

have qtdntas of their own, it is the prevailing practice for them
or their agents to instal themselves during the season of the-
vintage in the casa of some quinta the wrine of which they
annually buy. Thence they sally forth on their daily tours of
inspection, visiting vineyards and lagares for miles around, and
satisfying themselves that the wines they have agreed to pur
chase are being carefully and honestly made. The task is often
a most laborious one, stiU it is always scrupulously perfonned.
     It was dusk when we crossed the Douro, which was lighted
up from time to time by vivid flashes of lightning. After a
short ride along an admirable road, we turned up by the edge of
a nan-ow ravine and followed its zigzag bridle-path, now between
now over jutting rocks,trusting entirely, as we were forced to do
iu the gloom, to the sagacity of our horses. Arrived at the
qiiinta, after a late dinner, accompanied, according to established
rule, by the choicest of tawny Port, we were sung to sleep on oui-
hard straw mattresses by carolling vintagers, who had made
themselves comfortable for the night, and the following morning
were present at a levee of farmers, who, with umbrellas under
their arms and sample-bottles in their saddle-bags, rode up to
the quinta on horses, mules, and ponies, more or less eccen
trically caparisoned. The casa here is a singularly modest little
place, but, as if to compensate for its want of stateliness, it is.
approached up a long and massive flight of stone steps that
might serve as an approach to a temple. At the foot of these
steps and under the large entrance-porch the farmers lounged
until their turn came to submit their samples. They were for-
the most part rigged out in their Sunday best—in the felt hats,,
tweed suits, shooting and cutaway coats of the Jew slopseller,
with nothing in the least degree national or characteristic about
tliem. Whenever the commissario of the firm made his appear
ance each new-comer raised his hat and advanced to greet him
with a cordial shake of the hand.       One by one they were
ushered into what I presume was the drawing-room of the-
casa—gaily decorated with red doors, broad blue mouldings, and
pale sea-green ceiling, the effect of which naturally was to-
r"
          Buying Netv Wine.     A Tour of InspecHooi.         41




                       DOUEO WINB-EABMEH3.


 render the bare whitewashed walls of the apartment unusually
 conspicuous. Each sample of wine was tested as regards
 colour hy pouring it into a large white saucer with a high
 convex centre,down which it slowly trickled as it was poured out,,
 displaying whatever depth or brilliancy of colour—^usually a deep
 rich magenta—that it might possess. The saucer was after
 wards agitated in order that the wine might form layers by which
 its homogeneity or the reverse could be ascertained. Colour and
 consistency being found satisfactory,the next test was the odour..
 Then came the tasting—an operation only to be performed satis
 factorily by an expert in the case of so recently made a wine..
 Merely to judge whether the wine was sweet or dry was, of
 course, a very simple matter. The various tests having been
 gone through,consultations were held; and so soon as a decision
 was arrived at the contents of the saucer w^ere flung out of the-
42                In the Port Wine Country,

open window,and a fresh sample was submitted for examination.
In all cases the question of price seemed to be very speedily
settled. It was a little painful to watch the faces of the farmers
when the decision went-against their wine ; for since the Alto
Douro vineyards have been ravaged by the phylloxera, and there
have been several years of othei*wise bad vintages, the farmers
as a rule have become greatly reduced in circumstances, and
many of them so far impoverished as to need to sell their wine
offhand to meet pressing necessities. Each one, as he quitted
the audience-chamber and passed down the long flight of stone
steps, had his coimtenance anxiously scanned by his neighbours;
while his more intimate acquaintances sounded him as to how
he had fared, doubtless with a view of profiting by whatever
information they might succeed in extracting from him.
    It is the custom in the Upper Douro when a sale of wine is
effected to make a payment,known as"the signal," of one pound
sterling per pipe to the farmer, so as to clinch the bargain. In
the following spring, when the wine is ready for being drawn from
the large tonels into which it has been run fi'om the lagares to
complete its fermentation,empty pipes are sent up to the farmer,
and the agent of the shipper sees to the wine being duly measured
mto them. Usually, as soon as the river floods have subsided,
the pipes are sent down the Douro to the shipper's stores at Villa
Nova de G-aia, a transpontine suburb of Oporto. On the vessel
being loaded, the farmer receives one-third of the remaining
purchase-money, another third is paid to him at Midsummer,
and the balance at Michaelmas, the latter payment furnishing
him with funds to meet the expenses of the ensuing vintage.
     The levfe concluded, we mounted our horses for an excursion
to several quintas higher up the Douro, the wine of which is
regularly purchased by the Messrs. Sandeman. Our party was
rather a large one, comprising a couple of members of the firm
and their able commissario, and including altogether half a dozen
horsemen, each with his attendant arrieiro to take charge of
the horses whenever we required to dismount. We descend the
hill on which the Quinta dos Arregadas is perched by a break-
                   Buying New Wine.   A Tour of Inspection.   43


                                              :,
  i '■




      >&?S   c'.




 M!ic:-.w///^




                            AN ALTO DOUfiO EGAD.


neck road, apparently formed by scattering some masses of
rock along one of the many dried-up gullies that intersect the
motmtain slopes. After crossing a substantial stone bridge
over the Eio Torto, which here faUs into the Douro, we proceed
for about a mile along the one excellent macadamised road
44               In the Port Wioie Country.

following tte com-se of tlie river. When we ai-rive opposite to
Pinhao—an important village situated at the confluence of the
little river of the same name with the Donro, and whence
considerable shipments of Port wine are made to Villa Nova—
the highway abruptly terminates, and our course lies hencefor
ward along hridle-paths and bullock-tracks—which only in
irony could he termed roads—with the swift and muddy Douro
flowing beneath. We pass the Quinta de Carvalhas: its casas
lying low down the vine-clad mountain side, half hidden among
clustering trees. Suddenly we leave the river and wind up a
rock-strewn precipitous causeway, along which our horses,
accustomed to such difficult tracks, pick their way with mar
vellous dexterity. Perched high above us, brightly gleaming
among the olives and the vines, is the Quinta da Teixeira,
whither we are hound, hut where we make hut a brief stay, as
the vintage had not yet commenced.
    We return again to the hanks of the Douro, and, after
following the course of the river for a considerable distance,
arrive at the famous district of Koriz. Here we dismount at a
quinta belonging to Senhor Senna, and, ascending a long flight
of steps, find ourselves on the threshold of the casa dos lagares,
where a score of men,high above their knees in a clammy purple
hath, are treading grapes to the sound of fife and drum. The
music suddenly ceases as we enter, and the treaders, pausing
from their work, regard us with an air of curiosity. On the
owner of the quinta, a square, hent, grey-headed old man,
making his appearance they speedily resume their movements,
 raising one leg after the other as, with fife and drum playing
 briskly, they half march,half dance,round the large lagar. The
 large white saucer with its raised centre is now produced in
 order that we may taste the wine; and one of the treaders
 lifting up his brawny leg and carefully balancing himself, the
 saucer is held beneath his dripping foot to receive the mosto as
 it trickles down. This is now submitted to a general inspec
 tion and tasting, while the amount of saccharine contained in it
 is ascertained by means of the saccharometer. The quarters in
         Buying New Wine.      A Tour of Inspection.        45




                 TAKING- A SAMPLE OP NEW ^VINB.

wlaicli the owner of the qiiinta had installed himself for the
vintage were neither luxurious nor inviting. In the comer of a
long low room over the adega—in a kind of granary, in fact,
strewn with baskets, monster pumpkins, and sacks of maize,
rice, and potatoes—^were an iron camp bedstead, a couple of old
ohairs, and a table; and with such poor accommodation as this
a well-to-do Douro wine-farmer is perfectly content. Senhor
Senna informed us that his vines had suffered but slightly from
the phylloxera; still he expected to vintage only eighty pipes
instead of the hundi-ed which his vineyard commonly yielded.
    Mounting our horses again, we wind rotmd the sides of a
ravine, always surrounded by stone terraces and vines, leaving
 46                l7i the Port Wine Country.

 the Douro—on the opposite banks of which are the famous
 quintas of Bomaneira and Eoncao,shaded by cypress and orange
 trees—in our rear.   After an hour or more of difficult ridinsr
 up rude stone staircases, at which a Leicestershire squire would
 gaze with horror, we reach the Quiuta do Caedo, belonging to
 Senhor Francisco Seixas, a gaiTulous, excitable old gentleman
 and ancient adherent of Queen Dona Maria, fighting in whose
 cause he received a bullet which entered his cheek and passed
 out at his neck, leaving behind it ugly scars, whicb remain to
 this day. He calculated upon vintaging as many as 160 pipes
 of wine from his various vineyards. Here the. treading of the
 grapes was going on vigorously to the sound of a tinkling guitar
strummed on by some ancient minstrel, the men smoking,
whistling, and singing, while a crowd of young women posted
before the open windows chimed merrily in. Am adjoining
lagar, where the grapes had been already trodden, was so full of
the expressed juice—on the snrface of which the skins and
stalks of the grapes were floating in a compact mass—that it
had to be banked up with tiles round the edges to prevent
the mosto from flowing over.
    In anticipation of our visit luncheon had been prepared by
the owner of the quinta, and to this we were now invited
in a room hung round with festoons of grapes for table use
during the coming winter. If ever a table really groaned, as
tables are often said to do, the one we sat down to might
fairly have done so, imder the weight of fatted turkeys, ducks,
fowls, red-legged partridges, sucking-pigs, and juicy hams,
together with cheeses made from sheep's milk, sponge-cakes of
incredible dimensions, quince, peach, and pum[)kin preserves,
olives, apples, and huge bunches of luscious purple grapes. At
a feast like this, in a remote corner of the Upper Douro, Port
wine, as may be supposed, was your only liquor—the traditional
cup of cold water was not to be had even if you prayed for it—
but it was Port of the grand vintages of 1834 and 1858. Alto
gether it was hospitality in riot, and prayers and remonstrances
at the profuse way in which your plate was constantly being
          Buying New Wine.       A Tour of Inspectimi.         47

piled up were alike unavailable. Before you bad swallowed a
few moutbfuls of turkey, or bad touched tbe ribs of sucking-pig
witb wbicb you bad been simultaneously helped, you found a
plump partridge in tbe middle of your plate, and if you only
tiimed your bead aside for a moment a slice of bam as thick as
an average beefsteak would be placed on tbe top of it. For
tunately there wei'e a couple of hungry lurchers in tbe room,
and unperceived we shared witb them tbe superfluities wbicb
fell to our lot at this over-bounteous banquet.
    It was nigh five o'clock when we quitted tbe Quinta do Caedo
and struck tbe high road sldi-ting tbe Kio Torto. Here a couple
of us separated from tbe remainder of tbe party, who were boimd
still higher up tbe Douro, to proceed to ibe Quinta do Seixo,
adjacent to tbe Quinta dos AiTegadas, from wbicb we bad
started that morning. Tbe way to Ervedoza having been
pointed out to us, and a coiqDle of arrieiros instructed to serve
as our guides, we rode leisurely down tbe mountain-side, passing
droves of donkeys witb pigskins full of common wine strapped
across their backs. On we proceeded imagining our guides were
loitering behind until we reached tbe village, when, dusk having
by this time set in, we baited at tbe fountain to water our horses
and await tbe coming of our arrieiros. Long we lingered here,
ignorant of tbe road we ought to take; still our men failed
to turn up. In very limited Portuguese we inquired for a guide;
but a heavy storm appeared to be threatening, and none was to
be obtained. At length, when it bad grown quite dark and
people were groping their way about tbe village witb lantems,
we asked to be conducted to some inn. Tbe best accommodation
tbe miserable little place afforded was readily placed at our dis
posal. It consisted of a couple of small compartments, boarded
off from a large granary strewn witb sacks of grain and potatoes,
and grapes and figs laid out on straw mats to dry. Scarcely were
we under shelter when tbe rain came down in torrents; and when
at daylight on tbe following morning we resumed our journey,
witb tbe landlord of tbe inn mounted on bis mule for guide, tbe
roads bore ample testimony to tbe deluge of tbe previous night.
                        THE CitriHXA DO SEIXO.


                 III. How Poet Wine is Made.
The Quinta do Seixo—Its commodious and well-arranged Casa, Lagares, and
    Adega/—Vintagers Singing the popular ditty"Marianinha" Prevalence of
    Celtic, Jewish, and Moorish faces among them—The Women frequentlj
    decked out in heavy Jewellery—The Casa dos Lagares of the Quinta—A
    gang of Sixty Treaders at Work—Theysing and shout to encouragethe weak
     and lazy—Are accompanied by Drum, Fife, Fiddle, and Guitar Nips
   ■ of Brandy and Cigarettes served round—The first Ti'eading, the SovM o
     vinho," or Beating the Wine, is completed—Interval of rest—Treading
    resumed in a listless fasHon—Music loses its Inspiration and Authority its
    Terrors—Fermentation of the Mosto—The Wine is run offinto the Tonels—
    Clears itself in the Cold Weather—Is Racked into Pipes and sent down to
    the Wine-hoats—The Alto Douro Bullock-carts and their unearthly"Clul-
    dreda"—Loading the Wine-hoats—The Rapids they encoimter on the
    Voyage to Oporto—Skilfulness of the Steersmen—Characteristics of the
    Douro Boatmen—Their Toil when Ascending the River.
    The Quinta do Seixo, the headquarters for the vintage of
Messrs. Cockbum, Smithes, and Co., whose hospitality we expe
rienced on more than one occasion, is one of the most important
in the Upper Douro, having prior to the inroads of the phyl-
                   How Port Wine ie Made.                         49


loxera yielded as many as tliree liundred pipes of high-class
■wine. It occupies the spurs and slopes of a mountain, one side
of which bounds the Dom-o, and the other the Rio Torto Talley.
Scattered over the heights above are the white cottages of the
■village of Valen9a, the vineyards of which produce a considerable
quantity of first-class wine. The buildings of the Quinta do
Seixo, which is entered through an imposing ga^teway, sur
mounted by the annoiial bearings of its owner, are very exten
sive. The casa is both commodious and well arranged, and has
a certain air of pretension about it, while the lagares and the
adega are on a scale proportionate to the extent of the sxuTOund-
ing vineyard. On the left bank of the Rio Torto ai-e the capa
cious lodges, in which the wine vintaged here and in the
surrounding districts is stored until it is ready for shipment at
the adjacent so-called port of Bateiras, situate at the junction of
the Rio Torto -with the Douro. The vintage at the Quinta do
Seixo was at its height, and a considerable number of hands
were engaged in it. From the roomy terrace where the casa and
lagares are situated one looks do^wn upon a long flight of descend
ing ten-aces of -vines, dotted over -with a score or two of vintagers,
singing melodiously in a loudish key the favourite ditty of
" Marianinha"—
                      "Mariana diz que tern
                        Sctc saias de riscado—
                       Desengane o sen amor,
                       E nao o ti-aga enganado.
                      "Mariana diz qne tern,
                       O men. bem,
                       Sete saias de fild—
                       Mentirosa Mariana
                        Que naC tem
                        Nem uma s(5."

    Ringing clearly through the mountain air the words sound
rather pretty in the origioal Portuguese, and one is disappointed
at finding that they possess so little sense. The inanity of the
song is not, however, its only drawback, the impropriety of some
of the remaining verses having moved the Oporto authorities to
interdict their being sung, nevertheless the song enjoys a wide-
50                  In, the Port Wine Country.

spread popularity. The following sufficiently close translation
of its opening stanzas, which include the hues just quoted, will
give a fair idea of the quality of the ditty:—
                "Young Mariana, poor little thing.
                  Her petticoats trail in the mire;
                  I have told you a thousand times—
                    'Lift up your skirt, little Mariana.'
                "Mariana says she has
                 Seven petticoats with stripes—
                 'Tell the truth to your lover,
                  And no more deceive him.'
                "Mariana says she has
                   (Oh, my love!)
                  Seven petticoats of cambric—
                   ' Lying Mariana,
                  You know you've not
                    A single one.'"
    Among the singers we detect many countenances the exact
counterparts of faces met with in Sligo and the wilds of Con-
nemara. Jewish faces also are not tmcommon,while as regards
the few moderately good-looking women, it is evident that
Moorish blood courses through their veins. The latter have the
firm and graceful carriage,the almond-shaped eye and straightish
■eyebrow, the regular white teeth, and rich transparent olive
complexion peculiar to their race. Several of them—bare-legged,
coarsely clad, uncleanly, and unkempt though they were—^wore
handsome filigree brooches and earrings of antique mauresque
design, it being a common practice with women of their class to
invest their savings in trinkets of this description in order to escape
the importunities of impecunious relatives bent upon borrowing
from all who are known to hoard. While the women are busy
gathering the grapes, the men, with heavily-laden baskets, con
tinue ascending the steep steps at the ends of the taller terraces
—which are frequently twelve feet in height—and file off with
their burdens to the lagares, the largest of which has to be filled
by noon. Across this lagar planks are placed for the vintagers
to walk on when shooting the grapes into the remoter comers,
whereby the cmshing of the fruit aheady in the lagar and any
premature fermentation of the juice thus exuded is avoided.
                    Hmo Port Wine is Made.                      51




                                                                i



         THE TINTAGEES' KITCHEN AT THE QHINTA DO SEIKO,

   When the midday meal is over, the grapes having been
aheady spread perfectly level in the lagar, a band of sixty
men is told off to tread them. The casa dos lagares is a long
building with a low pointed roof, lighted with square openings
along one side,and contains four lagares, in the largest of which
sufficient grapes can be trodden at one time to produce thirty
pipes of wine. As is universally the case in the Upper Douro,
these lagares are of stone, and about three feet in depth. In
front of each, and on a lower level, is a small stone reservoir,
called a dorno, into which the expressed juice flows after the
treading of the grapes is concluded, and which communicates by
pipes with the huge tonels in the adega below, although not
beneath the lagares, being, in fact, in face of the reservoirs, but
on a level some twelve feet lower, with a long wooden staircase
leading to it. In front of the lagares runs a narrow stone ledge,
to which ascent is gained by a few steps, and here while the
treading is going on the overseers post themselves, long
52               In the PoH Wine Country.

staves in hand, in order to see that every one performs his
proper share of labour. The treaders, -with their -white
breeches well tucked up, mount into the lagar, where they
form three separate rows of ten men each on either side
of the huge overhanging beam, and, placing their arms on
each other's shoulders, commence work by raising and lowering-
their feet alternately, calling out as they do so, "Direita,
esquerda!" ("Eight, left!"), varying this, after a time, with
songs and shoutings in order to keep the weaker and the lazier
ones up to the work, which is quite as irksome and monotonous
as either treadmill or prison crank, which tender-hearted philan
thropists regard with so much horror. But the lagariros have
something more than singing or shouting to encourage them.
Taking part with them in the treading is a little band of musi
cians, with dnim, fife, fiddle, and guitar, who strike up a lively
tune, while their comrades chime in,some by whistling,others -with
castanets. Occasionally, too, nips of brandy are served out, and
the overseers present cigarettes all round, whereupon the treaders
vary their monotonous movements with a brisker measure.
    This first treading—^the"sovar o vinho," or beating the -wine,
as it is called—lasts, with occasional respites and relays of fresh
men,for eighteen hours. A long interval now ensues, and then
the treading or beating is resumed. By this time the grapes are
pretty well crushed, and walking over the pips and stalks,stre-wn
at the bottom of the lagar,becomes something like the pilgrimages
of old when the devout trudged wearily along, with hard peas
packed between the soles of their feet and the soles of their shoes.
The lagariros, with their garments more or less bespattered
with grape-juice, move slowly about in their mauve-colom-ed
mucilaginous bath in a listless kind of way, now smoking
cigarettes, now -with their anns folded or thro-wn behind their
backs, or -with their hands tucked in their waistcoat-pockets or
raised up to their chins while they support the elbow of the one
arm with the hand of the other. The fiddle strikes up anew,
the drum sounds, the fife squeaks, the guitar tinkles, and the
overseers drowsily upbraid. But all to no purpose. Music has
                   Hoiv Port Wine is Made.                       53


lost its inspii-ation and authority its teiTors, and the men, dead
heat, raise one purple leg languidly after the other. In the
stUl night-time, with a few lanterns dimly lighting up the
gloomy casa dos lagares, such a scene as I have here attempted
to sketch has something almost weird about it.
   By the time the trending is completed the violent fermentation
of the must has commenced, and is left to follow its course.
According as the grapes are moderately or over ripe, and the
atmospheric temperature is high or low, and it is intended that
the wine shall be sweet or dry, this fermentation will be allowed
to continue for a shorter or a longer period, varying from fifteen
hours to several days, during which time the husks and stalks
of the grapes, rising to the surface of the must, form a thick
incrustation. To ascertain the proper moment for drawing the
wine off into the tonels, recourse is usually had to the saccha-
Tometer, when, if this marks four or five degrees, the farmer
knows the wine will be sweet; if a smaller number of degrees
are indicated the wine will be moderately sweet, while zero sig
nifies that the wine will be dry. Some farmers judge the state
of the fermentation by the appearance of the wine on the con
ventional white porcelain saucer,and the vinous smell and flavour
which it then exhibits.   When it is ascertained that the wine
has sufficiently fermented, it is at once run off into the large
tonels, holding their ten to thirty pipes each, the mosto
■extracted from the husks of the grapes by the application of the
huge beam press being juixed with the expressed juice resulting
 from the treading. It is now that brandy—not poisonous Berlin
potato spirit, but spirit distilled from the juice of the grape—^is
added at the rate of 5| to 11 gallons per pipe, if it is desired that
the wine should retain its sweetness. Should, however, the wine
be already dry, the chances are that it will receive no spirit at all.
The bungs are left out of the tonels until November, when they
are tightly replaced, and the wine remains undisturbed until the
cold weather sets in, usually during the month of December.
By this time the wine has cleared and become of a dark purple
hue. It is now drawn off its lees and returned again to the
54                 hi the Poii Wine Country.

tonel, wlien it receives about five gallons of brandy per pipe. In
tbe following Mareb it will be racked into pipes preparatory to
being sent down tbe Douro to tbe wine-sbippers' lodges at Villa
Hova de G-aia.
   A good quantity of tbe wine vintaged in tbe Upper Douro is
shipped to Oporto in tbe ensuing spring from Pinbao, altbougb
many growers sbip tbeir wines at favourable points of tbe river
contiguous to tbeir own quintas. Tbe pipes are sent down from
tbe adegas fastened witb ropes on to bullock-carts, tbe massive-




                          i
                  Holo Port Wine is Made.                     55


framework and low solid ii'on-tired wheels of which are of much
the same pattern as in the days of the Romans. The powerful
oxen have a diflBcult task of it, in restraining the too rapid
descent down the feaifully steep and rugged roads with the dead
weight behind always impelling them forward. The yoke is
fixed to the horns of the oxen instead of to their necks, and is
provided with a leather cushion—often set off with a long
fringe—to prevent it from chafing their foreheads. "Were the
yoke fixed in the usual manner to their necks, the chances are
the animals would be throttled while ascending or descending
these steep mountain tracks. The wheels and axles of the carts
revolve together, screeching loudly. The peasants say this
unearthly sound, known as the"childreda," frightens the wolves,
and wiU scare away the devil, which is not unlikely if he has
only a moderately sensitive ear. It certainly has one advantage;
in the narrow mountain tracks you hear the cart coming a long
way off, and are able to look out for a place where it is possible
for it to pass vrithout unhorsing you.
   When the huUock-cart has arrived on the strand the pipe is
gently lowered on to the sand, and then rolled up planks laid
against the side of the high-prowed flat-bottomed boat which is
to receive it on board. If the incline is very steep ropes are had
recourse to. These Douro wine-boats are of various sizes, some
of them carrying as few as ten and others as many as eighty
pipes. The charge for conveying a pipe of wine down to Oporto
is ten shilliags, exclusive of the cost of getting it to the boat,
and the landing of it at Villa Nova de Gaia. During the voyage
the boat has to descend numerous rapids, the approach to which
is signalled by the steersman with shouts of"A rezende!" where
upon the oarsmen raise their oars out of the water, and the
steersman, standing upon the sternposts and looking ahead
to avoid the sunken rocks, firmly grips the tiller, whereon
depends the safety of the boat and its cargo. Suddenly the
vessel is precipitated down the rapid, when with a single jerk
the steersman swings its head round,while a couple of agile men
at the prow sound the bottom of the river with their long poles.
 56                 In the Port Wine Country,

 The Douro boatmen are very chatty and cheerful, and fi-equently
 converse among themselves in song, the words of which they
 improvise as occasion may reqmre. They are very strict in the
 observance of their religious duties, and whenever the image of
 a saint is passed, perched on the summit of the cliffs bordering
 the river, they bare their heads and repeat a short prayer.




                   LOADINO A DOUEO WINE-BOAT.




Before commencing a meal, too, they will stand up and uncover
themselves, and devoutly say grace. Their hardest toil is in
ascending the river with a cargo of empty pipes,as then the boat
has to be towed against the powerful current. The unloading
and reloading of the cargo, too, whenever the vessel gets
aground, or the numerous rapids have to be ascended, is both a
tedious and laborious affair.
                         THE QHINTA AMABELIiA.



IV. Some Pinhao Quintas—An IJppee Doueo Village—
                 Lovely Woman in the Lagae.
The Quinta Amarella and Casal de Loivos—So-called Eoughing it in an Alto
    Douro Quinta—The Village of Pinhao and its principal Features—
    Excursion to the Quinta do Noval—Magnificent View from its Upper
    Heights—Its Lagares and Modern Presses—Eavages of the Phylloxera—
    Some Alto Douro Wine made without added Spirit—We follow the course of
    the Pinhao—Distance lends Enchantment to the View of an Alto Douro
    Village—Closer Acquaintance dissipates the Illusion—The Casa Grande
    of Celleirds—Senhor Arnaldo's Douro Quintas—His new Adega one of the
    finest in the Alto Douro—The Red and White Wines of Celleirds—^A
    Visit at Night-time to a neighbouring Dagar—A party of Women Treaders
    having a merry time of it—They Dance upon the Grapes with the frenzy
   of Wild Bacchantes.

    In fuU view of tlie Quinta do Seixo, and perclied part way up
the lofty hUl at the base of which the village of Pinhao is situated,
and where the clear and spaa-klmg waters of the little river bear-
58                 In the Port Wins Country.

ing the same name mingle •with those of the s'wift-rushing and
m'uddy Douro, stands the Quinta Amarella—the Tello'sv Quinta
—occupied by the representative of the fii-m of Martinez, G-assiot,
and Co. at the epoch of the "vintage. Almost at the summit of
the same high hill, known as Casal de Loivos (the Wolves'
Lair)—so named at a time when its forests were the refuge of
that animal—and looking do'wn over the "wide narro"w ravines
along which tlie Douro and the Pinhao take their course, are the
snow-white cottages of the village of Casal de Loivos, in the
midst of chestnut-trees and "vines.
     On crossing the Douro by the ferry at Pinhao we rode at
once to the Quinta Amarella and found house, lagares, and
tonels undergoing a complete restoration, and the "wine being
made in some lagares forming part of the same property, hut
situated higher up the hill. Although the quinta has given in
good years as many as eighty or ninety pipes of first-class "wine,
the produce was hut small on the occasion of our visit, partly
from the unfavourable weather, but chiefly from a considerable
portion of the quinta ha"ving been recently replanted and the
vines not yet being in full bearing. We spent several days, at
different times, at the Quinta Amarella during our sojourn in
the Upper Douro, where, owing to the absence of any kind of
accommodation, the traveller is entirely dependent upon the
courtesy of the owners or occupiers of the quintas along his line
of route. When an invitation is given to you to take up your
quarters in one of these quintas, it is invariably accompanied by
the intimation that you must be prepared to "rough it." But
it usually happens that the only roughing of it you have to
undergo is over the villainous roads which lead to your destina
tion. There is no lack of hospitality, and you are feasted on fowls,
turkeys, and hams,and on beef and mutton—which,by the way,
have to be sent for a distance of ten miles—on the daintiest of
pastry made by the nuns, and the many preserves for which the
Alto Douro is famous. These, moreover, will be fi'equently sup
plemented by delicacies bearing Crosse and Blackwell's well-
kno"wn brand, while the finest of grapes are of course in abun-
       Some PinliSo Qumias—An TJpper Douro Village.             59-

dance. The choicest of tawny Port, which has lost all its fmiti-
ness during a quarter of a century in the cask, is at your service,,
with Bordeaux and AUsopp and Martell; while almost every
one, on the pretence that the water hereabouts is undrinkahle,
has an ample supply of Apollinaris up from Oporto ; so that, on
the whole, what is called "roughing it" in an Upper Douro
quinta is rather a syharitical affair than othei'wise.
   In accordance with the customary practice the representative
of Messrs. Martinez, Gassiot, and Co. rode forth daily from the
Quinta Amarella to see that the wine was being properly made
in the various vineyards, the pi'oduce of which the firm had con
tracted to purchase, and here he received levees of farmers, who
came from far and near with samples of new-made wine which
they had to sell. Down below in the village,and within a hundred
yards of the Douro, Martinez, Gassiot, and Go. have some large
stores where they collect their purchases in the Upper Douro,and
whence they send them down the river by boat to Oporto as occa
sion may require. We paid a visit to these stores,entering through
a large doorway which gave access to a spacious com-tyard with a
row of adegas on one side, while the other was occupied with a
long low open buildmg, the sloping roof of which rested on
massive granite piUars. Here a small cooperage for the repair
of casks is installed. The three adegas opposite are of con
siderable size, and as many as 1,200 pipes of wine can be
conveniently stored in them.
   The village of Pinhao comprises a cluster of small houses,
and some half-a-dozen wine-stores, grouped indiscriminately on
the banks of the Douro. It boasts a straggling undulating pra9a,
planted with a few trees, on one of which there was usually
hanging a newly-slaughtered sheep, which the butcher would be
cutting up, while women waited to secure the primer parts for
their husbands at work on the railway in course of construction.
on the opposite bank of the Douro,and on the railway bridge that
spans the river Pinhao. A venda,a barber's shop, and one or two
general dealers' stores look on to the pi-aca, and in the short,
wiading streets of the village, children, pigs, dogs, and poultry
60               In tlie Port Wine Country.

mingle indiscriminately before the cottage doors. Such are the
main features of Pinhao, which, fi'om its central position, is a
place of some importance in the Alto Douro region.




                       VIEW OE PlJUliO.



    The little river Pinhao is skirted on the left bank by a new
macadamised road, and along this we ride, past vineyards, olive-
groves, and water-mills, shaded by clustered oak and cork trees,
with gleaming white casas and little hamlets picturesquely
perched up the surrounding slopes. Among these is Sao
Christovao, famous for its fine white Ports, bought up by
Messrs. Offley, Forrester, and Co., the largest shippers of these
wines in Oporto. The road intersects the vineyards of the ancient
Quinta do Noval, the property of the Visconde de Villar AJlen,
and a steep narrow mountain track leads from the new highway
to the buildings of the quinta,which commands one of the most
magnificent prospects in the Alto Douro. From its highest
altitude the waters of the Pinhao are aU but lost to view, being
more or less hidden by jutting crags and branching foliage, but
away in the distance there gleams the rapid Douro, looking far
THE QUINTA DO NOVAE IN THE ALTO DOURO.
                                         (A 69')
                                     '-.rf




« :.

       i:i:,   .\'-' ,'^-'l'-. rh'
       Some Pinlido Quinias—An U^jier Bouro Village.          61

brighter and clearer than it seems when standing on its bants.
Terraces of vines rise and descend on a,ll sides, and to-day, with
the additions that have been from time to time made to it,
Noval the quinta in the valley, as its name implies—extends
over nearly 250 acres, exclusive of the adjoiniag quinta of the
Marco, some 50 acres in extent, belonging to the same proprietor.
Adjoining the chapel andviUa residence, built on an open terrace




                   ADEGA AT THE QTJINTA BO HOVAl.


planted with olive and orange trees, are the press-house and the
adega,erected, according to the new principle,on different levels,
so that the mosto may flow out of the domachos or reservoirs
thi'ough metal pipes into the great tonels ranged along the
spacious building, whence a staircase communicates with the
casa dos lagares. Here are six lagares, four of them, holding
from twelve to fifteen pipes each,being provided with metal screws
placed in their centre ; while in the two others, each capable of
containing thirty pipes of wine, the grapes after being trodden
are pressed by means of the ponderous beams common through-
 ■62                  In the Fort Wine Country.

 out the Upper Douro. In addition, the Visconde possesses a
 MabiUe press, the general introduction of which would be,
 he conceives, of great benefit to the wine-growers, who by
 its use would obtain the full quantity of mosto which the
 grapes are capable of yielding. The vintage operations were
 drawing to a close at the time of our visit, a score or so of men
 being engaged in treading the grapes in the last lagar. We
 noticed that all the bunches which displayed any greenness or
 rottenness had been carefully removed, as well as a portion of
 the grape-stalks, an excess of which gives a harsh flavour to
 the •wine.
       Certain spots in the Quinta do Noval have been attacked by
the phylloxera since 1875, and considerable damage has resulted
to the "vines, so that, instead of 300 pipes being -vintaged in that
quinta alone, the Noval and the Marco quintas combined
now yield merely 200 pipes—equivalent to about two-thirds of
u pipe per acre—which, small as it may seem, is nevertheless a
high yield for the Alto Douro under existing circumstances.
Among these 200 pipes are twenty-five pipes of very superior
white wine, made without any addition of spirit. The quality
of the red wine -vintaged the year of our visit promised to be
very good, judging by the depth of colour and amount of
saccharine it indicated when tested.
       The Visconde de Villar Allen, like other enterprising growers
and shippers, has devoted his attention to the problem of making
Port -wine -without the addition of spirit, and has experimented
largely "with the ISToval and other gro-wths. At his quinta he
was unable to show us any f^oval wine of this description,
although he has a stock of it at his adegas in Oporto, but he
gave us some -wine made at a vineyard near Covellinhas, below
Boa Vista, on the right bank of the Douro, and which had not
received any spirit either when being made, dra-wn off its lees,
fined, or bottled. The wine was only a twelvemonth old, and
naturally undeveloped; nevertheless it showed considerable
depth of colour, had a pleasant perfume, and was clean and
fresh-tasting, and by combining a certain roundness with a
       Some PinJiao Quintas—An Upper Pouro Village.          63

subdued astringency participated somewhat of the character of
both Burgundy and Bordeaux. It certainly possessed none of
the characteristics of Port.
   There are several good quintas in the valley of the Pinhao,
near Noval, and in the vicinity of the pictui'esque village of
VaUe de Mendiz, which, planted on the spur of a hiU, stands out
sharply from the distant vine-clad slopes. The high road winds
midway up the mountain in the direction of the distant village
of Alijo, one of the most northern points of the Paiz Vinhateiro,
as the wine-producing district of the Upper Douro is called.
Branching off from it near Yalle de Mendiz, we stiU follow the
course of the Pinhao over a rough bullock-trach:, with vineyards




and olive-groves on either side. Groups of girls, not only
engaged in gathering the grapes, but in carrying weighty
basketsful of them to the lagares, are fi-equently encountered as
64                 In the Port Wine Country.

■we proceed onward to tlie Ponte do Passadoura, a mstic bridge
spanning tbe Pinbao, bere little more tban a tortuous torrent.
Tbe Pinbao crossed, we wind up a precipitous road skirting
some extenswe -vineyards, wbicb bne either side of tbe way, till
tbe summit of tbe bill is reached, when tbe eye looks over a vast
stretch of -undulating country, -with -vines and olives climbing
tbe nearer mountain slopes, and pine-trees fringing tbe distant
crests. We pass an occasional casa or two, and overtake
some bullock-carts -with four struggling o-sen straining -with
their utmost strength to drag a pipe of brandy up tbe steep
acclivity, while their drivers encourage them by shouts or taunt
them with remonstrances such as " One would think you hadn't
eaten anything since yesterday—why are you so lazy?"
Several parties of -vintagers are encountered going home for tbe
night, and just as dusk has fallen around a bend in the road
brings us to the outskirts of the picturesque but by no means
cleanly village of Celleiros.
     The villages of the Alto Douro, when seen a little way off,
girt round about -with -vines and groves of orange, oak, chestnut,
cork, and olive trees, -with a distant panorama of undulating
mountains rising up behind them, have usually a pleasing air of
rustic repose. A cloudlet of blue smoke curls above the bright-
roofed cottages ; cask-laden bullock-carts wind slowly and inhar-
moniously between the vineyards, -where carolling -vintage girls
are plucking the grapes; pedlars with their mules jog leisurely
along, and women pass to and fro balancing stone jars of water
or far heavier burdens on their heads; a tolling church bell
re-echoes do-wn the valley, whence the shouts of gambolling
children from time to time ascend. The scene is full of light
and colour; the village is nestled so cosily under the mormtain-
side, its casas gleam so brightly in the sun, the embowering
trees are barely touched by the tints of autumn, and everything
looks pleasant, lightsome, and clean.     Should you, however,
venture upon a closer acquaintance its pretensions either to
beauty or cleanliness speedily vanish. The squalid houses,
rudely built, are too frequently grimy on the outside and foul
      So7ne PinJiao Quinias—An Upper JDouro Villacje.          65

witliin. The roads are often filthy in the extreme, smells unde-
finahle assail one's nostrils as much fi-om the open doorways as
from the refuse-littered street. Occasionally the neat whitewashed
abode of some well-to-do farmer may be seen, standing back
in itsj)leasant garden, in striking contrast to the pair of dingy
hovels, with linen of a dirty grey drying on lines before their
paneless windows, which flank it on either side. Stables or sheds
for beasts of burden there are certain to be, but the pigs, who
are legion, live either in the street or in the common room of
the family to whom they belong—a dimly-lighted foetid apart
ment where vermin abound, where the atmosphere is always
close and smoky and the walls charred and blackened from the
absence of chimneys to the houses. Now and then these
miserable dwellings are built up in layers of schistous stone
without either mortar or cement. When the former has been
employed, a single coat of whitewash, set off perhaps with some
tawdry streaks of red and yellow, suffices in the owner's eyes to
keep his casa clean for a decade. Turning from the houses the
eye lights on du'ty children, yelping cui's, emaciated poultry,
and, above all, long-legged pigs, basking at full length in the
middle of the road, disdaining to move out of your horse's way,
and who, after indulging in a refreshing mud bath, will con
siderately retire, dripping with slush, to the single room where
their owners live, eat, and sleej). The prevalence of swine in the
villages of the Port wine country arises from the longing with
which everyone appears to be beset to possess his own pig. To
fatten this is the care and delight of his existence until the time
for slaughtering it arrives, which in the Alto Douro is invariably
between Christmas and Lent.
    Just such a village as the one we have been describing
is Celleiros; still it is only fair to say that it is perhaps the
dirtiest village throughout the Alto Douro. Portunately the
main street is provided with raised paved footways, so that it is
possible to escape walking ankle-deep tbrougb the mire stag
nating in the road. The bare-legged vintage-girls, however,trudge
through it, with their baskets of grapes on their heads, quite as
66                In the Port Wine Country,

tmconcemedly as tlie bullocks do. A few of tbe better-class
bouses bave flights of stone steps outside leading up to tbeir
first floors, round wbicb run open wooden galleries. Here are
tbe family living-rooms, tbe ground floors in tbis case being-
mostly used as stables, adegas, or casas dos lagares. Eoq,dside
stone crosses are numerous, but scarcely ever carved, as one
sees tbem in Ebineland villages; and cbapels, witb massive
escutcheons of preposterous dimensions surmounting tbeir low
doorways, appear every now and then between tbe dingy tene
ments.
   In France it is very different. There nothing resembling a
wine village in tbe Upper Douro is to be met witb throughout
tbe length and breadth of tbe wine-producing districts, all tbe
villages of wbicb bave an unmistakable air of comfort and
prosperity about tbem. It was to tbe casa grande, as tbe
country people call it, of tbis unclean village of Celleirds that I
was bound. Standing on tbe higher ground, at tbe farther end
of tbe main thoroughfare, blocked up -with buUock-carts just
come in witb casks of brandy, is a large white bouse built in tbe
modern style, wbicb, together -with some new and extensive
adegas facing it, belongs to Senbor Arnaldo de Souza,tbe largest
winegrower hereabouts. Senbor Souza is noted throughout tbe
Alto Douro for bis sagacity and enterprise, and bis well-appointed
residence, at wbicb we were hospitably entertained for several
days, is like a gleam of civilisation in those outlandish parts.
He owns three large quintas at Celleirds, and three others
on tbe Douro and in tbe famous Eoncao district—namely,
Malbeiros,near tbe rapid of Carrapata,Liceiras, and Sarrao      as
well as tbe quinta of Cascalbeua on tbe Eio Torto. These proper
ties united, however,were only expected to produce between 200
and 300 pipes of -wine instead of tbe 500 pipes wbicb are tbeir
ordinary yield. Two of tbe Celleiros quintas—those of Pias and
Verdigal—face tbe valley of tbe Pinbao, while tbe third, known
as tbe Quinta de Celleirds, is just beyond tbe village on tbe
road to Villa Eeal. These three quintas yield a good red wine
of tbe second class, witb a certain quantity of white wine of very
■ ■   .■   -.*<■
SENHOR ARNALDO DE SOUZA'S ADEGAS AT CELLEIr6s IN THE ALTO DOURO.
                                                                   (/• 67.)
       Some Finlido Quintas—An Upper Douro Village.                67

superior character,wMch Messrs.Silva and Cosens annually con
tract to buy.
    We visited the Quinta de Celleir6s, wliicb is ■walled in all round,
and iutersected •with well-made roads. Altbough not touched
by the phylloxera, it showed many blank spots where new vines
required to be planted, or where provining—that is, the burying
of a -rine-stem in the earth -with several of its shoots above
ground—had been recently can-ied out. This, coupled with the
unfavourable season, sufficed to account for the diminished
produce of this particular vineyard. Senhor Souza had here
made various experiments in accordance -with Dr. Gruyot's
theories—trainiug the vines on -wires and pruning them after a
particular system. The result, however, has scarcely proved
satisfactory, for although the yield has been greater, the bunches
of grapes, suspended too high above the ground, have never
attained the requisite degree of ripeness. The past few years
have certainly not been favourable for experiments of this
description; still, Senhor Souza has satisfied himself that the
Guyot theories are not applicable to the Alto Douro, and he
intends returning to the old system of cultivation.
   Senhor Souza's adega, constructed from designs by Mr. Kouse,
an English engineer who has established himself at Opoi'to, is
probably the finest in the Alto Douro. Entering through the
large open doorway, one finds oneself in a vast and lofty apart
ment, its roof supported by light iron columns, the difficulty and
expense of conveying which from Oporto to this all but inac
cessible region were very great. Twenty-one tonels of varying
capacity—namely, from twenty to fifty pipes—are disposed round
the adega, in the centre of which is a huge vat, chiefly used for
amalgamating different parcels of "wine. From the adega a
staircase comm-uuicates with the casa dos lagares, situated on a
higher level, whence, by means of an elaborate system of pipes,
the mosto is conveyed from the lagares to the different tonels.
In this upper apartment there are seven lagares, four for red and
three for white -wine; for Celleir6s is the great district for the
finest white Ports. Whether the wine be red or white, one-third of
■68                  In the Pori Wine Cmmlry.

tlie stalks of tke grapes are invariably removed before tbe latter are
thrown into the lagar, and one-half should they be at all green.
"When there is an abundance of labour as many men as the lagares
will conveniently hold are told off to do the treading. Both red
and white wine are usually made sweet by arresting the fermen-
"lation before it has completed itself, in addition to which the white
Ports commonly have two or three almudes of geropiga—a
 syrupy liqueur, the basis of which is unfermented grape-juice—
•added to each pipe at the moment of vatting. Whatever
 mosto is obtained from subjecting the husks and stalks of the
grapes to the action of a powerful Mabille press is run into
"the same tonels as the other wine.       In these tonels the wine
remains undisturbed until Christmas, when it is racked into
■other tonels, and receives half an almude of brandy per pipe. In
"the spring it is sent along mountain-roads on bullock-carts tq
■Senhor Souza's stores at Pinhao, whence it goes down the Douro
by boat to Oporto.
   Male lagariros chancing to be scarce at CeUeiros, beforeIleft
that unattractive villageIhad the opportunity of seeing the fair
sex creditably acquit themselves in treading the grapes in a
lagar. It was at night-time, and a party of us, groping our way
through one of the side streets of the village by the aid of a
lantern, arrived in front of a low one-storied edifice, whence
shouts of laughter mingled with the strains of music were
issuing. The odour of fermenting mosto pervaded the air,
indicating that wine-making was going on. The door being
■opened, we entered the dimly-lighted building, guided by one of
the feitores, who advanced lantern in hand to greet us. Here
 were a couple of lagares filled with grapes, and in both of them
"treaders were at work. In the one over which the usual huge
beam was suspended a party of men raised their legs alternately
in a hstless manner. The other lagar was tenanted by treaders,
also in masculine attire, but of the softer sex. About a score of
women (some young, but most of them middle-aged), dressed in
the worn-out garments of their husbands and brothers, the
majority of whom were at work in the adjoining lagar, were
      Some Pinhao Quintas—An-Ujyjper Pouro Yillage.            69

crasliiiig the purple grapes with an earnestness that suggested
considerable delight in their occupation. They all wore short
jackets and shorter linen pantaloons, but there was great variety
in their headgear, some having slouched hats shading their
scarcely lovely faces, while others wore straw hats cocked jauntily
on one side,or caps with or without peaks ; the remainder having
the conventional gaudy kerchief tied over their heads. Seated




                   lOVEIiT WOMAN IN TIIE lAGAK.

on the parapet of the lagar a solitary musician fiddled away
monotonously, while one or two damsels, gifted m high-
pitched if not particularly melodious voices, struck up the
well-known song of "Marianinha," interdicted, as we have
already mentioned, by the Oporto authorities on account of its
impropriety. Jokes were cracked, shouts of laughter followed,
and much spirited conversation went on between the occupants of
the two lagares. Altogether there was no dearth of animation.
      70                 In the Port Wine Country.

      and whenever the liveliness flagged or the treading grew at all
      slack, a cigarette or a di'op of aguardente was served out as a
      reviver.
         In another lagar, on an occasion of great emergency, we
      saw the grapes trodden by young women wearing theii* own
      garments, which they skilfully gathered up around them until
      they assumed the appearance of the biggest and most abbre
      viated of Dutchmen's breeches. When all was duly adjusted
      they sprang into the lagar, and,delighted with the novelty of their
      task, danced for a time among the grapes 'With the frenzy if not
      the grace of a troop of'wild Bacchanals. The sight was certainly
      amusing, although the proceeding was, perhaps, not exactly a
      decorous one.




      '    '
SfC   r-
                          liAGAEIEOS EEEOSING.


V. A Toub to some Famous Quintas on the Douro ane
     THE Kio Torto—The Cachao da Valleira.
From Celleirds to the Costa do Roncao—A party of Lagariros taking their
   jlepose The Qaintas of Roncao, Dona Rosa, Jordan, Romaneira, Serrao,
   Liceiras,and Malheiros—Other Quintas higher up the Douro—The Quinta
   do Roriz and its original Plantation by an enthusiastic,Sootch Sportsman—
   Roeda,the so-called Diamond of the Port Wine Country—The Quinta reno
   vated and extended by the Barao da Roeda—Itis successively Devastated by
   the Oidium and the Phylloxera—Efforts of the Barao da Roeda to arrest the
   ravages of the latter—The Quintas of Carvalhas and VentozeUo—Excur
   sion to the principal Quintas of the Rio Torto—Priests acting as Overseers
   in many Alto Douro Quintas—We meet troops of Donkeys carrying Skins
   of Wine—Reach a barren Plateau, and sight Sao Joao da Pesqueira Its
    antique palatial-looking edifices, and their huge escutcheons We visit
    the Quinta do Sidrd—Vines 1,000 feet above the level of the Douro—
    Ascend the craggy height of Sao Salvador do Mundo with little Chapels
    perched up its side—View from here of the dreaded Cachao da Valleira—
    The Douro Boatmen bare their heads and pray as they approach the
    perilous gorge—The Quinta do Vesuvio, the largest of the Douro Vine
    yards—Its Plantations of Oranges, Olives, and Almonds, as well as of
    Mulherry-trees for Silkworms—Other Quintas in the neighbourhood—We
    ride hack and are ferried over to Pinliao.
 72                In the Port Wine Country.

    Several otlier notable quintas being as yet unvisited, either
 on the banks of the Douro or up the valley of the Eio Torto—
 such, for instance, as Eoncao, Eomaneira, Eorez and Eoeda
 Carrapata, Carvalhas, Cannaes, and Cascalheira — we started,
 during the forenoon from Celleir6s, winding round the hills in
 the direction of the Pinhao, and passing through the Quinta of
 Terrafeita, where once more the customary vintage scene pre
 sented itself. It was the dinner hour, and men from the
 adjacent lagares, with their brawny legs dyed in new-made wine,,
 were lolling or lying full length on the walls inclosing the
 vineyards, or dozing with the swine at the verge of the moun
tain road. Having crossed the river over a wooden bridge, we
ascended the opposite side of the ravine and passed through the
village of Val de Mendiz, perched on a spur of the principal
chain of hills. There were the usual execrable roads to be
traversed—^roads of which the reader can only form an idea if he
has ridden up or down a narrow dried-up mountain watercourse
verging on the conventional angle of 45 degrees, and strewn
with boulders of all shapes and sizes—the kind of track,in fact
which even a venturous chamois might hesitate to take. For
roads such as these your horse has need to be not only sure
footed and sound in his knees and fetlocks, and strong in his
haunches, but he should possess the keenest of sights, for if
night overtakes you with no moon shining he will have to pick
his way in Cimmerian darkness. Should you dismount and try
to lead him the chances are you wiU stumble and fall at every
second step, leaving you no alternative but to jump into the
saddle again and trust your valued neck to your horse's intui
tion. When making the steeper ascents, should he show an
inchnation to waver the spur must be promptly applied, for in
mounting these rude rocky staircases the horse that hesitates is
assuredly lost.
   The summit of the hills gained, a large interior basin pre
sented itself, formed by the mountain slopes bordering the
Pinhao and the Douro, with terraces of vines rising from base
to summit in every direction, and a little brook, the Povoa,.
' ii*   rjt   '
     tpssasssss.
^jax*-KSrs»»m?Sr:




                    THE QUINTA HE E.OMANEIRA IN THE ALTO DOURO.
                                                                  (A 73.)
     Some famotis Qidntas on the Douro and the Rio Torto.     73

coursing among the trees and rocks along the bottom of the
valley, the precise counterpart of a Welsh mountain stream.
Perched on the high ground are the white cottages of three
little villages in the midst of garden patches—^Povoa,girt round
about with olive-trees ; Cottas, fiunged with vines ; and Villa-
rinho de Cottas, through which we have to pass on our way to
the Dom'o. We wind round the hills encompassing the valley
and fonning a complete amphitheatre of vine-clad slopes, while
beyoncl, bathed in a flood of sunlight, ghmmer the distant
movmtain-tops. All the wine grown low down in these hoUowe
is remarkable, it should he noted, for its depth of colour. After
a time we commence our descent, and a bend of the road
discloses to view the yellow Douro, flowing tumultuously at our
feet. Beaching its margin we cross the Povoa, which literally
dribbles into the larger stream, and flnd ourselves within the
limits of the famous Costa do Eoncao, so named from the
murmuring sound produced by the waters of the Dotu'o dashing
against a rock which here obstructs its course, and where some
of the choicest wine in the Alto Douro region is vintaged.
   Here are the Quinta do Eoncao, belonging to Senhor Souza,
our host at Celleirds, with its long adega,flanked on the one side
by a cypress-tree, and on the other by a lofty cedar; the Quinta
de Dona Eosa, planted more than a century ago, and yielding a
remarkably fine wine,of which as many as 150 pipes are produced
in a, first-rate year; also the Quinta do Jordao, or Sibio, as
it is sometimes called, with its large white casa and adjacent
chapel, producing some 35 pipes of wine of the highest quality.
The wine here is purchased by Messrs. Silva and Cosens, who
also buy up the produce of the largest of the Eomaneira quintas,.
of which there appear to be two. The quinta to which Baron
Forrester gives the name of Eomaneira in his map of the Alto
Douro wine district usually yields some 70 pipes of wine, re
markable alike for body, mellowness, and aroma. The other,
which ordinarily produces ICQ to 120 pipes of first-class wine,is.
called the Quinta dos Eeis by Baron Forrester, and by others
the Quinta do Abbade,it being conjectured that it was originally
 74                 In the Port Wine Country,

 planted by an Abbot of Goivaes, althougb to-day it is more
 generally known as tbe Quinta da Komaneira or de Dona Clara,
 from tbe name of its proprietor, Dona Clara de Lacerda.
    Tbe road to it bes along tbe margin of tbe Douro,over large
 slabs of rock washed down by a succession of winter floods, and
 wbicb, on tbe waters subsiding, are left bigb and dry on tbe
 sandy river bank,jumbled together in grotesque disorder. Over
 these my sorry steed picked bis way for some time cleverly
 enough, stepping cautiously from one slippery boulder to
 another, until one steep shelving rock brought him down with
 his four legs under him. Disengaging my feet from the Moorish
 stuTups, I was soon out of the saddle, preferring not to run the
 risk of the horse falling anew in his endeavours to recover his
 footing. The remainder of the journey over this perilous road
 way was performed in safety, and passing through the monu
 mental gateway of the quinta, and ascending the steep road cut
through the vines and shaded by spreading olive-trees, we
 reached the open terrace on which the long adega, faced by a
row of tapering cypresses, interspersed with orange-trees and
acacias, stands. Turning sharply round to the right, and
passing through a large iron gateway surmounted by an
escutcheon, we find ourselves in a spacious courtyard. At right
angles with the casa dos lagares stands the little house where
Dona Clara and her daughter instal themselves during the
vintage. In front are some stables, and facing the press-house
is another range of outbuildings, surmounted by a quaint little
beU-turret, dominated by the painted figure of some patron
saint. Fowls are wandering about the courtyard, dogs are
sleeping in the shade, and a boy is thrusting tufts of maize
down the throats of a couple of bullocks yoked to a cart laden
with a pipe of brandy. The vintage had commenced in this
quiuta on the 25th of September, and was now drawing to a
close, nearly the whole of the wine having been drawn off into
the tonels,ten of which,capable of holding from fifteen to thirty
pipes each, are ranged along the spacious adega. Here, as in
■adjoining quintas, phylloxera had manifested itself; still its
     Somefamous Qidntas on the JDouro and the Bio Too-to.       75

ravages liad been limited, and we were informed tbat tbe yield
would be nearly a hundred pipes of wine.
   Eastward of Enmaneira, and within the limits of the
famous Costa do Eoncao, are several quintas adjoining each
other, all of which yield high-class growths, purchased for
many years past by Messrs. W. and J. Graham, of Oporto.
 Among these may be mentioned the quintas of Sen-ao and
Liceiras, together with that of Malheiros, or, as it is some
times called, Carrapata, from the "galeira" or rapid of
tbat name which here obstructs the navigation of the Douro,
on whose margin the buildings of the quinta stand, screened,
 hke those of Eomaneira, by a row of cypresses. The Liceiras
quinta is somewhat small; still the three vineyards com
 bined yield in good years from 150 to 200 pipes of wine.
 Messrs. W. and J. Graham are also the purchasers of the
 produce of the neighbouring quintas of Bairral and Barca, as
 well as of the quinta of Sivio, higher up the river, all noted for
 tbeir fine wines. Many of the best quintas in the Upper Douro
 are concentrated hereabouts, while only a few of those situated
 above this point enjoy any special repute. Among the latter
 are tbe Quinta do Merin90,in which the touriga species of grape
.is principally cultivated,and which yields in good years as many
 as 100 pipes of fine wine ; also the Quinta de Malvedos, re
 markable for the solidity of the terraces along which its vines
 are planted. Near this latter quinta are the ancient storehouses
 built by the famous Wine Company of the Alto Douro wherein
 to lodge the wines collected by their agents, as well as those con
 fiscated by their bailiffs for being fraudulently introduced within
 tbe privileged district throughout which the Company exercised
 an arbitrary rule. Still higher up the Douro—some distance
 beyond the village of Tua, situated at the point where the river
 of the same name flows foaming into the Douro, and bounded
 by the valley of Elba Longa, where the wine district on the
 right bank of the Douro temporarily ceases is the Quinta do
 Zimbro, producing a limited quantity of high-class wine.
    From the terrace of Eomaneira the eye looks over the
76                In the Port Wine Countnj.

opposite bank of the Douro, where the hills present a series of
gently-rounded buttresses horizontally scored with terraces of
vines. Just across, but somewhat higher up the river, the
white-walled casas and chapel of Eoriz—which is the name of a
particular quinta, as well as of a considerable district—gleam
conspicuously amid the varied foliage of vines, olive-trees, and
cypresses, and by their number and dimensions assume almost
the appearance of a little hamlet. At the close of the last
century not a vine was to be seen here ; the ground lay uncul
tivated and covered with bushes and brushwood—the lair of
the wolf and the wild boar, which used to swim the Douro and
make havoc among the grape-laden vines on the opposite bank.
The story goes that at the time when extensive plantations of
vines were being made above the line of the Corgo there arrived
a Scotch gentleman named Eobert Archibald, passionately fond
of field sports. He found the savage wilds and rugged steeps
of the Douro well suited to his tastes ; and his sporting expedi
tions having carried him to Eoriz, he built there a small
shooting-box. After a time, perceiving that the situation was
well adapted to the plantation of a vineyard, he rented a large
tract of the surrounding land, belonging to a Commandery
of the Order of Christ; and thus originated the present Quinta
do Eoriz. This quinta is now more than 170 acres in extent,
but its produce does not exceed 100 pipes of wine, of a high
quality, however, and fine deep colour. It is worthy of remark
that the predominant species of vine in this quinta is the tinta
francisca, imported by Mr. Archibald from Prance, and thought
to be identical with the pineau noir of Burgundy.
    Prom the Quinta da Eomaneira we proceeded to that of
Eoeda, the property of Senhor Pladgate, Barao da Eoeda, and
taking its name, like other quintas, from one of the rapids in
the Dom'o—a rapid to which the name of Arrueda has been given
&om the noise made by the water rushing over a bank of loose
stones and pebbles. There is a current local saying to the
effect that if the wine country were a ring Eoeda would be its
diamond, for the quinta enjoys one of the finest aspects in the
 r
y rv. ,




                   ■   •-




                            \'




          ":*' .
      I




            K^V:
      E.f.




                        A.
THE QUINTA DA ROEDA IN THE ALTO DOURO.
                                         (>• 77-)
    Somefamous Quintas on the Douro and the Rio ToHo.         77

Alto Douro, being situated midway between tbe Costa do
Eoncao and the mouth of the Pinhao, at the point where the
vaUey of the Douro expands and the opposite bank subsides
into a more gentle slope, over which the sun flashes its rays
from the south upon the terraced amphitheatre of Koiida. The
quinta, which is of some antiquity, was in all probability planted
after the increased demand for Portuguese wines had sprung up
in England consequent upon the Methuen treaty. From an
inscription on the stone gateway it is certain that it was
in the possession of an Englishman, the "Sor Bartolemev
Bealsley," in 1744. A century afterwards it was acquired by
its present owner, who entuely renovated the old vineyard and
materially extended its area at very considerable cost, so that
to-day the quinta comprises about 270 English acres. Prtor to
the appearance of the oidium, when its plantations of vines
were much less extensive than at present, the Quinta da Eoeda
yielded in good years 220 pipes of wine. After that malady
had invaded the Alto Douro there came a year when Barao da
Eoeda derived from his estate no more than 2| qupes of wine.
 Now, under favourable conditions, Rocda, according to its
owner's estimate, should produce 350 pipes; but, owing to the
 phylloxera and the unfavourable season, its yield the year of our
 visit was merely a fraction of that quantity. The vines at this
quinta are not planted at a higher altitude than 600 feet above
 the river level, the majority of them being found at less than
 half this height, consequently the whole of the wine vintaged
 is of the first quality. We found the vintage almost terminated,
 and but little animation in the casa dos lagares, containing its
 ten lagares, two of which hold thirty pipes each, while the eight
 others contain from fourteen to fifteen pipes respectively. A.s
 it frequently requires two, and even three days when labour is
 scarce, to fill one of the larger lagares a delay which is likely
 to prove detrimental to the wine—Barao da Kocda, like many
 other growers, gives a preference to the smaller ones. In the
 adjacent adega we counted no fewer than- six-and-twenty tonels,
 ten of them holding two-and-twenty pijies each.
  78                 In the Fort Wine Cowniry.

     Barao da Eoeda has paid much attention to the cultivation
 of the vine in the Alto Douro,as well as to the production of oUve
 oil, the rearing of silkworms, and the making of wine without
 spirit. He has studied the oidium and the phylloxera, having
 visited France the better to pursue his investigations respecting
 the depredations of this latter pest, and was one of the first to
 take measures for the repression of these twin scourges of the
 vine. It was in 1848 that the oidium first declared itself in the
 Alto Douro by a strange bitter flavour in that year's "wine. By
 1851 it had fully developed itself, and its ravages during several
 subsequent years were of a most disastrous character. Against
 the phylloxera Barao da Eotida has tried, among other remedies,
 phosphate of lime, coal tar, sulphate of potash, natural mag
 nesia, and sulphurate of carbon, all being applied to the roots
 of the vines, but with little effect. Most of the remedies
 prescribed by the scientific world for this scourge are very costly
 under ordinary circumstances, while the expense of bringing
 them up to and applying them in the Alto Doui-o is fully double
 what it is elsewhere.
    From Eoeda we were ferried over to the Quinta dos Car-
valhas, immediately opposite, where Messrs. W.and J. Graham
usually have their Douro head-quarters. The press-house and
adegas, shaded by spreading olive-trees, are clustered together
close to the margin of the river, while the vines rise in terraces
up the adjacent slopes. Carvalhas produces a high-class, stout,
and at the same time mellow wine ; but its present yield does
not exceed seventy pipes. Higher up on the same side of the
Douro, and with many of its slopes facing one of the minor
valleys,is the Quinta de Ventozello,belonging to Senhor Antonio
de Souza, and producing in good years 150 pipes of high-class
wine, regularly purchased by Messrs. G. G. Sandeman and Sons.
This quinta had suffered considerably from the phylloxera, which
had reduced the yield down to eighty-five pipes.
    On a subsequent occasion we made an excursion up the
valley of the Eio Torto, so named fi-om the labyrinthine course
taken by the mountain stream, which is bounded on either side
     Somefamous Quintas on the Douro and the Rio Torto.         79

by chains of winding bills. In many parts tbeir slopes offer a
succession of gently-rounded buttresses, presenting great varieties
of aspect,and being in every way admirably adapted for the culti
vation of the vine. Of recent years the yield of wine has greatly
fallen off owing to the violence with which the phylloxera seems
to have assailed this particular region. Generally speaking, it
may be said that all the vineyards on the left bank of the Torto,
from Bateiras at its mouth to as high up as Castanheiro, and
on the right bank from the same point to the neighbourhood of
the Quinta da Soalheira—a distance in a direct line of some
half-dozen miles—have more or less suffered.
   We started from Pinhao shortly after daybreak, and pro
ceeded along the new road to the left of the Eio Torto, which,
passing by Ervedoza, conducts across the bleak and lofty table
land to Sao Joao da Pesqueira. Our intention was to visit the
famous Cachao da Valleira well-nigh at the extremity of the Paiz
Vinhateiro,or wine district,and in whose dangerous eddies Baron
Porrester—a real enthusiast on the subject of Port wine, and
intimately associated in various ways with the Alto Douro, the
vineyards, mountains,and tributary streams of which he person
ally suiweyed—unhappily lost his life. A little beyond the village
of Cazaes we sighted the Quinta da Cascalheira, belonging to
Senhor Arnoldo de Souza,the j)roduce of which,reduced the year
of our visit to 80 pipes,is purchased by Messrs.W.and J.Graham.
Three of the four lagares here are worked with metal screws,
according to the Jerez system,the fourth being provided with the
ancient heavy beam which,besides being very cumbersome and far
less efficient than the metal screw, has the further disadvantage
of being more costly. The original expense of conveying one of
these huge pieces of timber up the Douro—where nothing larger
than an olive-tree is ordinarily to be met with is, of course, con
siderable, and its mere transit from the river-bank to a quinta,
some few miles distant along the rude steej) narrow mountain
roads,often costs as much as ^£10 in this country of cheap labour.
   Higher up the Eio Torto valley, and with its vines spread
over the lower slopes descending to the river's bed,is the Quinta
 -83                In the Port Wine Cotmtry.

 da Sedavim, to reacli -which -we quit the high road and foUo-w a
 narro-w bullock-track bordered -with olive-trees.   Here -we found
 the -vintage over, and merely some agua pe being made in one
 ■of the lagares. The 80 pipes of high-class -wine which the
 quinta had yielded had been purchased, we learned, by Messrs.
 Cockbum, Smithes, and Co., who buy up the produce of a good
 number of quintas of long-established repute.
       On the other side of the Rio Torto we note the Quinta do
 Bom Ketiro, also producing some excellent -wine; while on the
 same side of the river as Sedavim, but higher up the valley, we
 come to the district of Perdiz, where the phylloxera had reduced
 the yield to some 120 pipes. The -wine of this quinta, purchased
 by Messrs. Sdva and Cosens, is of excellent quality, and possesses
 that great depth of colour for which all the Rio Torto growths
are more or less noted. The principal Port wine shippers, it should
be remarked, obtain their supplies of new wine in various ways.
Certain among them contract to buy the -wine of particular
quintas for a series of years, and in this case superintend its
manufacture. Others buy the produce of merely a few notable
quintas, and secure their principal supply from small growers in
the good districts, often purchasing the -wine without troubling
themselves to see it made, and judging of it from samples and
their knowledge of the farmers and particular localities. This
system is not without its advantages, as the shipper, compara
tively unfettered in his purchases, can buy as little -wine as he
pleases in years of bad vintages.
    Within the district of the Rio Torto, but beyond Ervedoza
the little village up the mountain where we were lost and
benighted when we were less familiar with the topography of
the Alto Douro than we are at present—and outside the exten
sive circle of vineyards assailed by the phylloxera, is the Quinta
da Soalheira, exceedingly well situated, planted with the best
varieties of black grape, and producing on an average 180 pipes
of -wine yearly. The vineyard when completely planted will yield,
it is anticipated, from six to seven hundred pipes per annum;
and its proprietor, undismayed by the phylloxera at the threshold
     Somefamous Quintas on the Bouro and the Bio Torto.      81

of his quinta, has a band of a couple of hundred men regu
larly employed every spring in planting additional vines. The
buildings of the quinta are most commodious, the casa is large,
the lagares and adega well arranged, and the eight capacious
tonels which the latter contains wUl hold 240 pipes of wine.
    At several quintas in the Rio Torto and other parts of the
Alto Douro it is the custom to have a priest in the capacity of
cazeiro, or superintendent, and Barao da Roeda has even an
old monk for his overseer. It is considered that a priest is
able to exercise far greater influence over the people employed
than an overseer taken from their own class would be capable of
maintaining. The rm-al clergy here have not lost their hold upon
the peasantry in the same way that their Spanish brethren have
lost theirs in Andalusia; and instead of the little chapels
attached to the vineyard casas being deserted and desecrated as
they are in the neighbourhood of Jerez, on Sundays and saints'-
days the clerical overseer invariably summons Ms flock to early
mass in the chapel of the quinta before the pickers roam through
the dew-covered vineyard or the treaders tui-n into the grape-
strewn lagares.
   From the Quinta da Soalheira one wound round the lofty
hills which form the boundary of the Rio Torto district, encoun
tering on the way the customary files of pack-laden mules
and troops of nimble little donkeys carrying skins full of
wine. Following a deep cutting through the mountain we
reached the bleak plateau which stretches in the direction of
Sao Joao da Pesqueira. Here the cultivation of the vine abruptly
ceased. The air, which was chilly in the shadow of the hills,
became bitter cold on the bi'eezy mountain summit. The distant
peaks rose cold and barren, or fringed with pines, against the
clear blue sky. All the land around was covered with brush
wood—merely a few little patches in favourable situations being
under tillage—and it was not until Pesqueira, with its red-
roofed houses, was seen spread out before us that vines again
appeared in sight. Pesqueira, both in its outskirts and narrow
streets, boasts several ancient palatial-looking edifices with
82                In the Port Wine Cowniry.




imposing escutclieons poised above their doorways, threatening
to fall and crush those who pass beneath. Such edifices in so
remote,and,at the epoch of their erection, well-nigh inaccessible
a region,with barren granite peaks, which here hem in the Douro,
frowning down upon them, and merely a few patches of neigh
bouring land under cultivation, come upon us by sui-prise and
excite our curiosity, but we seek in vain for their origin or for
any information concerning their builders.
    Passing through Pesqueira, a gateway on the right conducts
to the Quinta do Sidro, some couple of miles in circumference,
and admirably kept, where we find the vintage still going on.
Vines were first planted here sixty years ago, and some of them
are fully 1,000 feet above the level of the Douro, which at this
part is itself several hundred feet above the level of the sea.
The vines of this quinta had only recently been attacked by the
phylloxera, and that merely in the low situations. The produce
was estimated at 120 pipes, one-third of which was white wine,
in lieu of the 150 pipes of good years. Of the hundred hands
engaged in the vintage, the women were receiving a fi-action
over 5d. per day, together with their food (bread excepted), and
brf'*
                                                  <(
  ►V .




                                    Wx'Mt.
         ■ i'> ( i'.'--'K'''l ,-4   '' • '<   -'.-'1.
           •i'/,  , .
            ' 'U ••»! '

  h*-
TllK CACHAO DA VALLEIRA IN THE ALTO DOURO.
                                             <   ».l.)
     Somefamous Qumias on the Douro and the Bio Torto.          83

the men    d. Nearly the whole of them came from Pesqueira,
where the women returned of an evening to sleep. The casa
dos lagares, which stands near the centre of the vineyard on a
small terrace bordered by chestnut-trees, has its front completely
overgrown with ivy. It contains six lagares, all of moderate
dimensions, and a dozen tonels holding fi-om 24 to 32 pipes
each. At one end is a still where cheap wines, j)urchased for
the pui-pose, are distilled into brandy. Senhor Jorge Several,
the owner of this quinta, sells his wine to Messrs. G. G. Sa,nde-
man and Sons, and also superintends the vintage in other quintas
ia this part of the Doui'o,the produce of which Messrs.Sandeman
contract to purchase.
   Prom Sidro the road winds in the direction of the Douro,
where the craggy'height of Sao Salvador do Mundo,with a series
of little chapels perched at intervals up its side, detaches itself
from the surrounding hills. When near the summit we dis
mount, and, picking our way through tangled underwood and
jutting boulders, arrive near the verge of a precipice, whence
one looks down upon the foaming Doui-o, here shut in by tall
precipitous granite rocks. This is the dreaded Cachao da
Valleira—a long and narrow gorge, through which in former
years the river dashed and foamed and tumbled headlong, a
roaring cataract. At the close of the last century the rocks
which caused this fall and rendered navigation impossible were
demolished, and now boats can pass down the Douro, although
not without danger, from the Spanish frontier to the sea. As
they approach this perilous gorge, and the church of Sao Sal
vador comes in sight, the boatmen invariably bare their heads
and utter a brief prayer. When the water is at its ordinary
level the chances are that the passage will be safely effected;
but at high water, when the current is extremely rapid, it is
attended with great risk, and is at times even impossible. It
was in navigating this dangerous channel that Baron FoiTestei',
to whom the Alto Doui-o owes so much, lost his valuable life.
   Prom Sao Salvador you catch a glimpse to the westward of
a few vineyards climbing the lower slopes of the hills which
84                In the Port Wine Country.

border tbe river, wbile away to tbe east in the region of the
Superior Douro stretch the vine-clad terraces of the Quinta do
Vesuvio, the largest of the Douro vineyards. It comprises as
many as 750 acres, of which, however, scarcely one-half is under
vine cultivation,the yield being merely 300 pipes in lieu of the 800
pipes it ought to produce. Oranges, olives, and almonds are
largely grown in this quinta, where there are also considerable
plantations of mulberry-trees for the rearing of silkworms, and of
beans, maize, and cane-brakes for supplying .stakes for the vines.
On account of the great extent of the property it is divided into
three sections, each with its particular gangs of labourers and
special overseer. Immediately opposite to Vesuvio,on the right
bank of the Douro, is the Quinta da Coalheira, vintaging a
small quantity of high-class wine, and nearer to us, on the
same side of the river as the Quinta do Vesuvio, we sight the
Quinta do Arnozella, the wine of which was formerly in high
repute. Still closer to us are the Quintas de Vargellas, together
with the Quinta Nova do Cachao, all yielding wine of a good
quality, while across the stream are the quintas of Sao Martinho,
Sibio, and Caimaes. The wines of this part of the Douro are
much sought after for their fine muscat flavour. There are
but few other quintas of importance in the Superior Douro, and
these are noted principally for their white wines. The most
extensive vineyards are in the neighbourhood of the Fez do
Sabor, and higher up the Douro—at no great distance from the
Spanish frontier and the ancient little fortified town of Freixo
d'Bspada-4-Cinta, in other words,"Ash of the G-irded-Sword."
This town, according to tradition, owes its quaint name to
Dom Diniz, the husbandman-king, who, when he first passed
that way, was impressed by a huge ash-ti'ee on the summit of a
hill commanding a fuU view of the country on both sides of the
Douro. Dngirdiug his sword from his waist, the king buckled
it round the tree, exclaiming,"Here we will build a town,plant
vineyards and olive-trees, sow good fields of corn, and have
flocks and herds, and the town shall be called'Ash of the
 Girded-Sword!'"
                                                     MPvaH
ir«i^i«
          S'.'JiA^isrsfe^--- • • ii^<ir=!;£;c^^?5!
                VIXEVARDS XEAR THE FOZ DO SA130R IN THE SUPERIOR DOURO.   (A 84.)
    .v; I



' ■ vnp ■
U' ■' ■' >

    '■ -/f '' ' ', .




         W' - ■




                l: '^y>•<;■- ,
                tyli



              n-iJvi'A.:" , , ■
                             r        ■



                       ''t =.li! I'. .'*.. r''''if''' .   ^•
      Somefamous Quintas on the Douro and the Bio Torto.     85

    The ride home was a weaiy one, for our tired horses would
only proceed at an ambling pace. "When evening set in it
became absolutely necessary to urge them on in order that we
might reach the ferry across the Douro to our sleeping quarters
at the Quinta Amarella before the boatmen had gone away.
■My horse, on being suddenly urged into a brisker trot, stumbled
 and feU, landing me a few feet in front of him on a road of the
consistency of iron. Luckily the rim of my hat saved my head,
andIescaped with sundiy cuts and bruises. Pressing forward
we fortunately succeeded in arresting the attention of the ferry
men just as they were leaving for the night, and by dint of our
persuasive powers eventually prevailed upon them to ferry us
and our horses over to Pinhao.


r
                                                               1
                               m




              VINB-PBTTNIN& IN AN IJPPBB DOUEO VINEYABD.



   VI.—The Vinetaeds and Vines of the Alto Doueo.

The Planting of an Upper Douro Vineyard—Its cost—The various Vineyard
    operations—All the harder work performed by Gallegos, the common
    Drudges throughout Portugal—Ravages of the Phylloxera in the Alto
    Douro—Remedies employed by the more intelligent proprietors—Varieties
   of Grapes that enter into the composition of Port Wine—Species of Vines
    producing the White Ports—The Malvasia or Malmsey and Moscatel
    varieties of Grapes—Area of the Douro Vineyai-ds—Their produce of fine
   and ordinary Wines—Prices of these Wines in loco—Course of the River
   Douro—Climate of the Wine region—The proper elevation of a Douro
   Quinta—Rareness of Spring Frosts—Hail and Thunder storms in the Alto
   Douro—The Soil of the Vineyards, together with Vines, Trees, and Rocks,
   swept away by Rushing Torrents.

   The planting of a vineyard in tlie Upper Douro is a costly
proceeding, arising from tlie steepness and ruggedness of the
slopes along which the vines have to be cultivated. This con
formation of the ground obliges the wine-growers to adopt a
         Tlie Vineyards and Vines of the AUo Boziro.          87

mode of plantation to wkich. tlie sliarp windings of the valleys
give the effect of a vast amphitheatre, on the steps of which the
vine grows and bears fruit. These steps, kno'wn in the Douro
as calcos or geios, are foimed by cutting the ground away
longitudinally, generally about five or six feet in breadth and
three to four feet in depth, along the hill-side, and building up
walls a foot and a-half in width,and varying from two to ten feet
in height, according to the conformation of the ground, as
supports. On particular slopes as many as 150 of these stone-
built terraces may be counted rising one above the other. It is
not merely here and there that seemingly endless lines of
terraces have been constructed, but mountain after mountain
wiU. have its sides scored -with them, whei-eby a strange and
unpicturesque effect is imparted to the landscape. The amount
of labour expended in raising these Cyclopean staircases has
evidently been immense. The loose clay schistous soil in which
the young vines are planted, and which in time becomes disin
tegrated by atmospheric influences, is arranged nearly level, in
order that the torrential rains,common to the Upper Uouro, may
not wash it away and uproot the vines. It is no uncommon thing
during heavy storms for vines,and walls even,to be swept away,
and for the former to be carried down the Douro by thousands.
   The practice is to plant the vines in rows and from two and
a-half to upwards of three feet apart, with one or more rows
on each terrace, according to its width. The cost of planting a
vineyard of this description is always considerable, and at times
enormous. It varies from about .£9 to <£45 for 1,000 vines.
As on an acre of soil not more than a couple of thousand vines
can be planted, it follows that the cost per acre on the more
difficult sites is as much as <£90. At present it is even more,
the price of labour having increased greatly of late, so that the
average cost may be estimated at £50 per acre at the very
least. The work is usually done by the job and by natives of
Gallicia—Grallegos, as they are commonly called who arrive in
the Upper Douro regularly every October, and return to their
native mountains in the April or May following. In eveiy new
88                 In the Port Wine Country.

vineyard there are always a certain number of cuttings which
have failed to take root, and the common practice is to supply
their place hy provining, performed by cutting long trenches in
the same direction as the vines are planted, and turning down
and burying in them the stem of an adjacent vine, leaving three
of its shoots above ground to furnish in time three new vines.
These trenches are never completely filled up, in order that they
may receive all the rain-water flowing from the heights above.
After the vintage is over holes are also dug round the stocks of
the vines to receive the winter rains. This labour, known as
the escava, is immediately followed by the poda or pruning. An
old AJto Douro proverb says—
              "O cesto n'uma mao, e'n outra o podao"—
that is, "the basket in one hand and the pruning-knife in the
other    meaning that the vines should be pruned directly the
vintage is finished. At the pruning only a couple of branches,
which are to yield fruit the year ensuing and are never suffered
to grow more than three and a-half feet from the ground, are
left. A couple of eyes on the stock below these branches furnish
the shoots for the following year. Early in March the cava a
montes takes place—^that is, the loosening of the soil to a depth
of ten or twelve inches, followed by piling up the earth in heaps
in order that the roots of the vines may be protected from the
sun's more powerful rays. At the same time the vineyards are
thoroughly weeded. The next operation is the tying of the vines to
snpports made from cane-breaks, broom, and other shrubs, or
young pines,and even from reeds. This is accomplished by attach
ing the main branch of the vine near the second or third shoot to
the prop and securing the end to another, or, if the branch be
long, even to a third or fourth support. In May the redra, or
levelling of the heaps thrown up early in the spring, takes place,
when the ground is cleared of all fresh weeds and a new layer
of soil is exposed to the fertilising influences of the atmosphere
and the schistous fragments to more rapid disintegration. All
the digging is done with heavy two-pronged hoes, which the
labourers have to provide themselves with.
"1)




      I
                               3r!i?:iT




                                            ii




GROUP OF VINTAGFRS AT THE QUINTA DO NOVAL IN TTIE ALTO DOURO.
                                                                (A 89.)
        The Vineyards and Vines of the Alto Douro.            89'

    As o'iclivun still prevails in tlie Alto Douro vineyards, the
vines have to he sulphm-ed often twice a year, but invariably just
after they have blossomed. The sulphuring, together with the
pruning and training, is done by the labourers of the district;
but all the hard work of the vineyard, from raising the terraces
and building the stone walls to carrying the heavy baskets of
gi'apes to the lagares, and there treading them, is performed by
the toihng and thrifty Gallegos,some 8,000 of whom find employ
ment in the Alto Douro.       These men arc, moreover, the
common drudges throughout Portugal; and there is a con
temptuous Portuguese proverb that says, "Grod first made the
Portuguese, and then the Gallego to serve him." Latouche,in his
Travels in Portugal, observes that"of a hundred men-servants,,
coachmen, grooms, porters, and water-carriers, in the larger
towns of Portugal, ninety-nine are Gallegos, or Gallicians. The
rusticity, awkwardness,and slowness of the Galbcian have become
proverbial. Of an iU-bred man the Portuguese say all when
they say,'What a Gallician !' A coarse expression is a'Gal-
legada'—a Gallicianism. The epithet Gallician is even used
as an equivalent of wHd, common, or uncultivated; the crab-
apple is, with the Portuguese, the Gallician apple ; the common
cabbage of Portugal, which grows a yard or more in height, is
the'Couve GaUega'—the Gallician cabbage; and so forth." After
gaining all they can the Gallegos invariably return to then-
native villages, reversing, as some one has spitefully remarked,
the order of things observed by om- neighbours across the
Tweed. When paid according to time they receive about fifteen-
pence per day, with soup made of lard and vegetables, a salt
sardine or a bit of salted cod, and agua pe for drink. They have,
however, to provide their own bread. Pormerly they had to be
content with sixpence or so per day; but the cost of hard manual
labour has risen considerably of late,owing to the great demand
for it on pubbc works, notably the railway to the Spanish fron
tier in course of construction along the I'ight bank of the Douro.
   Of late years the ravages of the phylloxera in the Alto Douro-
vineyards have very far surpassed any damage done by the
 90                 In the Port Wine Country.

 oidium. The oidium chiefly attacks the fruit of the vine,the insect
blighting and -withering the grapes -which it preys upon, whereas
the phylloxera gnaws mainly at the roots of the plant, checking
its bearing powers and eventually causing it to perish. The
existence of the phylloxera in the Alto Douro vineyards was flrst
suspected in 1868, but nothing much was done to arrest the
 progress of the scourge until comparatively recently, and even
 now only the more intelligent and well-to-do -vine proprietors
 have attempted to cope -with it. The chief remedies employed
are—first, the hainit, or sulphate of potash, and natural magnesia,
which is sown on the carefully-tilled ground round the vine-
stocks in a powder consisting of a mixture of that substance -with
Aylesbury sewage and -vine-ashes in equal proportions ; secondly,
sulphurate of carbon made up into Eohart's cubes or gelatinous
prisms, which are thrust into the ground between the vine-
stocks at about a foot or a foot and a-half distance.
      A score or more of different varieties of grapes enter into
the composition of Port -wine. By far the best among them is
the touriga, which is assumed to bear some resemblance to the
oarbenet, the grand grape of the Haut Medoc. It is sloe-black
in colour, soft, pulpy, and thick-skinned, with a sweetness of
flavour which is almost nauseating, and is indicated in the
•expressed must by 24 per cent, of sugar. Next comes the
mourisco preto, or tinto, which the Trazmontanos have nick
named the "uva rei," or king grape, thick-skinned and pulpy
like the touriga, less sweet but pleasanter in flavour, and
yielding in must 65 per cent, of the weight of its bunches. The
tinta francisca, another prized variety, is said to be identical
-with the pineau noir of the Cote d'Or, of which species of vine
Mr. Archibald, the founder of the Quinta do Eoriz, obtained
uumerous specimens from France, as appears by the old
account-books of the quinta. This grape, as gro-wn in the Alto
Douro, is of a deep purplish black, not very pulpy, but suc
culent, thick-skinned, and extremely sweet, yielding, like the
touriga, 24 per cent, of sugar, and no less than 60 per cent, of
its weight in mosto. Of the alvarelhao, which is more plentiful
         The Vineyards and Vines of the Alto Douro.            91




      MOITBISCO AND TODBlaA VINES IN THE QUINTA DO NOTAi.


below than above the Eiver Corgo, there are two varieties, th.e
pe de perdiz, or partridge foot, and the pe branco,or white foot,
the fii-st being one of the best grapes grown in Portugal. It is
of an oval shape, scarcely black in colour, soft, decidedly sweet,
yet possessing an agreeable acidity, and will yield as mnch as
62 per cent, of its weight in must containing upwards of 26 per
cent, of sugar. The sweetest grape of all, however, is the
bastardo, also extremely prevalent in the Lower Corgo district.
The bunches of this variety—which ripens early are very
compact, the fruit being hard to the touch, and containing
plenty of pulp. It yields 51 per cent, of a fine pinkish must
containing more than 29 per cent, of sugar.
    The species of vine known as the cornifesto has the pecu
liarity of throwing out along its branches a number of productive
offshoots. Its fruit possesses the usual characteristics of the
Alto Douro grapes, being thick-skinned, sweet, and pulpy,
whilst the yield in must and sugar is of a fair average. The
variety known as the bona da mina is noted for its delicious
flavour; and the donzellino do castello, a bluish-black grape.
92                 In tite PoH Wine Gowntry.

combines a slight acidity vdth a delicate sweetness, and yields
a clear must charged hut slightly with viscous matters. The
souzao, the remaining black variety of grape grown in the Alto
Douro vineyards that claims especial mention, was brought
from the hanks of the Lima at the beginning of the last century.
It is round and thick-skinned, and the must, which is sub-
acidulous in taste, is remarkable for the abundance and bril
liancy of its colouring matter. A splendid pui-ple shade is com
municated to wines of a light tint by merely having the skins of
the souzao grape steeped in them. This grape yields 64 per
cent, of must in proportion to its weight, and contains, on an
average, some 12 per cent, of sugar.
    Of the varieties of white grapes grown in the Upper Douro
special mention is due to the verdelho, highly prized in Madeira,
and generally known in the Port wine district as the gouveio.
It is a hardy species and bears fruit early, and its must, which
emits a delicious perfume, contains 22 per cent, of sugar. The
mourisco branco, another prized variety, is an amber-coloured
pulpy grape of the size of a filbert, and with a very thick skin.
It produces 65 per cent, of generous must, and when grown in
cool soils often hangs in bunches nearly 4|lbs. in weight. The
rabigato, or"rabo de ovelha," as it is sometimes called, is an
excellent white grape, much esteemed for the abundance of its
fruit and the strength it imparts to the wine. In the Superior
and Alto Douro it is veiy productive and bears early, generally
yielding a very spirituous wine, unless grown at a considerable
altitude,when it does not ripen well. The berry is small in size,
has a fine translucent pale greenish-white skin, and yields
60 per cent, of must, containing 24 per cent, of sugar.
     In the Alto Douro several varieties of malvasias and moscatels
are cultivated, the most common of the former being the deli
cate malvasia fina, which yields a high-class white wine. The
aromatic malvasia roxa, a pinkish variety, notable for its fine
flavour and perfume, is grown only to a limited extent. Of the
moscatels the principal are the moscatel branco and the amber-
coloured moscatel de Jesus, the fruit of both of which yields a
         The Vineyards and Vines of the Alto Bouro.           93

good sweet wine of a particular kind, made, however, in very
limited quantities. Among the purple moscatels is the variety
which produces the well-known muscat wines of Setuhal, as
well as the moscatel preto, needing a rich soil to yield wine in
anything like abundance. All the malvasia and moscatel vines
in the Alto Doui-o appear to be particularly liable to the attacks
of the oidium.
   The Alto Douro wine district, comprising a series of steep
hiUs intersected by narrow ravine-like valleys, extends for a
distance of some thirty miles, and is from five to ten miles
in breadth. The vineyards are estimated to occupy an area
of about 86,500 acres. Their production, which varies con
siderably in different years, has largely fallen off since the
phylloxera has made its appearance in the district. In 1856,
when the oidium had done its worst, the total yield was merely
15,000 pipes of wine of 115 gallons each. Five years ago the
average yearly produce was calculated to be 80,000 pipes. Of this
quantity about one-fourth was fii-st-class wine, vintaged princi
pally in the Upper and to a small extent in the Superior
Douro, while of the second quahty, grown for the most part in
the Lower Douro, there were about 30,000 pipes. A portion of
the latter is ordinarily mixed with wine of the fii'st quality, and
the bulk of what remains is shipped to the Brazils. The in
ferior wine, of which about 30,000 pipes used to be vintaged,
comes from vineyards situated at a considerable altitude, and
 generally at some distance from the river and its tributaries.
 The price on the spot of the newly-made Douro wines ordinarily
 ranges from about .£12 for the best down to £6 per pipe for the
 inferior qualities. This, is, however, but a mere fraction of
 their cost by the time the wines are shipped to England.
     The general course of the Diver Douro is from east to west.
 The disposition of its banks, the great altitude of many of the
 heights which form the river vaUey, and the heat-absorbing
 properties of their soil, combine to give the region a peculiar
 chmate, temperate in the winter and extremely hot in the sum
 mer,owing to which circumstance dense fogs arise,causing ague to
 94                 In the Fort Wine Country.

 prevail in their immediate neighbourhood. During the summer
 months the temperatui-e in the sun frequently attains 122° Fahi-en-
 heit,and Baron Forrester mentions that at the vintage of 1852,in
 the months of September and October, the thermometer usually
 stood at 105° Fahrenheit in the shade. The colder temperature
 which prevails as one ascends the hills accounts for the grapes
 ripening later, as well as for the inferior quality of the wine
 grown above a certain altitude. The proper elevation of a Douro
 quinta is indicated by a local proverb,which says that"the best
 wine is grown within sound of the creaking of the boat rudders."
     The spring frosts, which in more northern countries are so
 injurious to the sprouting vine, are all but unkno^vn in the
 Douro region, and when they occur it is only in vineyards
 situated at an exceptional altitude. Although in winter fi'osts
are not particularly frequent, when they do happen they are
usually severe. Falls of snow are rare, and the flakes more
over melt on reaching the ground, excepting on the very
summits of the hills.     There is a regular but seldom over
abundant fall of rain all along the river banks during the winter,
and owing to the sea winds which continually bring masses of
vapour as far eastward as the Marao and Monte Muro, rain is
tolerably frequent on the Lower Douro throughout the summer.
Higher up the stream, however, there have been years when not
a drop of rain has fallen from May to September; but this is an
exception, for in the warm weather thunderstorms are by no
means iznfrequent. If not too violent they naturally exercise a
beneficial effect upon the parched soil and scorched vines, which
suffer more or less from the dry easterly winds. But at times
the rains are accompanied by large hailstones, and torrents of
water will dash from the summit of the more abrupt heights,
where no vegetation can restrain their progress,and bounding and
reboimding from ledge to ledge will carry away the loose soil of the
vineyards, tearing down walls, uprooting vines and trees, detach
ing masses of rock,and imparting great velocity to the current of
the Douro,the navigation of which frequently becomes obstructed
by the debris with which the rushing waters strew its bed.
   A""




            THE VIEEAGE OE CEEEEIEOS IN THE AETO DOHEO.



    VII.—The Inhabitants of the Alto Dotjeo Wine
                      Disteict.
Temperament of tbe People—Their Sturdiness—The Marriage Rite dispensed
    with hy the Peasantry—State ofEducation—Alto Douro Funerals—Gradual
    dying out of Ancient Superstitions—The Lohis-homen,orWehr-wolf—Its
    Nightly Occupation—The Bruxas,or Witches—Their Midnight Festivals—
    Antipathy of the Douro Peasant toJMilitary Service—His Ambition to be
    a Vineyard Pi'oprietor—The Alto Douro Wine-Farmer—His Honesty—
    His Hasty Temper—The Lawlessness formerly prevailing in the Alto
    Douro region—An Incident which occurred some few years ago at Tua—
    A Supper interrupted by a party of Ai-med Men—Courageous Conduct of
    a Feitor—A Dislocated Wrist and Broken Ribs—A Vain Search and a
    Lucky Escape from Assassination—Arrival of a Relief Party Death of
    the Leader of a Marauding Gang—Burial of the Corpse by a Goatherd.
   The Port wine country is in the province of Traz-oz-Montes,
that is,"Beyond the Mountains"—alluding to the Serra Marao.
It is hut thinly j)opnlated,and the hulk of the inhabitants, unlike
those of all other celebrated wine-producing regions with which
we are familiar, are miserably poor. Gloomy and morose, proud
and independent, they offer a striking contrast to their gay and
36                 In the Part Wine Country.

servile neighbours of the adjoining province of Entre-Douro-e-
Minho. The Transmontanos are a sturdy race, thriving -well on.
the salted cod, vegetables, and rye-bread which form their staple
fare. They are strict Catholics, and the majority of them think
it essential to attend the missa das almas, or early morning
mass, regularly every Monday before commencing work for the
week. Among the peasantry marriage contracts are unknown,
yet the men rarely abandon the women they take up with.
Children are numerous, but only of recent years have steps been
taken to secirre them some kind of education. To-day, however,
nearly every little village in the Alto Douro has its pubhc school,
at which attendance is obligatory, as most parents prefer then
children earning a few pence daily to receiving insti-uction which
they do not conceive tends to any pecuniary advantage. When
there is a funeral in the Alto Douro a kind of procession is
formed, headed by boys; afterwards comes the corpse, attired
in ordinary garments, and inclosed in a covered wooden box;
next follow the priest and his assistants,and then the male rela
tives and friends of the deceased, a crowd of women singing
hymns bringing up the rear. At a funeral which we chanced to
witness, the body, before being consigned to the grave, was
removed from its wooden receptacle,the latter to all appearances
being simply intended for the conveyance of the corpse to the
chirrchyard.
     The peasants of Traz-os-Montes are gradually abandoning
their ancient superstitions. Formerly they were devout be
lievers in "bruxas," or witches, and in the"lobis-homen," or
wehr-wolf, but to-day these merely serve the purpose of the
traditional bogie of the English nursery. Among the women a
behef in ghosts is still prevalent, and no Alto Douro peasant
hkes to hear a dog whine or the screeching of an owl at night
time in the village, as to his mind both of these sounds indicate
bad news, and possibly a death. The lobis-homen, according to
one account, is a young man or girl who being subject to a
spell is obhged when night sets in to take the form of a
horse and gallop wildly on until daybreak. Formerly when
   ■%iS^
    ■ :5iflO»^;\
    ,i;
VINTAGERS ATTENDING JIASS AT THE CHAPEL OF THE QUINTA DO NOVAL.   (/. 96.!
              Wr-.t' •
              4Vo"'' /• .




i. l ,
                            'iCrV"'   ■




         ■y          ■




                                          >«!S
        The Inhabitants of the Alto Douro Wine District.           97

the clatter of a horse's hoof was heard in the still night
time in a Traz-os-Montes village, the peasants used to cross
themselves and exclaim,"Grod help the poor lobis-homen!" The
 more popular idea of the lobis-homen was that the bewitched
individual took the form of a wolf and prowled about at night in
search of some newly-born infant to di'ink its blood,in order that
•it might escape the spell under which it lay, and cease to be a
lobis-homen. The superstition regarding the"bruxas"was a pecu
liarly horrible one. According to Mr. John Latouche they were
believed to dig up the bodies of children, who had died before
their first communion, with their finger-nails, and to carry them
away to the hills and feast upon them. If they chanced to pass
a sleeping shepherd on the way they would trail the dead child
by the hair of its head over his body and over any sheep as well,
and evei'y living thing it came in contact with was said to die
before sunrise.
    The Douro peasant is particularly averse to military service,
-and does his utmost to escape being drafted into the army. Many
young fellows emigrate to the Brazils before attaining the age
when they can be called upon to serve, and others resort to
self-mutilation to avoid having to shoulder a rifie.      The great
ambition of every man in the Port wine country is to be the
owner of a vineyard,and spite of the evil times which have fallen
of late years on the Alto Douro farmer, his great and indeed only
pride is in his vines. He is literally their slave. He toils and moils
in his vineyard only to gather an indifterent harvest, which yields
him scarcely a bare subsistence. The moment he sells his wine,
and months before he delivers it, beyond seeking the customary
deposit which binds the bargain,he will beg for some substantial
advance, of which you may be certain he is sorely in need. And
yet, pinched though he may be for money, he is thoroughly to
be trusted, and after agreeing to sell his wine will neither sophis
ticate it nor attempt in any way to cheat the purchaser. Still,
with all this, should he chance to have a dispute with a neigh
bour, on the provocation of an angry word he will run a knife
into his adversary without a moment's hesitatioir or subsequent
                                                               G
98                In the Port Wine Country.

regret. The after consequences will trouble him but slightly^
as the administration of justice is slow and uncertain in this
comparatively inaccessible region where only some few years
back a thorough spirit of lawlessness prevailed.
     I was informed by a fi-iend that about a dozen years ago
he had occasion to spend several weeks in the neighbourhood of
Tua, a miserable little village situated on the banks of the stream
of the same name that runs into the Douro about ten miles
above Pinhao. He was engaged in purchasing white Ports,,
which are alike good and cheap in this locality, and had taken
up his quarters in a house on the hUl-side which a wine-farmer
had placed at his disposal. Before his business was completed
he found himself attacked with ague, and had to remove to a
village higher up the hills, leaving his feitor, or foreman, to
finish the racking of the wines and to pay the growers a con
siderable balance remaining due to them.
    This man was a fine specimen of a Portuguese mountaineer,,
six feet two or three inches in height, and powerfully built.
The farmhouse in which he was installed was a long, low
building, sm-rounded by a vineyard, and containing one large
living-room and several adjoining alcoves that served the pur
pose of sleeping apartments. The principal room communicated
with the kitchen—in which the men engaged in racking the
wines lived—down a small flight of steep wooden steps, while a
larger and a steeper flight led from the kitchen to the adega,
containing half-a-dozen of the customary huge tonels, resting in
a row on stone and wooden frames some couple of feet from
the ground.
     Matters went on smoothly enough until one particular even
ing, when the feitor had invited the sacristan of the neighbouring'
chapel to sup ■with him. While partaking of this meal by the
glimmer of a Bouro lamp, which, fed with olive oil, imparts a
dim and depressing light, they were startled by the sudden appa
rition of four masked armed men, who proceeded to level their
guns at them. Per the moment the feitor was perfectly thundei-
struck, but, remembering that the men in his employ were in
       The Inhabitants of the Alto Bouro Wine Bistrict.       99

the adjacent kitchen,he extinguished the lamp and rushed on the
gang, grappling with the two foremost of the party and thrusting
them in the direction of the kitchen steps. On reaching the
doorway, however, he noticed by the light of the kitchen lamp
his own men standing armed with sticks,as though in league with
his assailants. Doubtful what to do, he grasped hold of a couple
of the masked men and dragged them with him down the
steps, falling and dislocating his wrist while doing so. In
the confusion which ensued the kitchen lamp was upset and
extinguished, and the feitor made at once for the adega, but,
stumbling down the steep flight of stairs, he again fell and broke
two of his ribs. Finding himself near the tonels he crawled be
neath one of them, and, creeping along, reached the tonel in
the furthermost corner, where he hoped to remain undiscovered.
   In the meantime the kitchen lamp had been relighted, and
the masked men, assisted by their accomplices, searched for the
feitor in various directions—^in the kitchen, in the dining-room,
and in the different alcoves—vowing the while that they would
hack him to pieces if they discovered him. They searched,
too, for the money which they knew he was in possession of to
pay the farmers for their wine, and which they believed to be
secreted somewhere in the feitor's sleeping-room,but with equal
unsuccess, for the money in question was really hidden in a
disused oven in the kitchen. Enraged at finding neither the
feitor nor the money, they proceeded to the adega, there to con
tinue their search, and while a couple of the gang sharpened
their long knives on a stone, the other two crept under the row
of tonels and commenced making a careful examination. They
had looked beneath the first, second, and third tonels, when one
of them suddenly remembering the sacristan, exclaimed that he
must be concealed upstairs, and might perhaps be able to tell
them where the money was kept. The pair thereupon hastily
withdrew and rushed up to the dining-roomj followed by their
comrades,but they all soon returned, having discovered one of the
dining-room windows open, and seen by the broken vines below
that the sacristan had made his escape that way.
100                In the P<yrt Wine Country.

    During their absence the feitor crawled from rmder the further
most tonel back to the one nearest the door, so that when the
men returned and resumed their search they failed to discover
him. Baulked of their prey they were ransacking the place of
what food it contained when shots outside were heard, and the
gang beat a hasty retreat. It seems that the sacristan, after
escaping through the window, had hm-ried to a neighbouring
village and aroused the inhabitants, a party of whom, armed
with guns, advanced to within a few hundred yards of the farm
house and then halted to fire a volley. Some of them pretended
this was done to fiighten the robbers in case they might be
murdering the feitor, but it is far more probable, as they had
many friends among the villagers, that the object was to give
them timely warning to escape.
   The feitor's wounds and broken bones having been attended
to, he was sent by my friend down the Douro to Oporto, where
he had to remain for several months in the hospital before he
was completely right again. The poor sacristan kept very quiet,
being in constant dread of the vengeance of the gang, the chief
of whom was well known. Such, however, was the lawless state
of the district that no one dared denounce, much less arrest
him, and he openly boasted that the sacristan should never see
another vintage. This threat rendered the sacristan desperate,
and he got a couple of friends to lie in wait for the ruffian, and
one evening as the latter was passing through a vineyard they
shot him dead before he could level his own gun. The body
remained where it fell for several days, as the village priest
refused to bury it in consecrated ground, and no one would
give themselves the trouble to inter' it elsewhere. A.t length a
goatherd was induced, by the promise of a knife and a blanket,
to bury the corpse a few inches deep in the loose slaty soil of the
vineyard where the man met his death. No legal inquiry was
held into the circumstances of the latter. The village was
rid of one of its pests, and nobody thought it his business to
apprise the authorities that this had been accomplished by
violent means.
                            VIEW OE EEaOA.



 vm.- -The Return Journey—Regda—Baixo Corgo ani>
                            Villa Real.

Along the Banks of the Douro to Kegoa—Origin of the Capital of the Port
   Wine District—Earliest Shipments of the Douro Wines to England—The
   Methuen Treaty—Port Wine in Difficulties—Rise in its Price and Falling
   off in its Quality—Formation of the Alto Douro Wine Company—Its Arbi
   trary Privileges and more Arbitrary Proceedings—Its eventual Abolition
   —Some Baixo Corgo Quintas—The limits of the Paiz Vinhateiro—A party
   of Homeward-bound Vintagers—Prices of the Lower and Upper Corgo
   Wines—The Journey to Villa Real—A Sunday Scene at Sao Miguel de
   Lobrigos—Halt at Cumieira—Typical Portuguese Beggars—Reach Villa
   Real—Great Antiquity of the Town—Dom Diniz, "who, as every one
   knows, did what he chose"—Fine old Houses built by Adventurers roturne<l
   from India and the Brazils.

   At the expiration of the second week in October the vintage
in the Paiz Vinhateiro, above the Corgo, was coining to an end,
and I turned my back, though not without regret, upon the
quintas and their interminable terraces of vines, the carolling
vintage girls and the wearied lagariros,the laden wine-boats and
the creaking bullock-carts, the perilous roads and insalubrious
mountain villages,and proceeded to Regoa. Hei'e I spent a few
102               In tlie Pm-t Wine Country.

days making excursions in the Baixo Corgo district, -where,
owing to the dearth of hands, the gathering and pressing of the
grapes was still going on. I returned by the same road along
which I had ridden nearly three weeks pre-vdously,and profited by
the circumstance to -visit one of the largest Douro quintas—
namely, that of Valm6r—^belonging to the viscount of the same
name. This quinta is situated on the left bank of the Douro,
between the Eio Tedo and the Valley of Folgoza, and one rides
along its borders for a distance of more than two miles. It
•comprises 200 acres, not, however, all under cultivation with the
vine, but nevertheless yielding in good years as many as 256
pipes of first-class wine. The highway separates the capacious
oasa dos lagares from the vast and well-arranged adegas, and
the -wine is run off from one to the other by means of pipes
passing -under the road.
   Eegoa,standing on the slope of a low hill, on the right bank
of the Douro, which here expands itself, as it were, on emerging
from a gorge, is a town of no very ancient date, owing its origin
entirely to the Port -wine trade. The surrounding hills subsiding
into gentle slopes, -with endless undulations, are planted -with
vines, and dotted -with scattered villages and numerous casas,
while the loftier summits are cro-wned with pines and other
forest trees. .A. couple of centuries ago, when the -vineyards were
principally concentrated hereabouts, all the Do-uro -wines de
signed for Opoito used to be shipped at this convenient point.
In the course of time there sprang up wine-stores, erected by
the larger merchants on the margin of the river, and then houses
for residence clustered around them. Centuries before,however,
a, little town, known to-day as Pezo da Eegoa, existed higher up
the slope, and here at the present time the aristocracy and
wealthy vine-proprietors of the district have their residences.
On the same side of the river on which Eegoa is situated, but a
few hundred yards higher up, the Eio Corgo mingles its waters
with those of the Douro. In years gone by this little river used
to form a line of demarcation, the wines grown above which
were not allowed to be shipped to England,on the plea that they
          The Reticrn Journey—Regoa—Baixo Cargo.            103


-were of inferior quality. Time, however, has accomplished one
of its customary revolutions, and to-day a precisely contrary
•opinion of their merits prevails.
   It is just about a couple of centuries ago when the Alto
Domo wines were first regularly imported to England, conse
quent, it is said, upon a falling off in the Florence vintages.
During the year 1678 the entire shipments from Oporto to all




           CONELUEKCE OF THE EIO CORGO AfID THE DOrEO.


 parts of the world amounted to little more than 408 pipes. Port
 wine is erroneously supposed to have come into general con
 sumption in England consequent upon the Methuen Treaty,
 signed in 1702,and which secured fi'ee admission for our woollen
 goods into Portugal in return for the reduction of the duties on
 Portuguese wines to two-thirds of the duties levied on the wines
 •of Prance. No considerable increase in the import of Douro
 104                In fhe Port Wine Country.

 •wines to England resulted from this treaty. Nine years before-
 it was signed—namely, in 1693—we received as many as 13,011
 pipes of these -wines, whereas during the first fifteen years of
 the existence of the treaty only in one year—namely, in 1716—
 was the quantity exceeded, and then merely by 900 and odd
 23ipes. At this period English merchants in Oijorto j)aid as.
 much as 60 milreis, or ^813 6s. 8d., for the pipe of Alto Douro-
 wine—a price which tempted the growers to make considerable-
 plantations of new -vineyards. Very soon afterwards the cjualitv
of the wine began to deteriorate. Not only were inferior
gro-wths mixed -with it, but it was sojAisticated in various wavs.
causing it to fall into such great disrepute that by the middle of
the eighteenth century the best wine in the market commanded
no more than ten milreis, or under <£2 5s., per pijie. Owing to
this inadequate price, and the poverty of the growers, the vine-
yai-ds became neglected and their produce diminished. Mer
chants and producers accused each other of being the cause of
this disastrous state of things, and the latter appealed to theh-
govemment to save them fi-om impending ruin.
    In the year 1754 we find an English firm complaining to-
their agents in the Alto Douro that "the grower at the time of"
the vintage was in the habit of checking the fermentation of the-
-wines too soon by putting brandy into them whilst fermenting.,
a practice," they emphatically remark, "which must be con
sidered as diabolical; for after this the -wines will not remain-
quiet, but are continually tending to ferment and to become
ropy and acid." The agents in reply assert that "the English,
merchants knew that the first-rate wine of the Factory had
become excellent, but they -wished it to exceed the limits which
nature had assigned to it, and that when drunk it should feel
like liquid fire in the stomach, that it should burn like inflamed
gunpowder, that it should have the tint of ink, that it should be
like the sugar of Brazil in sweetness, and the spices of India in
aromatic flavour. They began by recommending, by way of
secret, that it was proper to dash it -with brandy in the fermen
tation to give it strength, and with elderberries or the rind of
           The Return Journey—Regoa—Baixo Cargo.              105.

the grape to give it colour; and as the persons who used the
prescription found the wine increase in price and the English
merchants still complaining of want of strength, colour, and
maturity in the article supplied, the recipe was propagated till
the wine became a mere confusion of mixtures."
    Two years afterwards, in 1756, when the annual exports had
fallen from an average of more than 20,000 pipes down to 12,000,.
the imperious Marquis de Pombal, in accordance with the erro
neous economic notions of the time, of which he was the fanatic
exj^onent, established an Agricultural and Commercial Company
for the Wines of the Douro, with the intention of repaiiing the
existing state of things,and above all of preserving the pm-ity of
the wines in question. This Company was invested with the
most arbitrary privileges. In the words of its statutes its objects
wei'e"to uphold with the reputation of the wmes the culture of
the vineyards, and to foster at the same time the trade in the-
former, establishing a regular price for the advantage alike of"
those who produce and who trade in them, avoiding on the one-
hand those high prices which, rendering sales impossible, ruin
the stocks, and on the other such low prices as prevent the
growers from expending the necessary sum on the cultivation of
their vineyards." The staff of the Company comprised a presi
dent, twelve deputies, six cormcillors, a secretary, a judge con
servator, a fiscal judge, a notary, and a constable, together with
a posse of clerks, stewards, overseers, commissioners, bailiffs,,
tasters, and the like. The highest and the lowest arrogated to
themselves unusual powers, and the deputies constituted a true
oligarchy. To this day their quintas in the Alto Douro are dis
tinguishable by the magnificence of the mansions and the j)on-
derous escutcheons proudly displayed over their principal door-,
ways. The Companyhad the monopoly secured to them of the wine
trade of the Douro with England and Brazil, the distillation-
and the sale of brandy in the northern districts of Portugal, and
the exclusive supply ofthe taverns and wine-shops of Oporto and
its environs—a privilege which led to some serious riots, and to as
many as six-and-twenty individuals perishing upon the scaffold..
106               In the Port Wine Country.
                                                               H
    The Company commenced operations by arbitrarily dividing
the viticultural region of the Alto Douro into two distinct circum
scriptions, from one of which wine for export was exclusively to
be derived, while from the other wine for home consumption was
obtainable. Every year its officials decided on the exact quantity
■of wine that might be exported, had the wines classified by then-
tasters, put prices upon them which the growers were obliged
to accept, and issued permits for all wine selected for ex
portation, lacking which not a single pipe could leave the
grower's stores. In course of time, however, these permits
  were openly sold in the market at the rate of ^£3 per pipe or
  thereabouts, and by securing them merchants were enabled to
 ship whatever wine they pleased. No sooner was a vintage over
  than the Company's tasters flocked up the Douro in a shoal, drew
• samples from every one of the growers' large vats, and marked
 and classified them. They congregated in a large room, where
many of them began to smoke, and under such conditions the
samples were submitted to their judgment. Numbers of these
•officials had no knowledge whatever of wine, and certainly not of
 wine a few weeks old; still their decision was irrevocable. Never
 theless, for a bribe of half-a-doUar it was frequently possible to
substitute wine of any quality for one of the official samples.
    To check adulteration the Company secured the passing of a
law making it a felony—punishable with transportation for life
and confiscation of all property—on the part of any one having a
single elder-tree growing on his premises within five miles of
the boundary-lines of the districts it had caused to be marked
■out. This monstrous state of things endured until the year
1833, when the Company was abolished, to be re-established,
however, ten years subsequently with the same powers regarding
the classification of the wines, but with the arbitrary viticultural
circumscriptions done away with. This second Company was
finally dissolved in 1853, since which time the trade in Port wine
has been perfectly unfettered.
   WhileIwas at EegoaIvisited several notable quintas in Baixo
Oorgo, whence came the original Port wine that our forefathers
           Tlie Betum Journey—Begoa—Baixo Cargo.               107


Msed to drink. The produce of these quintas, although in most
instances small, is usually unexceptionable as regards quality.
Among those visited may be mentioned the Quinta do Terrao,im-
•diately facing the entrance to the Corgo valley, but on the oppo
site bank of the Douro; the Quinta do Valle da Lage, in a
southerly direction,a few miles on the road to Valdigem, with its
slopes stretching down to the little Rio Baroza; also the Quinta
^o Mourao, still on the left bank of the Douro and on the road
to Lamego, together with the quintas of Quintiao, Moinho de
Vento, and Bellas, all three in the same direction, and the two
former lying close together. We drove to them along the wild
and picturesque valley of the Baroza, with grey masses of rock
towering above the luxuriant autumn foliage,and whence a view
of the ancient Moorish Castello da Reposa, perched on a distant
peak, was obtained. On the road we passed a troop of young
■girls, and some pitiable-looking old crones, verging on to seventy,
bending under the heavy burthen of five-and-twenty huge
earthenware jars packed in coarse sacking, which, although they




                    m




                        THB QtriNTA DAS BEIDAS.
 108              In the Port Wine Country.

 would Lave been a good load for a mule, each of these poor
 creatures had to stagger along with on their heads. The Quinta
 Moinho de Vento overlooks the Douro, and among the vines on
the opposite bank gleam the white houses of Pezo da Eegoa.
At this quinta some fifty pipes of wine are produced,a small por
tion of which is white, while at the Quinta das Bellas, a mile dis
tant to the east,thirty pipes of red and ten of white mne are vin-
taged. Everywhere it was almost a repetition of the scene we
had left behind us higher up the Douro, the only difference
being that everything was on a smaller scale. There were fewer
pickers in the vineyards, and fewer treaders in the lagares>
which, like the tonels, were smaller and less numerous. The
mode of vinification was precisely the same. The three last-
mentioned quintas belong to Senhor Antonio da Costa, of Eegoa-
the able commissano in the Alto Douro of Messrs. G. G. San-
deman and Sons. At the Quinta das Bellas we tasted some
choice tawny Port vintaged in 1847,fresh in flavour and with an.
agreeable sub-pungency, but so pale in colour that it would
never have been taken for a red wine.
   On descending the Douro from Eegoa, vineyards dotted over
with olive-trees,and fields and orchards interspersed with clusters
of oaks and chestnuts,are seen on either hand,with little villages
crowning the more prominent heights, and the bright-looking-
casas of liver-side quintas rising up at intervals along the margin
of the stream. On the right is Caldas de Moledo, backed by
terraced slopes of vines, and immediately afterwards the valley,,
through which the Eio Seromenha comes rushing from the Serra.
do Marao to mingle its waters with those of the Douro,opens to-
our view. Here we momentarily catch sight of the bleak and
barren summits of the distant Marao range. Below this valley
are the meadows and orchards of Eede, and farther on are thes^
vineyards of Mesao-Erio sweeping round the base of Mont
Soa Silvestre as far as the village of Barqueiros, where the vdne-
district of the Alto Douro ends.
   In the Baixo Corgo vineyards the leading varieties of grapes,
cultivated are the alvarelhao and the bastardo. Although the-
           The Reiiirn Journey—Regoa—Baixo Corgo.               109




                             SEBOJIENHA.



liistrict is far more densely populated than the parts above the
Coi-go, nine-tenths of the people employed at the vintage came
from afar, the men receiving fi-om Is. Id. to Is. lOd. per day,
and the women from 6d. to 8d. While I was at Eegoa I came
by accident upon a party of vintagers on the way to their distant
homes after the conclusion of their labours, the men in jackets
■or their shirt-sleeves and broad-brimmed hats, and mostly carry
ing long quarter-staves; the women ■with gay-coloured kerchiefs
tied over their heads, and, ■with one or two exceptions, bare-legged.
The party comprised players on the drum, fiddle, and guitar,
and most of the others were provided with castanets. The time
■to which they danced and sang was a very humdrum one, still
they gaily pirouetted along, musicians and all, not dancing as
though for money, as on the stage, nor in compliance "with
social exactions, as in a ball-room, but for the pure love of the
thiag, going over t'wice or thrice the ground they need other
wise have done. At particular points the music and the singing
rose to a louder key, when the dancers, throwing up their arms,
brandished their staves and whirled round and round, leaping at
times into the air with um*estrained delight. And althoughI
110                In the Pcn-t Wi7ie Country.
                                                               H'
•was the sole spectator of their capering,this continued until I was
beyond sight and hearing, so that it was evident they neither
danced nor sang for my solitary gratification. The incident had
certainly one drawback—the women, whether young or old,
were both ugly and unkempt. If they had only endeavoured




                                                              h




to compensate for their want^ oft p'harms by some slight atten-
tion to their personal appearaU
a more interesting one              qT,ality-which was being vin-
      The     e-generally
                       V of good q" f              commandPd from
                                             visit commanded
taged in the Baixo Corgo at the+Tie
                               timefirst-class
                                     oi oui growths, and from
.°
6 to        gumeas per pipe for tne ux           &       >
5 to 6 tineas for the second-class. In the vineyards above the
Corgo the price of the newly-vintaged wine ranged from about
6A guineas to as high as 11 guineas per pipe for the finest
quaUties. The first cost is, however, largely supplemented
by the expense of carriage, warehousing, frequent rackings.
          The Return Journey—Regoa—Baixo Cargo.              Ill

loss by evaporation and ordinary ullage, as well as interest
on money, before tbe wine is in a condition for sbipment. It is.
impossible to obtain even an approximate idea respecting tbo
annual production of the Paiz Vinhateiro during recent years,
the "arrolamento," which formerly supplied some valuable-
statistics respecting this and other matters, having been
abolished on the pretext of economising the comparatively small
sum which the collection of these returns used to cost. Port
Yune is, however, taxed sufficiently heavily by the Government
to admit of proper statistics being compiled concerning so
important an article of commerce, and which is, moreover, a
source of so much wealth to the district producing it.
   From Eegoa we proceeded to Villa Eeal, leaving Fontellas.
and its quintas on our left hand, notable among which is the
Quinta do ISTeto, famous for its bastardo and malvasia vines and
yielding upwards of a hundred pipes of wine. As one winds up-
the steep road the eye takes in an extensive panorama of vine-
clad hUls displaying all the varied tints of autumn, streaked
here and there with plantations of olives, dotted over with little
villages and scattered casas, and fidnged at their summits with
gloomy pine-woods. Crowning a lofty hill on our right hand is.
Villa Maior with its celebrated quintas, and after awhile we
pass through the village of Sao Miguel de Lobrigos, with the
famous vineyards of Sao Comba occupying the steep slopes in-
front. It is Sunday, and women are gossiping in groups on the
doorsteps, while a few, rather more regardful of their personal
appearance than is customary, occupy themselves in arranging^
their front and back hair—sadly in need of their attention—in
public. Men whose garments are stained all over with new-
made wine are lounging inside and around the village venda, in
front of which a constable in imiform promenades up and down
flourishing a long stick, while troops of well-laden donkeys,
snatch a limited i-epose under the shade of some spreading-
chestnut-tree.
   We pass through Cever, leaving the vineyards of Sarnadello.
on our right, skirt Oonciero and the large Quinta do Jose Luis,
 112               In tlie Port Wine Country.

yielding its 120 pipes, wWle a few miles fartlier on, at Bertello,
we pass tlie extensive Quinta do Dr.Avelino, where 200 pipes of
Ihe best Baixo Corgo wine is vintaged, and the smaller one of
 Antonio Osorio producing its 120 pipes. While we halt at
 Cumieira to replace a shoe which one of om* horses has cast,
 a couple of the typical old beggars common to the Peninsula
-earnestly plead and pray for a tostas or a vintem. These mendi
cants are the precise counterparts of the hoaiy knaves hit off so
cleverly in all their rags and dht by Callot's truthful burin, with
their rheumy eyes and grizzly beards,slouched hats and tattered
gaberdines, long staves and ragged shoon, and bent frames and
■shambling gait.
   The Baixo Corgo vineyards may be said to end at Cumieira,
and while winding up the road to Villa Real we caught a final
glimpse of the vintage girls roaming over the receding ten-aced
slopes, and heard their melancholy monotonous chant for the
last time. ViUa Real is perched on the summit of a steep
mountain, and from the adjacent cemetery you look over a lofty
■precipice into the wild gorge, through which the turbulent
waters of the Corgo fume and foam on their way to the Douro.
The town is of great antiquity, and from its proximity to the
Paiz Vinhateiro is necessarily of considerable importance, being,
indeed, the capital of the province of Traz-os-Montes. It claims
to have been founded in the 13th century by Dom Diniz, the
E'ing Denis of the popular rhyme, " who, as every one knows,
did what he chose," and the low massive-built granite houses
 still standing around the church belong, it is said, to this
-early epoch. Like Pesqueira, Villa Real boasts several of those
 palatial-looking old mansions, the origin of which is somewhat
■^of a puzzle. In the present case wealthy vineyard proprietors
may have been the builders, still their erection is generally
attributed to obscure adventurers, who, on their return to Portu
gal laden with the treasures of India and the Brazils, were intent
upon dazzling their former fellow-townsmen with tangible evi-
■dences of the wealth they had amassed.
               . .-Vi' A-' V-v\->c^?»/i..if'\-




                                                    jlA^lLlTA^

          ^■'V'-ivifW, '--Si
                        Vr-^Sn '«




        ili/Mj




                    MINHO BrLLOOK-OAKT BBIVEES.


IX.-   -The Port Wine Capital—A Couple op Villa Nova
                            Wine Lodges.

We Eecross the Scrra do Marao—Bullock-Drivers wearing great-coats made
   of Eushes-Plcturesaue coup d'ceil presented by                fo3o
   of the Biver Douro-Its varied Craft-Most of the Hard Work at Opoito
   performed by Women—The Female Bullock-Drivers and their partiality
   for Jevvellery-Tho Oporto Streets so many Paved Precipices Long
   Horns and Ornamental Yokes of the Oxen-Karity of Female Beauty
   throughout Portugal-Is most prevalent among the Peasantry Sedan
   Chairs still used by Oporto Ladies-City Kight Patrols--Tortoises and
   Mussels-Bedundancy of the Picturesque and Absence of the ^tistic
   at Oporto—Scarcity of Fireplaces in the Oporto Houses Capotes and
   Woollen Shawls common at Winter-time in Oporto Drawing-rooms The
   Eua dos Inglezes and the British Factory-house—Villa Nova da Gaia—
   The Lodges of Messrs. G. G. Sandeman and Sons-Their Antiquated Aspect
   —Arrival of New Wine from the Alto Douro-Its Blending and subse-
                                                                 H
 114                  In the Port Wine Country.

     quent Racking—Poi-t kept sparingly in Solei-as—Messrs. Sandemon's
                                                                      1
    gloomy-looking Amarella Stores—The Firm's large stock of Port Wine—
    Their Cooperage—^Martinez,Gassiot,and Co.'s Lodges—A Rustic Counting-
    house—Coopers at Work—Gauging, Branding, and Seasoning of New
    Pipes—PaUing-in of a Lodge Roof—Conservative Spirit observable at
     Martinez, Gassiot, and Co.'s—Pipes preparing for Shipment — Brandy
    kept isolated in the Lodge.

   In returning to Oporto by way of Villa Real it is still neces
sary to recross the lofty Serra do Marao,with its cold grey granite
peaks, its wild and precipitous slopes, with huge boulders rising
out of the russet bracken, its rushing watercourses, green fertile
valleys, and little white villages, half-hidden by the embowering
chestnut-trees. The day being wet the drivers of the bullock-
carts on the Minho side of the mountain wore their palho9as,
or long loose great-coats, with large capes, made of dried rushes,
which gave to their wearers the appearance of being thatched
from head to heels with straw. By the time Oporto was reached
it was dusk, so that one had no ojiportunity of judging of the
aspect of the city on its northern side. Arrive, however, at the
Port wine capital from whatever quarter you may,the fii-st view
is almost certain to impress you. If you come by sea and
disembark at Foz, the Portuense Brighton, with its long rows
of canvas bathing-cabins, and its red, green, and yellow houses
in their pretty gardens, all under the shadow of an old granite
castle built in the days of the Spanish domination—or if you
arrive by rail from the south,the instant the city comes in sight,
with its compact pile of houses, churches, and public buildings
towering one above the other in irregular tiers along the preci
pitous cliff which rises fi'om the brink of the river, you cannot
fail to be impi-essed by the picturesque coup d'oeil.
    Some inelegant chm-ch-towers and a few pretentious edifices
break up this singular jumble of quaint-looking houses, with
their belvederes, pointed projecting roofs, gaily-tinted fa9ades,
and endless lines of ornamental balconies. On the high table
land to the west—facing a cluster of Villa ITova wine-lodges
perched among the trees up the side of a steep hiU—stands the
      The PoH Wine Capital—Villa Nova Wine Lodges.            115

Opoi'to Crystal Palace; while to tlie east, and immediately in
front of the famous Serra convent, a tasteless colossal square
edifice, known as the Bishop's Palace, towers above the sur
rounding buildings.    The vast Serra convent, parcelled out
to-day in dwellings for the working classes, and occupying, with
its octagonal church, a bold and lofty eminence on the Villa ITova
side of the river, is certain to form a prominent object in the
view. The Douro—^here broad and placid enough, and spanned
by a lofty railway bridge—is always teeming with life. Among
the schooners and the barques discharging their cargoes of wheat
and flour from America, and dried cod from Norway and New
foundland, the Newcastle and Cardiff coUiers, and the solitary
steamer taking in its thousand or so pipes of fruity or tawny
Port, there is no end of smaller craft, including large broad-
beamed fishing-boats—with the invocation,"God preserve us,"
rudely painted in red letters on their sides—putting out to sea
manned by as many as fifty or sixty hands, who, when the wind
fails the huge lateen sails, row out of port, standing with their
faces towards the bows after the fashion common to the Levant;
also coasting rascas, with stumpy masts aud tapering lateen
sails, Orieutal-lookiug high-prowed begas and saveiras, and
clumsy gondola-like toldes, with an occasional yacht or launch
owned by some Englishman of aquatic tastes. Then there are
the flat-bottomed wine-boats, with large square sails and formid
able-looking rudders, discharging their cargoes of youthful Port
from the Alto Douro at Villa Nova, together with innumerable
ferry-boats, with low wooden awnings, plying incessantly between
one bank of the river and the olhei.
   The quays, and on market-days the streets, of Oporto are uU
of animation, and it is evident that more than their fair share of
the heavy work falls upon the weaker sex. Most of the lower-
class women have either a bullock-goad m their hand or half-a-
hundredweight on their heads. Wearing short full skirts that
display their well-shapen bare legs, coiffured with bright
kerchiefs and black turban-shaped hats, their breasts adorned
with huge gold brooches, and their ears hung with huge gold
116                In the Port Wine Country.

 earrings of antique mauresque design, ttey deftly guide tlie
 stream of primitive-looking bullock-carts up and dovm tbe
"winding streets, every otber one of "whicb is a paved precipice,
 and so rudely paved "withal as to threaten incautious pedestrians
•with a sprained ankle at every second step. The animals yoked
to these carts have long outstretching horns, measmdng at times
fully four feet between the tips, and threatening to thrust out
the eyes of heedless passers-by. Most of the yokes are elabo
rately carved in relief or perforated, and not unfrequently gaily
coloured with interlacing arabesques. Besides acting as bullock-
drivers the fair sex assist in discharging the cargoes of the ships
in harbour, including even the colliers, and p)erform most of the
porter's work of the city.
    Female beauty is rare throughout Portugal, and of that
encountered in the Port wine capital—putting, of course, one's
own fair countiywomen out of the question—the larger share
certainly pertains to the peasantry of the environs. At the
principal theatre of the city, after a minute inspection of the
occupants of the boxes,it is possible to count upon the fingers of
a single hand the few pretty faces you will have succeeded in
discovering, and the process may be repeated night after night.
Ladies still go to the theatres here in the old-fashioned sedan
chairs, the unexpected apparition of which,"with their quaintly-
attired chainnen, in one of the more ancient tortuous streets,
relegates one back for at least a centmy. These dimly-
lighted, long, narrow, winding thoroughfares would appear to
be slightly dangerous at night-time, judging from their being
regularly patrolled by helmeted horse-guards with drawn swords,
who,from the slow pace at which they move, have been irreve
rently nicknamed"tortoises" by the Portuenses. Why the latter
have given the name of"mussels" to the guardians of the peace
posted after dark with their loaded rifles at the end of many of
these thoroughfares is less comprehensible.
   Everything combines to render Oporto one of the most pic
turesque cities of the Peninsula. Site, surroundings, the ex
cessive steepness of the streets, the quaint and diversified
"j"




                        . . . * ■'. r "•'' ^'
•   B   .-. »■»■.. 'i
   THE RUA DOS INGLEZES AT OPORTO.
PROM A DRAWING DY BARON I'ORRBSIER, MADE IN
                                              <   "7^
       The Port Wine Capital—Villa Nova Wine Lodges.         117

character of the gaily-coloured houses, with their endless lines
of ornamental balconies, the utter absence of all architectural
uniformity, the many public fountains, surrounded by crowds
of garrulous Gallegos, the primitive-looking bullock-carts, the
smartly-attired and bejewelled bare-legged peasant-wo men, the
old-fashioned sedan chairs and eccentrically-attired chairmen,
and, above all, the river, with its animated quays and diversified
craft—all assist the crowded picture which on every side pre
sents itself. In the Port wine capital there is a redundancy
of the picturesque, but scarcely a scrap of what can be styled
real art.   There is not so much as a church-tower, buttress, or
pinnacle, house, gable, doorway, or window ; not a piece of stone
or wood carving, or a bit of ironwork in the myriads of balconies,
over which Mr. Euskin could consistently go into raptures.
During the rainy season the water from these balconies and
from the roofs of the older Oporto houses pours down pitilessly,
through the myriad of trumpet-shajoed gargoyles with which the
latter are so considerately provided, upon the heads of helpless
passers-by. If gargoyles are many chimney-pots are few, for
most of the Oporto houses have no other fireplace beyond the
kitchen one, a circumstance which renders it necessary for gen
tlemen to wear their capotes within-doors, and for ladies to
wi'ap themselves up in thick woollen shawls in their drawing-
rooms, when the cold weather sets in. In the Eua dos In-
gl0zes—the Street of the English—a broad and rather handsome
thoroughfare, planted with shady trees, and running parallel
with and near to the river, several important Port wine shippers
have their offices. At one end of it is the British Factory-
house, an institution of some account in former times,but which
of recent years seems to have subsided into a kind of sleepy
club, limited to very few members, but liberally provided with
English newspapers and magazines. Singularly enough, it
closes when the day's work is over, so that not even such mild
dissipation as an evening rubber is by any chance indulged in
within its exemplary walls.
   The Port wine trade is principally centered at Villa Nova
 118              In the FoH Wine Country.

 da Gaia, a suburb of Oporto,on the opposite bank of the Douro,
and in the"lodges" of ■which some hundred and fifty thousand
pipes of -wine must be ordinarily stored. Embarking at the
 ferry stairs at the foot of the Eua do Sao Joao, a couple of
minutes sufiice to ro-w us across the Douro, and -we land in front
of an open space planted ■with a few trees, where half-a-dozen
bullock-carts are waiting to be laden close to the water's edge.
Perched on a lofty hill to the left the church of the Serra
convent, which played such a notable part in the Miguelite
siege of Oporto, looks down upon the Douro, and immediately
in fi'ont of us is a granite building ■with an open arcade below,
and some sculptured flaming urns surmounting its slightly
ornamental facade. On the principal doorway a small tablet,
ha^ring a miniature representation of the Dnion Jack in one
comer, notifies that the edifice is British property, the ©■wners
being Messrs. G. G. Sandeman Sons and Co., the eminent
Port wine shippers, whose names for half-a-century past have
regularly headed the Oporto shipping list. Here the firm have
their ofiices, presenting somewhat of the antiquated appearance
of a substantial merchant's counting-house of the last century,
and adjoining is a network of lodges, in which their exten
sive stock of wine is stored. These comprise a series of irre
gular constructions, including numerous galleries or " cumes,"
as they are technically termed, communicating occasionally ■with
each other by means of lofty arches, and many of them having
all the appearance of great age. Fungi overspread the damper
walls, rude, ponderous, blackened beams support their pointed
roofs, and light usually is but sparingly admitted through small
baiTed windows and diminutive skylights. Venerable-looking
jjipes full of the bright ruby-tinted potent wine of the TJpper
Douro are ranged in seemingly endless rows and in double and
triple tiers, with here and there a tramway to facilitate the
transport of the casks from one lodge to another. jJTo special
system of arrangement appears to be observed, ■wines of various
ages, quality, and value frequently being stored for convenience
under the same roof. Brawny barefooted matulas are threading
                                                                             ,   -
/r-'/il-f;   !•' '.Mftr
                                                          Ml                     11
                          n- jow.
             MKSS:-iS. G. G. SANDEMAN, SONS, S: CO.'S LODGES AT VILLA KOVA DA GAIA.
                                    riB SliUKA CONVBXT IN THIS I)I-<TANCK.
                              i 1

                                     1
                              V




                            ■ 'Vfl


                          •. "i? ■




                                     I
                                ' jjV

                          ''\hm




. .•■k f.:   .tl'   •)■
■ ■4
  4
-11' \'\<,v uv 'IIII: 101,(/!':, oi' tn   o. c. sahdi-.mam,   «, co. m vii.ia nova "a
      The Fort Wine Carpital—Villa Nova TFiwe Lodges.         119

tlieir way between the long jBles of casks, balancing cane90s, or
wooden pitcbei's, full of wine deftly on their heads, or emptying
them into rows of pipes which are being got ready for shipment.
Most of the lodges contain huge vats, in which new wines on
their arrival from the Upper Douro,after being carefully classed,
are equally carefully blended,only vintage wines from particularly
prized quintas being kept intact.
   After the late autumn raius, when the Douro has risen
sufficiently for the passage of boats of heavy burden,the recently-
vintaged -wine commences ar-riving at the Villa Nova lodges,
where, after being sampled and classed, all wine similar in
character and quality is commonly blended together. This
operation is usually effected in large vats holding from 40 to
100 pipes each, pressure pumps and flexible tubing being occa
sionally used to convey the ■wine from the pipes to the vats, and
vice versa. At times the vats are provided with revol'ving fans
worked by steam or hand labour, or with paddles kept in motion
by men stationed above, so as to secure a proper amalgamation
of the wine. At a few lodges the wines are filtered prior to
being blended, and at others the ancient system is adhered to,
and the blend made in ordinary pipes by the aid of the caneco,
a wooden pitcher holding about five and a-half gallons, equal to
the one-and-twentieth part of a pipe. However the blend
ing may take place, a small quantity of spirit is ordinarily
added during the operation. The sweet and drier varieties of
wine are usually kept distinct, and only mingled as required
when a shipping order has to be made up. The blending in the
vats having been thoroughly effected, the wine is dra-ra off into
pipes and racked at intervals of three months, until it is in a
condition for shipment, which may be in from fifteen to four-
and-twenty months' time, according to its quality. This racking
is accomplished by means of the cane90, in order that the wine,
by being dra'wn off a few gallons at a time, may come well in
contact with the air during its passage from one part of the
lodge to another—a circumstance which materially assists its
development. Every year that Port is kept in the lodge adds
 120                 In the Port Wine Country.

 xnateriaUy to its cost omng to the labour.and loss attendant on
 the frequent rackings, as weU as the loss from leakage and
 evaporation. From Port losing its colour rapidly m the wood,
 as well as much of its fulness, wines of five years old cease to he
 regarded as shipping wines, and get relegated to the category of
 what are known as lodge wines, being used to give character
 and some of the quahties of age to younger vintages. ^ When
 wines are coming forward too rapidly m the lodge, and losing
 their fiilness and colour before their time, it is the practice with
some shippers to transfer them from pipes to vats, and there to
let them remain maturing more steadily while being less subject
to waste from evaporation.
    Tlnhke sheriw. Port wine is not kept to any extent m soleras;
stiU Messrs. Sandeman and the other large Oporto shippers all
possess stocks of old wines of fine vintages,^ the character of
which they keep up by refreshing them, as it is termed, with
wines of a more youthful but equally high character. These
soleras are exclusively used for blending purposes. A narrow
roadway conducting to the river separates the piincipal,lodges
of Messrs. Sandeman from their gloomy-looking Amarella stores,
comprising a range of long low cumes,each divided into a couple
of aisles by a series of arches, and containing numerous vintage
wines of 1873 and 1875. As Port wine is believed to mature
less perfectly when subject to the influence of light, these stores
have hut few windows or skylights. Walls and timbers alike
are blackened by the constantly-evaporating alcohol, and monster
cobwebs hang in fantastic festoons before the dingy windows
and from the dark, decaying rafters. The stock of wine in these
united stores is larger than that held by any other shipper, and
in the spring of the year will probably amount to httle short of
10,000 pipes. In connection with the stores is an extensive
cooperage, a double-aisled building with open arcades, where
pipe-staves from the Baltic are split, boiled, shaped, bent, and
finally fixed together, after which the perfect casks are scalded,
gauged, seasoned with wine, branded,and painted on the outside
before they are considered fit to receive the wine designed for
             ' 1




                   ■   .




.<   i"';?
JIESSRS. MARTINEZ, G.VSSIOT, & CO.'S COOPERAGE AT VILLA NOVA DA GAIA.
                                                                        (A '21.)
      The Poii Wine Capital—Villa Nova Wine Lodges.            121

shipment. In an adjoining apartment the iron hoops for the
casks are cut, bent, and pierced by means of a handy little
machine of Biimingham manufacture.
   Some of the largest wine-lodges belonging to English ship
ping-houses are grouped half-way up the hill which rises from
the Douro at ViUa. Nova da G-aia.      To reach them we thread
the antiquated sunless street running parallel with the river,
wind round by the church, and follow a- narrow tortuous lane
bounded by moss-covered walls and overlooking a large and care
less-ordered garden. Eventually we gain a paved road, whence
a doorway on the right conducts to the premises of Mai-tinez,
Gassiot, and Co., who for two-thirds of a century have occupied
a high position in the Oporto wine trade. Crossing a rudely-
paved courtyard, where a few vines trained over a trellis partially
screen from view a lofty lodge, in which older wines are stored,
we pass the counting-house of the firm, a little low cottage with
autumn flowers climbing up its rustic porch, and enter a long
building where staves and hoops are being prepared for the
tribe of coopers at work in the small inner court below and
under the adjacent arcade. Here the construction of a Port
wine pipe in all its various stages, from the fashioning of the
individual staves to the driving in of its head, is going on. On
one side the shapened staves are being set up and temporarily
encompassed with iron hoops; elsewhere they encircle a fire
which, charring them on the inner side, renders them pliable;
close by men are hammering on the permanent iron hoops,while
others fit the heads to the finished casks prior to the edges of the
staves being bevelled and the bungholes drilled. At a neigh
bouring tank new pipes are being gauged, and if found correct
are subsequently branded with the mark of the firm and then
seasoned with wine.
   A picturesque cluster of trees overlooks the court on one side,
and facing the arcade is the principal lodge, comprising three
long cumes connected by large arches, each cume containing half-
a-dozen rows of pipes piled up in three tiers. The roofs are
suppoided by the usual blackened rafters, and but little light
122                In the PoH Wine Country.

enters througli tlie few small windows. The walls, however, are
periodically whitewashed, so that the lodge has not that dingy,
gloomy appearance distinctive ofthe typicalYilla Nova wine-store.
Some years ago one of the outer walls of this lodge gave way,
and the roof of the outside cume,several hundred feet in length,
fell in with a crash. Fortunately this happened on a Sunday,
 when none of the hands were at work,and the doors and windows
 being closed prevented the air from suddenly escaping, causing
the roof, with its network of heavy timbers and its mass of tdes,
to fall comparatively slowly, and do scarcely any damage to the
couple of thousand pipes of wine on which the heavy mass
descended.
   At Martinez, Gassiot, and Co.'s no mechanical appliances
have been introduced to economise manual labour. They never
vat their wines; and,with the exception of a small iron truck for
moving the pipes from one place to another, everything is done
as in the old days when the firm was first established and Port
wine was in high renown, counting its five and six bottle men,
like Lords Eldon, Stowell, Panmure, Dufferin, and Blayney.
These were the palmy times when Senhor Martinez, the head of
the finn, was fond of inculcating the famous Oporto maxim:—
"If it is a good vintage, sell your coat, sell the shirt off your
back, sell your skin, if you can get any one to buy it, in order to
purchase wine."
    At the time of our visit, in place of the portable pumps and
flexible tubing with which several of the more modem establish
ments are provided, we found barefooted matulas striding along
in single file with canefos filled with wine, in course of being
transferred from one pipe to another. In an open space a number
of pipes recently painted over with a mixture of wine-lees and
black earth, in accordance with the prevalent Oporto fashion,
were being got ready for shipment, and having the marks of the
house to which they were consigned deej)ly incised with awkward-
looking tools, which the workmen handled with remarkable
dexterity. The pipes are conveyed to the Douro by bullock-
carts down a remarkably steep incline communicating with the
     i
INTERIOR OF THE LODGES OF MESSRS. l^IARTINEZ, GASSIOT, Sc CO, AT VILLA NOVA DA GAIA.
                                                                                   122.)
*   ■ *
     The Port Wine Capital—Villa Nova Wine Lodges.            123

road that leads to the river, and all wine arriving from the Upper
Donro is brought into the lodge by the same difficult route.
    Every Villa Nova wine-store possesses a considerable stock
of brandy, not produced from either roots or grain, but a fine
and fragrant spirit distilled from white wine vintaged mostly in
the Upper Uouro. G-reat precautions are taken against this
spirit getting accidentallj'- ignited; and Martinez, Gassiot, and
Co. keep the bulk of theirs stored in pipes in an isolated comer
of the lodge, where under no circumstances are lights permitted,
and whence it is transferred as required into vats holding theii-
thousand gallons each.
                  liANDING POET WINE AT VILLA NOVA.




   X.—The Villa Nova Wine-Lodges—Vintage Poets.
The House of Cockburn, Smithes, and Co. Founded during the Year of
   Waterloo—The Lodges of the Firm originally built by the Alto Douro
   Wine Company—They are Blown up by the retreating Miguelites in 1833
   —Their present Appearance—The fine Vintage and Tawny Ports of the
   Firm—Original Establishment of the House of Offley, Forrester, and Co.
   in 1761—Their Lodges known as the Armazens das Aguias—Witness at
   them the Preparation of Port Wine for Shipment—Fine Vintage Wines
   from the Quinta da Boa Vista—White Ports for Russia—Silva and
   Cosens's Villa Nova Establishment—Their New Lodge the Largest at Villa
   Nova—Various Mechanical Appliances had recourse to for Economising
   Labour—The Firm's Steam Cooperage and Machinery for Cask-Making—
   Their Vintage and other Wines—The various Lodges of W.and J. Graham
   and Co.—Their numerous Blending Vats and Shafts with Fan-shaped
   Wings—Conveniences for Transferring Wine from one part of the
   Establishment to another—Animated Scene at their Cooperage—Samples
   ■of Fine Ports shown to us—Only the Best Alto Douro Wines of
   Good Years Shipped as Vintage Wines—The Treatment they Undergo
   after Arriving at Villa Nova—Mode of Blending—The Racking and
   Shipment of Vintage Ports—Vintage Years in the Alto Douro since
   1834—The Shippers of Vintage Ports—Vintage Wines Tasted at the
r




                     )i
    a
          V ■!       'M


        :'''
          i I;' 11   Si
                     #
' .1'




        },
                                       5^!n




INfliRIOR   OF THE LODGES OF MESSRS. COCKBURN, SM-ITHES, Sc CO. AT VILLA NOVA DA GAIA.^^
         The Villa Nova Wine Lodges—Vintage Ports.                     125

   Lodges of Warre and Co., Peuerheerd and Co., Taylor, Pladgato, and Co.,
   and the Viscondo Villar-Allen—The Natural Ports and other AVines of the
   latter—Prince Bismarck's Port—The Lodges and AVines of Hunt, Koope,
   Teage, and Co., A''anzeller and Co., and Mackenzie, Driscoll, and Co.—The
   Oporto Steam Cooperage Company and their Establishment.

   The sliipments of Port wine to England,wliich had continued
increasing up to the time of the great Continental war,afterwai'ds
experienced considerable fluctuations, and at the establishment of
peace seem to have fallen from an average of upwards of 40,000
pipes to considerably less than 30,000 per annum. It was about
this time that several existing large firms first established them
selves at Oporto. The house of Cockbum, Smithes, and Co.,
for instance, Avhich for a quarter of a centuiy has held the rank
of second largest shijopers of Port wine, was founded dui-ing the
year of Waterloo. The compact and extensive lodges of this
firm, comprising sixteen long, broad, and lofty cumes, parallel
■with and adjoining each other, are without a rival at Villa Nova.
There is a certain architectural pretension about their exterior
observable in no other stores, dwarfed columns surmounted by
urns of fanciful design rising up between each succeeding
pointed gable. Originally built by the famous Alto Douro
Wine Company, in 1833 they were mined and then set on fire
by the Miguelite army on its retreat from Villa Nova at the
raising of the siege of Oporto, to prevent the vast stock of wine
■which they contained falling into the hands of their opponents.
The Portuenses, who knew nothing of the circumstance of the
lodges having been previously mined, were suddenly startled by a
formidable explosion which shook Villa Nova to its foundations.
The roofs of the buildings were blo'wn into the air, but the
solid walls sufficiently withstood the shock to enable the lodges
to be restored, and after an interval of several years they came
into the possession of the present occupiers.
   Pacing the entrance to Martinez,Gassiot, and Co.'s is a narrow
lane conducting to the premises of Cockburn, Smithes, and Co.
 On our way thither we pass a string of bullock-carts conveying
pipes of 'wine down to the Douro for shipment. Entering an
 126                In the Port Wine Country.

 umbrageous garden-court, bounded on two sides by tbe count
 ing-bouse of tbe firm and tbe residence of one of tbe i^art-
 ners, we descend a flight of steps and pass tbrougb tbe sample
 and tasting rooms into tbe lodges. Eacb of tbese is divided into
 two aisles by stone arcbes, and tbe only variation from tbe serried
 files of ancient-looking casks, ranged in unbroken rows and
 several tiers down tbe lengtby galleries, are some buge gaily-
 painted blending-vats, wbicb bere and tbere rise out of tbeir
 midst. We branch off to tbe extensive coojperage, detached in a
 measure from tbe stores themselves and divided into three sec
tions, in one of wbicb staves are being prepared of tbe requisite
length and thickness, in another shipping pipes are in course of
construction, while tbe gauging, steaming, and branding of tbe
finished pipes are going on in tbe third. Retracing our steps,
we continue our tour tbrougb tbe lodges until near tbe central
one, when tbe ground descends, and we notice balf-a-dozen
large vats in wbicb new wines are effectually blended by tbe aid
of screw-fans worked by men stationed above. Adjoining are
tbe tonels in wbicb all tbe brandy is kept together,isolated as far
as practicable from tbe rest of tbe stock. At tbe time of our
visit wines of tbe present vintage were being received in tbe
lodge, and samples of them were shown to us, together -with
several remarkably fine vintage wines of 1872-73, and '75, and
certain rare tawny Ports of choice flavour wbicb dated back for
nearly two-thirds of a century.
   Beyond tbe lodges is a narrow terrace where shipping casks
 were being painted tbe orthodox slate colour, and bullock-carts
 were being laden with pipes of wine intended for shipment.
'Their drivers, stalwart, bare-legged, bejewelled Minbo peasant-
women, pricked tbe animals'flanks with tbeir goads,encouraged
them with tbeir shouts, or tugged away at tbeir quaintly-caiwed
yokes, yet with all this tbe stolid beasts moved leisurely forward
at tbeir own pace over tbe ill-paved winding road wbicb leads
down to tbe swift-flowing river.
   Of tbe existing Oporto bouses boasting a connection of more
than a century with Port wine, Offley, Pornester, and Co. rank
                                               ii        mm
THE LODGES OE MESSRS. OEFLEY, FORRESTER, S: CO. AT VILLiL KOVA DA GAIA.
              \%




               \v



'.aitjL J±.
    'v' i:
■   »




    ', i-
'I   / ; ".Ni,
         The VUla Nova Wine Lodges—Vintage Ports.             127

the highest. Established in the year 1761, and vineyard pro
prietors as well as large shippers, they monopolise most of the
trade in the higher class white Ports with Russia. Baron For
rester, whose name is indissolubly connected with the Alto
 Douro and its wines, and whose lamented death at the Cachao de
 Valleira we have alluded to, was a member of this firm. Their
lodges,known as the Armazens das Aguias,from the circumstance
of the gables being surmounted by sculptui-ed eagles with
crowned heads, are reached by a narrow winding granite-paved
road, shut in by high walls, overgrown with moss and ivy. A
somewhat pretentious portal conducts uj) a steep incUne to a
spacious courtyard, the structures surroimding which are tinted,
in Portuguese fashion, a lively salmon colour. A trellis of vines
casts flickering shadows around, and beyond are the two principal
lodges, with a small belfry rising up in the centre of their gabled
fagade. Adjoining is a third lodge, and right and left are the
cooperage and carpenter's shop. At Messrs. Offley, Forrester,
and Co.'s we witnessed the process of preparing Port wine for
shipment. Ranged against the wall of the shipping lodge were
a score or so of newly-painted pipes, into which wines of varying
character and quality were being poured through small tub-
shaped funnels out of the customary cane90s, which a string of
matulas kept constantly arriving with. The basis of an ordinary
shipment is usually a wine of a year or two old rendered sweeter
or drier, as may be required, by the admixture of either a fruity
or fully-fermented wine, and improved in flavour by a dash of
old wine of fine quality. The intended shipment consisted of a
blend of three varieties, and as successive almudes were emptied
into the various pipes they were duly checked off on a black
board on which the precise proportions of the blend were indi
cated. The brandy was added by the aid ofa small metal can,filled
from a larger vessel holding nearly a couple of quarts,and having
a scale indicated inside by means of a number of small wooden,
pegs. When the pipes were filled to the bunghole the latter
was closed with a wooden plug,and the casks had their shipping
marks cut deeply into them. All being ready they were rolled
128               In the Port Wine Country.

one by one to tbe lodge doorway, and boisted on to bulloclc-
cai*ts wbicb descended witb tbem to tbe river, wbere lighters
were in readiness to convey tbem to tbe steamer lying moored
off tbe Oporto Custom-bouse.
    At tbe lodges of Offley, Forrester,and Co. we tasted some fine
full-bodied but exceedingly mellow vintage wines of tbe years
1870 to 1875, from tbe renowned Quinta da Boa Vista. A
sample of 1866, regarded as one of tbe worst years among Port
wine vintages, was also sbo"svn to us, and proved exceedingly
ligbt and refined in flavour,having, moreover,a beautiful bouquet.
Tbe white Ports, although of fine quaUty, were exceedingly
sweet and remarkably pale in colour, in accordance witb tbe
requirements of Russian consumers, for whom these wines are
almost exclusively prepared.
   Tbe larger Port wine bouses are, as a rule, very conservative
in their ideas, and only two of tbem profit to any extent by
mechanical appliances to effect a saving of manual labour in
their lodges. These are Messrs. Silva and Cosens, and W. and
J. Graham and Co. Tbe premises of tbe former adjoin those of
Cockburn, Smithes, and Co., and are entered under an archway
conducting to an open terrace whence a magnificent view of
Oporto is obtained beyond tbe long red-tiled roofs of tbe lodges of
VilLa Nova. To tbe right of this terrace are a couple of lofty and
capacious lodges, wbere tbe firm store their younger wines, and
adjoining is a recently-erected structure, designed by Mr.Rouse,
tbe English engineer resident at Oporto, who superintended tbe
erection of Senbor Souza's adega at Celleir6s. This structure,
said to be tbe largest single lodge in Villa Nova,is divided into
four aisles by slender iron columns wbicb sustain tbe immense
roof of open woodwork covered witb slate, ligbt being admitted
abundantly by means of windjws on three sides. Tbe contrast
between this ligbt and airy structure and tbe typical close and
gloomy ViUa Nova lodge is a striking one. In this model
lodge, as throughout Messrs. Silva and Cosens's establishment,
tramways run in various directions for tbe readier transit of
casks, and just outside tbe building is a reservoir, into wbicb
                                                                         %
GENERAL VIEW OE THE LODGES OF MESSRS. SiL^'A AND COSENS AT VILLA NOVA DA GAIA.
                                                                             (/. i»8.)
          -MVLIJi^




      Y
      \>M




'■»
               '' 1




XV,


      .\\J''
                                                                              1




INTERIOR OF THE NEW LODGE OF MESSRS. SILVA AND COSENS AT VILLA NOVA DA GALL
           The Villa Nova Wine Lodges—Vintage Ports.            129

 new wine on its arrival is poured, thence to be conveyed by
 means of a steam-pump into tbe numerous large vats ranged
 down one of tbe aisles. In front of tbe lodge is a steam
■cooperage, wbere a sixteen-borse engine sets in motion saws
 wbicb divide tbe planks into tbree, reduce tbe staves to tbeir
proper length, give to tbe beads of tbe casks tbeir circular form,
and neatly bevel tbeir edges. There are also cutting machines,
certain parts of wbicb perform tbeir 3,000 revolutions a minute,
wbicb, after rougb-sbaping tbe staves, finish them off and bevel
tbeir joints, and finally give them tbeir convex and concave
form. Here, too, the rougb-sbaped staves are steamed in a tank
to extract all colouring matter and fiavour from tbe wood, tbe
completed pipes being also sbgbtly steamed in order to detect
any imperfections in tbem. A crane is employed for letting
down tbe casks to a long store, situated on a lower level, where
they undergo tbe requisite seasoning with wine. In accordance,
however, with tbe prevailing practice, many of tbe pipes are sent
up tbe Douro without being previously seasoned to bring down
tbe new wine.       bfewly-vintaged wine may be placed with
impunity in perfectly new casks, but not so tbe older growths,
tbe flavour of wbicb would be seriously impaired if tbe pipe
contained even a single new stave. Seasoned pipes intended
for tbe shipment of wine are invariably pulled to pieces and
made up again before being used.
    Silva and Cosens store tbeir finest wines, with those of Messrs.
Dow, whose business they bad acquired shortly before our visit,
in some old-fashioned lodges with blackened walls and pointed
roofs, supported by heavy, untrimmed chestnut beams. A variety
of wines of both firms were here shown to us, including several
sunerior vintage growths, of wbicb those of Messrs. Dow
proved dry and full of flavour, and tbe others rich and more or
less aromatic. Of tbe shipping wines we tasted some were full,
fruity, and deep-coloured, others being bgbt of body and tawny
in tint, while tbe fine old wines, kept up principally on tbe solera
system, and used exclusively for imparting character to younger
growths, exhibited a sub-pungency such as sherry and madeira
130                In the Fort Wine Country.

acquire with considerable age. The white Ports intended for
the Russian market had a liqueur-like flayotu', and a soujpgon of
moscatel in their bouquet, arising from a slight admixtm-e of
moscatel grapes in the lagar.
    In winding along one of the steep narrow lanes which con
duct to the majority of the Villa Nova wine-lodges we come
upon a little ornate chapel and an adjacent antique mansion—
screened by a row of camelias just bursting into bloond—in
that inartistic rococo style of architecture so prevalent through
out Portugal. The native owner of this residence is the
lucky proprietor of one-fourth of the soil of Villa Nova, and
counts numerous English shipping firms among his tenants.
Prom the lane one overlooks a sloping quinta planted with
vines trained along trellises, and with fruit and other trees.
Next to the chapel are the spacious lodges of Messrs. W.and J-
Graham, on the open door of which one notices the customary
little tablet inscribed"Propriedade Ingleza," with its diminu
tive representation of the TJnion Jack in one corner. Tablets of
this description are affixed to the entrances of most of the lodges
belonging to English firms, their introduction dating from the
epoch of the civil war, when the shippers were anxious to'
preserve their establishments from the fate which befeU the
lodges of the Alto Douro Wine Company. Proceeding up a
paved courtyard we find ourselves on the threshold of Messrs.
W.and J. Graham's stores, as a sturdy bare-legged peasant-girl,
assisted by a couple of matulas, is rolling a pipe of wine, just
brought up by her in a bullock-cart, into one of the lodges.
These latter comprise three long structures, divided by a series
of arches; also a building termed the tonel-house erected on a
lower level, and what is known as the custom-house lodge,
consisting of ten cumes, intersected by heavy stone i^illars
and massive arches.      Most of the old wines are stored in
separate lodges, some short distance from the principal estab
lishment. The firm have no fewer than seventeen large vats
for blending their wines, six of these being stationed in tlie
central lodge, adjoining a small reservoir lined with glazed
       ^7?«aK<t '1 111 R-1'
1
                                                     mysmfm
                      /ft.
    rilE STEAM COOPERAGE OP ]\IESSRS. SILVA AND COSENS AT \TLLA NOVA DA GAIA.
                                                                                fA 'JO.)
                         ■    -f


                             • '4   "          ■' ' ^ )s
                                                ■ 'i4

                                                 ■     J


                                                     wl
                                                     ' w




t

                                                          4;,'
. JW'w'j.'. A!'' '»*«-                  ..ji           ,1!''
             ■




        ;,: f




                 -.r




         ■        V
             '.i




■   ■




                 J
THE LODGES OF MESSRS."W. AND J. GRAHAil & CO. AT VILLA NOVA DA GAIA.
           The Yilla Nova Wine Lodges—Yintage Foris.            131

  tiles, and a steam pump, by the aid of which the wine is con
  veyed through tubes to and from the pipes and vats in any part
  of the establishment. Beneath the principal lodge are some
  ancient vaults with an almost total absence of light and venti
  lation, where various rare old wines are stored. In the adjoining
  tonel-house, reached down a steep incline, seven additional large
  vats are ranged in a row,each ofthem being provided with a vertical
  shaft with fan-shaped wings, and a screw propeller worked by a
 line shaft aflSxed to the opposite wall, and by the action of which
 the thorough amalgamation of the wine is secured. Connected
 mth the line shaft is a small pump, enabling the blended wine
 to be readily transferi-ed from the vats to the pipes in any one
 of the lodges. The superfluous steam fi'om the boiler is used
 for steaming new casks in a neighbouring old-fashioned cooper
 age, where as many as eighty hands are employed,and the usual
 animated scene presents itself. Men in red and blue Phrygian
 caps, check shirts, and either tattered or elaborately-patched
 velveteen nether-garments, are splitting staves with wonderful
precision with their primitive hatchets, or trimming them to
shape on their quaint wooden horses; are fashioning heads or
drilling bungholes, setting up casks or taking them to pieces,
hammers and mallets keeping up a continuous deafening sound
as the heads or hoops are being driven on and fastened to the
finished pipes. At Messrs. W. and J. Graham's lodges a variety
of wines were shown to us,including young and fi-uity high class
vintage wines, with softer, drier, and more matured growths, as
well as fine, thin, tawny ports, which had mellowed during half-
a-century in the wood. Notable among the latter was a grand
■wine of the year 1815, remarkable yet refined in flavour and
exhaling a soft etherous bouquet, and scarcely darker in colour
than ordinary golden sherry.
   When the vintage in the Tipper Douro proves an unusually
fine one, it is the practice to ship the pick of the "wine as a
vintage wine—that is, without the admixture of wines of other
years. In every quinta there are certain favourable situations
where the grapes ripen more perfectly than in others ; and in
132               In the Fort Wine Country.

what are called vintage years these grapes are gathered and
pressed by themselves, the mosto being drawn off into separate
tonels. Early in the year the wine is racted and sent down the
Douro, and on its arrival at the lodges of Villa Nova the produce
-of the various quintas is blended together, excepting in rare
instances, when the wine of some quinta of renown is kept
intact. Now-a-days the largest shippers blend their vinta^
wines, as a rule, in capacious vats ; although some few among
them, and aU of the smaller shippers, cling to the old-fashioned
method of blending the wine in pipes, retaining their faith in




 the beneficial influence of the air upon it while it is being trans
 ferred by means of the cane90 from one set of pipes to another.
 There is a saying in allusion to the practice of the men passing
   Jfifv'fi
   'liiiV'
ixrERIOR OF THF LODGES OF MESSRS. W. A.VD J. GRAHAM & CO. AT VILLA NOV^-V.OA G.AIA.
                                                                                CA- *J«-)
                                                     (1 I

                                                      , I




                   ^                 It,';    < .
                  • .                    v!. ,v
                   i .',■>.'■ ■ " ,'f'■ ■■'. ' .V,
             ■ 4 - ' ♦•i •■              ''• ■.


'    -A- '




    Vtvv                                                '-W

        <      1 ' .-V
                                                            ( ■


                                                       '•V




                                                        ;i<

                                                       .-y
                                                     •i Mil.

                                                            s



                                                        (
          Tlie Tilla Nova Wine Lodges—Vintage Povts.         133^

 hither and thither through the stores with cane903 of wine
 balanced on their heads,to the effect that the best Port is made-
on the heads of the matulas. From the circumstance of the
grapes having thoroughly ripened, these vintage wines are richer
and fuller in flavour and stouter in body than the wines of
ordinary years, and consequently require to be hept longer in
the lodge, and to be very frequently racked before they can be
shipped. These raclrings commonly take place at intervals of
three months, the condition of the wine being the guide for the
precise time when they should be effected; and at each racking
a new blending of the wine is invariably made. A couple of
years after the vintage the shipping of the wine commences,
and continues for another two years or a little longer, by which
time the wine loses the bloom of its rich purple hue, and shows
indications of becoming tawny. When it has reached this stage
it can only be shipped after having been refreshed, as it is
called, with a young wine possessed of plenty of colour. With
vintage Ports the grand object is to get them into bottle while
they retain their richness of colour and fulness of body; in which
case they require a number of years, varying according to the
character of the vintage, before they are fit for consumption.
If kept in the lodge until they are four or five years old, they
come forward far more quickly in bottle than when shipped at
the end of their second year. During the last century it was
the practice to ship selected wines of every year as vintage
wines, but now only the wines of the best years are ranked in
that category. Since the famous year of 1834 there have been
in the Upper Douro sixteen years classed as vintage years—
namely,'36,'40,'42,'44,'47,'50,'51,'53,'58,'61,'63, '67,'68,
'70, '72-3, and '75, but out of these sixteen there were only
four grand years,'40, '47, '63, and '70, with two others which
almost deserved being thus classed—namely, '42 and '68:
showing that on an average not more than one really grand
vintage in the Upper Douro can be reckoned upon in each
decade.
   All the Oporto houses,from Messrs. Gr. Gr. Sandeman and Sons
134                 In the PoH Wine Country.

downwards,sliip mintage wines,and witli certain firms these wines
form leading shipments. The house of Croft and Co., whose
bright yellow-tinted lodges are in the rear of those of Messrs.
Sandeman, can reckon more than a century of celebrity in this
direction; and Warre and Co., who are likewise noted for
their vintage Ports, date back almost to an equally remote
period. In the lodges of the last-mentioned firm we were
shown a grand wine of 1870, which still retained remarkable
depth of colour and body, a fine dry wine of 1872, and several
specimens of the vintages of 1873 and 1875, some rich and
fall-bodied, others dry and refined in flavour, but aU of high
character. We tasted here, too, some 1834 Port, which had lost
alike colour and substance in the wood, but yet retained a fine
high flavour,and was remarkable for a peculiar bouquet. Some of
this wine had been sold a few years back at the rate of.£135 the
pipe. The house ofKopke and Co.,established at Oporto in 1808,is
well known for its vintage wines from the quinta of Eoriz,just
as that of Taylor, Pladgate, and.Co. is noted for its wines from
the famous Quinta da Eoeda. Of the numerous vintage Ports
we tasted, however, none were more interesting than the collec
tion shown to us at the lodges of Messrs. Peuerheerd and Co.
This firm keeps certain of its vintage wines from particular
quintas intact; and here we tasted a splendid wine of 1870 from
the Quinta do Eoncao,remarkable for its great delicacy and fine
perfume; also a sample of 1873 from the same quinta, dry and
full of flavour; and some beautiful wines of 1875 from the
Quintas Bom Eetiro and Zimbro. We were further shown some
natural Ports made without any addition of spirit, vintage 1875
being beautifully fresh-tasting, 1873 emitting a strong bouquet,
while 1872 was a well-rounded wine of singularly refined flavour.
The wine of 1871 had been fermented in a cuve, after the Mddoc
fashion,instead of the stone lagar, and,although somewhat thin,
had a splendid colour and a very fine bouquet. Among the
archaic curiosities of the lodge was some wine marked palmeiro,
nearly half a century old, slightly tawny, but of a rich, soft,
delicate flavour,and also an antique Malmsey of great character.
        The Villa Nova Wine Lodges—Vintage Ports,           135

   At Messrs, Taylor, Madgate, and Co.'s lodges we went
througli an interesting scale of liigh-class vintage wines from,
the well-known Quinta da Eoeda, whence Mr. Fladgate, the
principal member of the firm, derives his title. All of the wines
shown to us were of a remarkably refined character and had a very
pronounced bouquet, the majority of them being soft and some
what luscious, and the few drier varieties having a similar
velvety roundness. Remembering the advantageous situation
enjoyed by the Quinta da Roeda, we were folly prepared for the
fine quality of these wines, the especial bouquet distinguishing
which is supposed to be due to the prevalence in the qninta
of the gum cistus, a plant which grows in great abimdance
in particular districts of the Alto Douro. At the lodges of
the Visconde ViUar-Allen (M. J. Valente-Allen), at the farther
end of Villa Nova, and almost immediately opposite the Oporto
Custom-house, we were shown a variety of vintage wines from
the celebrated Quinta do Noval,inclu^g a rich fruity wine of
1876, which reqtdred being in bottle fully ten years to attain a
fine condition ; a perfectly dry wine of the same year, already of
excellent flavour; and samples of vintage 1873, of the two
extremes of richness and dryness, both equally distinguished by
that high character for which the wines of this quinta are re
markable. We tasted, moreover, some natural Ports of the
year 1877 from Noval and Covelhinos — sound, clean, pro
mising wines—but of course too youthful even to indicate the
flavour which a few years are likely to develop in them; as
well as a perfectly-fermented pleasant, fresh-tasting white Port
from the rabo de ovelha (sheep's-tail) grape, made without any
added alcohol, and, like the red wines, indicating less than
23 degrees of proof spirit. Some Malmsey of a pale golden
colour, with a pronounced flavour and a powerful bouquet, was
hkewise shown to us, together with a luscious and delicate
Moscatel vintaged at Sao Christovao. Both these wines are
largely exported in bottles to the Brazils, and would be almost
certain to become popular as ladies' wines if introduced into
England. In a small, dimly-lighted store, containing some
136               In the Port Wine Country.

fourteen tonels, tolding their ten or twelve pipes of wine each,
we were shown a solera, the original foundation of which dates
from the year 1827. This wine is known in the lodge as the
Bismarck Port, from the circumstance of several pipes of it
being supplied regularly every year to the Prince Chancellor,
for his own special drinking, through the German Consul at
Oporto. Prince Bismarck has quite a Johnsonian reverence for
Port, and the wine to which he gives the preference proved to
 be of a light, tawny tint, possessing considerable body for its
 age, combined with great flavour and a rich perfume.
    The oldest existing house in the Port wine trade is that of
Hunt, Roope, Teage, and Co., who date back to the first half of
the last century. Port wine forms, however, only a branch of
their business, they being the largest importers into Portugal of
dried codflsh, an article of almost universal consumption among
the Portuguese. Their lodges at Villa Nova, although ancient,
are very compact,and the long double tiers of pipes have a more
venerable appearance than any we encountered elsewhere. The
wines shown to us were generally of a superior class, com
prising several vintage growths remarkable for'their pure high
flavour and depth of colour, with tawny wines retaining much
of the aromatic richness which had distinguished them in
youth.
   Another old Oporto house is that of VanzeUer and Co.,
whose capacious and well-constructed lodges are situated within
a few yards of the Houro,in close proximity to one of the prin
cipal landing and shipping stages of Villa Nova. They comprise
two distinct sets of stores,separated from each other by a nan-ow
roadway, and having a cooperage installed in the rear. One
striking feature about them is their"extremely cleanly and orderly
appearance. The samples of vintage wines here shown to us
were varied in character and of fine quality, the older ones being
soft and liqueur-like, others dry and beautifully round, while
the more youthful qualities were generally rich and often almost
luscious. We also tasted some admirable tawny wines, mostly
concentrated and powerful in flavour, although one or two
         Tlie Villa Nova Wine Lodges—Vintage Ports.         137"

among them had much of the lightness and delicacy of a wine
vintaged from white grapes.
   The lodges of Mackenzie, DriscoU, and Co. are situated at
the farther end of the long steep paved Eua das Freiras,leading
from the Douro to the summit of the hill of Villa hTova. They
are entered through a large doorway and up a slight incline
leading into a comdyard, where a crowd of coopers are briskly
at work making new pipes and rearranging old ones. The lodges
comprise a couple of long and lofty cumes, each with its four
rows of pipes frequently arranged in triple tiers. Here we went
through a series of fine-flavoured vintage wines and dry and rich
shipping wines, as well as some luscious white Ports and the
usual venerable curiosities, dating back to the early part of the
century, of which all the leading Oporto houses are certain to
possess their quota. Mackenzie, Driscoll, and Co. own two
other lodges in the Eua Cordas, near to the Douro,in which
they store wines of various classes of all the more recent,
vintages.
   There are a few other Port wine shippers doing a consider
able business whose lodges I had not an opportunity of visiting,
notably Messrs. Clode and Baker, T. Gr. Sandeman, Smith and
Woodhouse, &c.      Those which I have described, however,,
furnish a sufficiently complete idea of the Villa Nova wine-
stores, with their 150,000 pipes of Port of varying age and
character, valued at something like .£4,000,000 sterling.
   Before I quitted Oporto I made a point of visiting the
Tanoaria a Vapor,or Steam Cooperage,recently established by an
English company at Villa Hova da Gaia. Crossing the river by the
suspension-bridge, nearly opposite the precipitous Eua Hova de
Sao Joao, and passing under the shadow of the commanding
Serra convent—where the British batteries were installed when
Wellington effected his daring passage of the Douro—one
mounts a well-paved road leading to the Villa Hova railway
station, midway between which and the river stands the
establishment in question. The premises were only partially
completed at the time of our visit, and comprised a large square
138               In the Port Wine Country.
                                                                1
central building,roofed witb glass and galvanised iron,containing
tbe engine, boilers, and macbine-rooms, flanked on either side
by the trussing and rearing sheds, and having at the back a
large finishing shed, in which 300 coopers can conveniently
work. The entire estabhshment was planned in England by
Messrs. Allan Eansome and Co., of Chelsea, the well-known
makers of cooperage and wood-working machinery, in con
junction with Mr. T. Smith, engineering director to the com
pany, Messrs. Bass and Co., of Burton-on-Trent, who were
among the first to adopt the system of making casks by
steam, having also famished many valuable hints to the pro
jectors.
   On entering the machine-room the first machines that strike
the eye are the cross-cut saw for sawing staves to their proper
lengths, and the six large band saws for cutting the wood to the
requisite thickness, and by means of which 1,800 logs can be
transformed into three times that number of pipe-staves during
the day. The freshly-cut staves are then either thorouo-hly
tanked in hot water for forty-eight hours, or submitted to a
new process, known only to the company, which by rendering
the resin and tannin of the wood insoluble effects the same
result as tanking in less than an hom. When dry the staves
are brought back to the shop and passed through backing
hollovring, and jointing machines, the latter of which—a special
feature of the establishment—can joint from 5,000 to ? 000
staves a day. These staves are then ready to be converted into
casks, and are"trussed" or closed by hydrauhc pressure in a few
seconds, whereas two men would certainly require an hour to
accomplish the operation by manual labour.
   There is a special set of machines for making the cask-heads
which turn out 150 pairs per diem. These are afterwards adjusted
in the finishing-shed where the casks pass through the chimiuf
and crozing machines, and are hooped, scraped, gauged and
stored ready for delivery. Before leaving the establishment each
 cask is carefully tested by steaming to detect any leakage or
•defective staves. The cooperage, which when we visited it
                                                              i
THE MACHtliE-HOOM OF THE OPORTO STEAM COOPERAGE COMPANY AT VILLA NOVA DA GAIA.
                                                                          (A >jS.)
>• ''^1
                  The VUla Nova Wine Lodges—Vintage Ports.         139


       "was capable of tuming out 140 pipes, or 180 bogsbeads, or 240
       quarter-casks per day, will eventually be able to fumisb double
       tbat number witbin tbe same period. Tbe wbole of tbe machi
       nery is driven by two horizontal engines, each of thirty nominal
       horse-power, with boilers on Galloway's principle.
           Many of the larger wine-shippers are shareholders in the
       undertaking, and hope by its aid to obtain good and strong
       casks without the labour aud trouble of keeping up expensive
       cooperages of their own. The price at which the company can
       deliver casks will very likely not be under what the shippers can
       produce them at in their own cooperages,but Mr. A.W.Tait,the
       managing director, claims that the company's special system of
       tanking will render it unnecessary in the future to season
       the casks with wine, which of itself will be a considerable
       economy.




'tfi. tfiyi',.
                                                       ri'



                                                             fi fi fi iS a ;9
                                                             SflA £9
                                                             BAB a A <fi




     LIGHTEB CONYEYING PIPES OP POET TO THE ENGLISH STEAMEE.



   XI. Eldeebeeeies and Logwood—G-eneeal Eemaeks
                         ABOUT Poet Wine.
Lord Lytton's Beckless Assertions regarding Port Wine Confuted Elder
    berries not Used for Dyeing the Wine—Geropiga often Mixed with Low-
    class Ports—Logwood incapable of Deepening the Colour of Port Wine—
    The amount of Spirit usually Added to Port—High Alcoholic Strength
    ■which the Alto Douro Wines will naturally develop—Evaporation of the
    watery parts of Wine in warm, dry Climates—^Alto Douro Wine made
    without Adventitious Spirit—Wine of this character not likely to super
    sede Port of the established type—Frequent changes of Fashion in the
    style of Port Wine—Fine Old Ta'wny Ports and their Cheaper Substitutes
    —Laying down Port Wine—Mr. T. G. Shaw's suggestions for bringing it
    forward rapidly in Bottle—Burrow's patent " Slider" Wine-bins.

    Some dozen years ago the present Governor-General of
India, at that tlBie Secretary of Legation at Lisbon, sent a thrill
through the frames of habitual drinkers of Port wine by stating
in an official report that" all Port wine intended for the Enghsh
     Elderberries and Logwood,—GenercCL remarJcs ahout Port. 141

 market was composed almost quite as muck of elderberries as
 grapes." This startling assertion was afterwards qualified, the
.author explaining that his allusion only applied to the deepening
of the colour of the wine with extract from the skins of dried elder
berries, and not to any admixture of elderberry juice with the
wine itself. Lord Lytton had, moreover, afiBrmed that the Paiz
Vinhateiro of the Alto Douro abounded with elder-trees. Both
statements were inaccurate at the time, and are equally inaccu
rate to-day. With regard to the elder-trees,I may remark that
during daily rides through the Upper Douro I was constantly
on the look-out for them; but that above the Rio Corgo,whence
the finest Port wine comes,I failed to observe even a single
one. I do not say that none exist; but they must be exceedingly
rare to have escaped my notice. That elder-trees are prevalent
lower down the Douro,in the neighbom-hood of Regoa, is well
known, as also that the berries in a dried form are, or were,
 regularly exported in large quantities to Prance and Spain,
 presumably for colouring wine. Several years before the ex
 portation of them to France commenced the Agricultural Council
•of the Pyrenees Orientales had called the attention of the French
Minister of Commerce to the fact that wines imported into
France from Spain were artificially coloured with elderberry
■extract.
    The principal shippers of Port wine to England either own
 or rent quintas in the Alto Douro, or, what is equivalent,
-contract to purchase their produce in the form of wine. During
 the time of the vintage they or their representatives are every
day engaged in riding about from one vineyard to another for
the purpose of seeing that the vintage is properly made, that
green or damaged grapes do not get into the lagares, that the
pressing and fermentation take place under favourable condi
tions, that brandy from the juice of the grape alone, which they
take care themselves to supply, shall be added only at such times
-and in such quantities as they shall approve of. This Alto
Douro brandy Baron Forrester—an authority whom eveiy one
now-a-days accepts—^preferred when old to the best cognac he
 142                In the Fort Wine Country.

 was acquainted witli. I firmly believe that none of the wine
 made under the foregoing conditions is dyed with colouring
 matter obtained from the skins of elderberries. "Were the latter
 used,the wine,instead of being of a rich crimson colour, vaiyiug
 in depth according to the degree of ripeness of the grapes,
 would be of a heavy purple tint. It is only after being drawn off
 into large tonels, and when its second fermentation has ceased
 through the cold weather setting in, that it acquires the rich
 purple hue common to young Port wine. It is quite possible
 that some small farmers deepen the colour of their wine in bad
years—in good years it has ample colour of its own—^by steeping
in it a bag filled with dried elderberries; but I do not believe they
find a market for their produce among any one of the respect
able firms who ship nineteen-twentieths of the Port wine con
sumed in England,although dyeing wine with elderberry extract
is quite a harmless proceeding compared to dyeing it with
poisonous fuchsine.
    In the same way that sherries requiring to be prematurely
shipped have colour and character imparted to them by vino de
color and softness and roundness by an admixture of vino dulce,
so are certain Port wines indebted for a portion of their colour
and fruitiness to the addition of what is known as geropiga,
composed generally of two-thirds of uufermented grape juice
and of one-third of spirit, or of partially-fermented mosto and
spirit, occasionally deepened in colour by steeping the skins of
dried elderberries in it. Of course, high-class Ports are never
made by these or similar means. Wines thus manipulated are
scarcely to be commended; stiU they are not deleterious in the
usual sense of the term—not a tithe as hurtful as the spirits
commonly sold in public-houses or any one of the scores of
liqueurs in common use.
   It has been often asserted that logwood is used to impart
colouring matter to Port wine; and the authors of a bulky
Treatise upon Wine, both of whom profess to be scientific men,
endorsed this preposterous assertion with their authority. One
of them, however, subsequently made a public recantation.
     Elderberries and Logwood—General remarks about Fort. 143

 admitting that lie had been the means of promulgatmg"a great
 and deplorable error; as it was quite impossible to dye wine of
 any kind with logwood, for the colour of logwood is purple only
 in alkaline solution, and not in acid, in which it is only tawny."
 And he wound up by saying that "the sooner we dismiss these
 prejudices and errors regarding elderberry and logwood in Port
 wine the better." When scientific men- are found carelessly
 making assertions of this nature it is scarcely to be wondered
that the general public should lend a ready ear to the many
extravagant statements afloat with reference to the sophistication
of wines.
    That Port wine has spirit put into it to conserve a portion of
its saccharine when the grapes are not over-ripe, and also to
keep down ulterior fermentation when these have ripened in
excess, is commonly known. Wine charged with fermentative
elements in the form of saccharine is always likely to become
troubled when disturbed ; and hence Port wine usually receives
a small additional quantity of spirit whenever it is racked and
previous to its being shipped. The amount of spirit added
varies according to the character of the vintage and the judg
ment of the shipper, who, when left to himself, puts in only as
much as he considers absolutely necessary to render the wine
safe. It is not his interest to add spirit in excess, as its cost is
much greater than that of the best wine; besides which the
wine shipped with the smallest amount of adventitious spirit
is certainly the wine to be preferred. Mr. M. J. Elhs, of the
firm of W.and J. Graham and Co., who had ample opportunities
for arriving at a correct conclusion, has asserted that in years
when the grapes have thoroughly rij)ened, perfectly-fermented
Alto Douro wine will develop 32 degrees of proof spirit, and
when made exclusively, from the bastardo grape as many as
34 degrees. It appears, moreover, from the report made by
Mr. Bernard, of Her Majesty's Customs, of his inquiry into the
strength of the Spanish and Portuguese wines, that a wine vin-
taged by Mr.Pladgate in 1860 in the Quinta da Eoiida and made
in the first instance without any addition of spirit, and which had
144                In the Port Wine Country.

subsequently bad added to it merely 10 per cent, of wine fortified,
in tbe usual manner, indicated as many as 34 degrees wlieii
tested rather more than twelve months afterwards.
    The above are exceedingly high figui-es; still I am satisfied,
from what I saw during my sojourn at Jerez, that sherries
which have had merely 1 or 2 per cent, of spirit added to
them will in course of time indicate 34 degrees. People accus
tomed to the moist climate of England do not realise the fact
that in these drier latitudes wines are rapidly deprived of their
aqueous element, and that it is no unusual thing for a com
pletely-fermented wine, which will indicate only 26 degrees
when young, to mark 30 degrees in the course of a fe-^ years
simply by the evaporation of its watery parts. It is this circum
stance which renders the luniting of the one shilling duty to
wines of 26 degrees of proof spirit so utterly unfair to the
higher-class growths of the Peninsula.
   The late Baron Forrester was one of the first to advocate and
occupy himself with the manufacture of Alto Douro wine without
any adventitious spirit, and since his time many growers and
shippers have satisfied themselves that it is quite possible to
make wine of this description and to ship it without fear of
after-consequences, but then it is no longer Port wine. Having
■consumed all its natural sugar by means of its more perfect
fermentation, it has none of the rich fruity flavour' of the
younger vintage wines, nor the refined liqueur-like character of
the older growths to which Port 'wine drinkera have been ac
customed, and they naturally refuse to accept it as a substitute
for their favourite beverage. We ha,ve tasted at difierent times
numerous wines of the above description made from the best
varieties of grapes, and on the manufacture of which unusual
■care and attention had been bestowed. Undoubtedly they were
all wines of some character; still they were not to be compared,
either as regards flavour or bouquet, with the highest growths
of the Medoc or the Cote d'Or, simply because the Douro vines,
with all their advantages of soil, climate, and aspect, are not
equal to the carbenet and the cruchinet rouge of the Gironde
                                                                                      m
I •..:,.../     Nn.-
              iwsw.-
                       DOL'KO ■WJiXJi UOATS AXOACii^JJlE 'JllJ': Ql'AV Ai' Ol'OKTO.
                                                                                          iA 'M.}
                          »r



'!• • ,".v.* u
                 f'S^'K

W':;^Ar:.
      Elderherries and Logwood—Getieral remarks ahout Port. 145

 or the pineau noir of Bui-gundy. There is no reason whatever
 why a perfectly fermented and consequently dry Alto Douro
 wine, which has received no addition of spirit, should not find
 a market in England; but it is scarcely likely to do so to the
 detriment of the"grand vin de hqueur," as the French style it,
 which we know under the name of Port.
    One great disadvantage under which shippers of Port wine
 labour is the frequent change of fashion with regard to the style
 of wine demanded in England. So constant are the changes
 and so endless the varieties now-a-days that it has been said
 there are almost as many styles of Port wine as shades of ribbon
 in a haberdasher's shop. At one time a deep-coloured, heavy
 wine will he in vogue; at another a wine paler in colour and
fighter in body, but rich in flavour. Sometimes dry wines are
in request, and latterly the fashion has set in for thin wines of
a fight tawny tint, the result of their resting for many years in
the wood—the kind of wines, in fact,which the Oporto shippers
invariably drink themselves. But then these wines are often
called for at a ridiculously cheap rate—less, in fact, than one-
fourth of what wines of the required age would cost the shipper
himself, who can only meet the demand by blending a red and
a white Port together. This blending is perfectly harmless, and
the consumer comforts himself with the belief that he has
acquired a tawny Port of fabulous age at an absurdly low figure.
I am, of course, referring here to cheap tawny Ports, and not to
those grand wines which have mellowed in flavour and lost their
colour in the course of a quarter of a century of ripeness, and
which are only to be obtained by paying an adequate price for
them.
   With such varying tastes requiring to be ministered to.Port
wine must necessarily be in some measure a work of art. Imagine
the dogmatic British wine-merchant demanding of Viscount
Aguado a high-coloured, fruity, or robust Chateau Margaux, or
sending to Burgundy for a rich and racy Gorton, and think of
the kind of answer he would be likely to receive.
   The happy possessors of Port in perfection are popularly
                                                          K
146                In the Port Wine Country.

supposed to be those individuals who have inherited a cellar of
wine laid down some half-century or so ago by a grandfather or
great-uncle, but there is really no reason why a man should not
lay down Port wine for his own drinking as well as for the benefit
of his descendants. An authority on the subject, Mr.T. G.Shaw,
has pointed out that a wine from well, hut not over, ripened
grapes,with fine full finnness,no hard stalkiness or dryness, and
sufficient richness, is certain to go forward improving, with this
great advantage that it does not absolutely require long keeping
in bottle. It is necessary, however, that it should be allowed to
mature and get rid of its coarse parts in the wood,and with this
object it ought to be kept from two to three years before being
shipped,and should be moreover frequently racked. It might then
be bottled three months after it reaches London,and in two years*
time will be better than it would become if bottled green and
kept ten years in bin; better because the long sojourn in contact
with a black cork and crust must deteriorate the bouquet. A
heavy crust and dark-stained cork are often regarded with mis
placed veneration, for their absence in a wine that has been
bottled some time may be taken as a proof that the wine was
ripe for bottling. A fii-m-holding crust is of the highest im-'
portance,and new wine usually gives a slippery crust,the grosser
parts falling too rapidly; whilst the deposit in older and weU-
racked wines forms more slowly and takes better hold. Mr.ShaW
is decidedly of opinion that the richer and fuller the vintage
may be the longer is it necessary for the wine to remain in the
wood in order that the saccharine it contains may be reduced by
fermentation in bulk. One may here remark that connoisseurs
who have sojourned at Oporto and enjoyed the opportunity of
drinking, at the tables of the shippers, the fine old wines which,
having been conserved for a considerable number of years in the
wood, have thereby become tawny as an ordinary deep-coloured
sherry, will as a rule prefer wine of this description to the
choicest bottled Port that could be offered to them.
      With regard to the cellar in which Port wine is laid down,
it should be noted that, whilst a cool and equable tempera-
      JEHderhenries and Logwood—General remarhs aio7it JPort. 147

 tare and due ventilation are necessary, it is essential that the
 cellar should not be too cold. Port is very easily chilled, its
 constituent parts, owing to the amount of colour,&c.,it contains,
 requiring more heat than any other wine to hold them in solu
 tion. At the same time the old plan of bm-ying it in sawdust
 is to be shunned, as if this gets damp it generates a degree of
 heat far from conducive to improvement. Indeed, for laying
 down Port or any other wine in a cellar of a proper temperature
 there is nothing better than the patent"slider" iron wine-bins
 of Messrs. W. and J. Bvurrow, of Malvern. In them the bottles




                         Uu^^rU-^sAv
     WINE-CElLAll PITTED WITH BUBEOW'S PATENT "SLIDEE" BINS.


rest on horizontal parallel bars of wi'ought-iron securely riveted
into strong wrought-iron uprights both at the back and front,
so that the pile of bottles stands as steadily as a rock,and there
is not the slightest chance of any shock being likely to cause
the crust to slip or otherwise disturb the wine. These"slider"
bins are, indeed, especially adapted for laying down Port.
When binning the wine the bottles are held by their necks and
shot horizontally into their places with the utmost ease and
       148                 In the Fort Wine Country.

       safety and they can be withdrawn with equal facility and without
       the slightest risk of shaking or in any way disturbing their
       neighbours. All risk of breakage is avoided by each bottle
       having an independent bearing,which prevents the upper bottles
       from either faUing or weighing down upon those below, and
       thereby crashing together. Another great advantage is that
       there is no waste of space, for individual compartments
       can always be refflled with fresh bottles after the other
       bottles have been removed. The bins may be obtained of any
       gize that is, to hold from two to forty dozens and can be had
       famished with lattice doors secured by a lock. The larger
       ■of the two annexed engravings shows a wine-ceUar entirely fitted
       up with Burrow's patent " slider" -wine-bins; whilst the smaller
       ■one represents a bin suited for the laying down of twenty
       dozens of Port, and yet measuring merely 5 feet 8 inches by
       3 feet.




                                         "siipbe" wine-bin.
                            A 20-POZEN




r' '               t.: -
                 GATHEBINO GRAPES AT SANTA OBTJZ.




                             PART III.

   THE VESTETAIiDS AND WINES OF MADEIEA
                          AND TENEBIPE.




      I.—The Voyage to Madeiea—The Vintage at
                  Santa Cbuz and Sao Joao.

Early Renown of the Wine of Madeira—Voyage to the Island on hoard the
   African—Leave-takings at Southampton—The Steamer touches at Ply
   mouth—Our Pellow-Passengers—Cape Town Snooks and Crawfish—
   Story of Chief Engineer Jones's Remarkable Find—We sight Porto Santo
   and then Madeira—^Appearance of the latter from the Sea—Amphibious
   Madeirense—Ox Sledges and Cars—Boat Excursion to Santa Crnz—
   Messrs. Krohn's Vineyard there—System of Training the Vines—
   Gathering and Treading the Grapes—The Pleasant Proximity of a Shark
   —Ride to the Quinta do Monte—The Vintage in Mr. Leacock's Vineyard
   at Sao Joao—Treatment of Vines attacked by the Phylloxera and the
   O'idium—Treading and Pressing the Grapes—A Treader Flung Across the
   Vara.

  In visiting Madeira to witness and describe the vintage and
make myself acquainted witb tbe wines tbe island produces, it
150          The Vineyards and Wines of Madeira.

was a point of curiosity with, me as to how so magnificent a
wine, once famous throughout Europe, should have gone out of
fashion to the extent that Madeira appears to have done. It
has escaped the persistent and often ignorant attacks directed
against sheriy and port, for no one pretends the wine to be
either plastered or unduly alcoholised; neither has any medical
oracle published his ignorance of the details of its vinification.
At the end of the fifteenth century Madeira was abeady ex
ported to Europe, and by the middle of the sixteenth was in
high favour at the court of Francis I. of France. That it was well
known in England no long time afterwards is evidenced by the
reference Shakspeare makes to it in Henry IV., where Poins twits
Falstaff respecting the compact he had made with Satan for his
soul, which he accuses droughty Jack of having"sold him on
Oood Friday last for a cup of Madeira and a cold capon's leg."
   We made the voyage out on board the African, belonging to
the Union Steamship Company, which runs some of the fastest
vessels to the Gape of Good Hope, Natal, and other ports on the
south-eastern coast of Africa. A sharp drive to Waterloo, and
a swift journey through smiling Surrey and Hampshire, whose
golden harvests, waiting the reaper's sickle, stretched among
pleasant English homesteads nestled under wooded hills,
brought us to Southampton, where greetings and partings suc
ceed each other every day throughout the changing year. As
usual a crowd of visitors, friends or relations of departing pas
sengers or ship's officers, boai-ded the steamer previous to her
departure, and unlimited limcheon for all on board followed as a
matter of course. There was a tall gentleman with a black
beard who seemed as if he would like to say something very
tender to a pretty girl, leaving under the captain's protection
for Madeira, but some kind friend or another always contrived
to be in the way. There was a first-class passenger of the
feminine sex, wife of a Cape diamond digger, who arrived on
board in a woeful state of inebriation, much to the scandal of
lookers-on. She at once dived down the companion, and was
conveyed to her berth, not to appear again until we had safely
                     The Voyage to Madeira.                   151

passed through Biscay's troubled waters and were directing our
course straight for Funchal Bay.
    Some adieux were necessarily touching, while others affected
unreal boisterous gaiety. Jokes were cracked and parting
glasses drained, and"God speed" wished the gallant ship, but
all the while moist eyes behed the lips that laughed the most.
Our tall friend with the beard had long been watching for his
opportunity, and now he had it, and while bending over the
bright-eyed damsel,"outward bound" like ourselves, he mus
tered up courage to say something which must have been to the
point indeed, for the frank blue eyes drooped, and a crimson
flush suffused the maiden's face. At length the last bell rang,
stran<Ters were invited to retire, and with a chorus accompani
ment of "Heave ahoy !" the anchor which yet impeded our pro
gress was slowly raised.
   It was three p.m. before we got tmder way and steamed
through Southampton waters. Then skirting the Isle of Wight,
past Osborne, where a waving standard and three war vessels
anchored within easy reach of the shore denoted the presence
of Royalty, we left the Needles behind us, and followed the
coast to Plymouth,which,set as it was between rippling waves of a
Canaletto green hue,and the blue sky flecked with fantastic clouds,
looked very picturesque indeed with Mount Edgcumbe rising to
the left, its lordly pax'k extending to the brow of the cliff,
and reflecting its deep green foliage in the eddying water
below.
   At Plymouth we took on board a party of wiry Comishmen
boimd for the Cape, where they hoped to make their fortunes
hy-and-by like many who had been out before them, but who
had since returned impoverished rather than enriched. The
Cape is no Tom Tidler's ground, and "stars of South Africa"
are far less plentiful than the fruit of the mango-tree. Indeed,
matters were very bad "down South," according to returning
colonists on board the African, and the situation was not
improved by the rivalry that apparently exists between East
and West province men. It was on this voyage that I first
152          The Vineyards and Wines of Madeira.

■became aware of tbe startling fact—communicated to me by a
canny Scot, wbo bad settled " out West, sir, in a decent part of
tbe country"—tbat tbe staple products of tbat benigbted locality.
Cape Town, are " snooks and crawfish," an assertion wbicb if
repeated witbin bearing of a " Gape Towner" suffices to drive
bim perfectly wild.   One colonist on board made so bold as to
state tbat tbe great difficulty concerning tbe Colonial Parba-
ment arose from tbese very Cape Town " snooks and crawfish,"
 wbicb for years past bad been so bountifully thrust down tbe
 throats of tbe members from outlying districts, tbat tbe latter
in utter disgust bad at length declared tbey would stand it no
longer. Another Western man asserted tbat in this case Cape
Town would be utterly ruined, for she bad subsisted during
many years past on tbe bttle money spent there by tbe provin
cial members of Parliament, and if she were deprived of tbat
resource, misery and desolation would be tbe inevitable result.
Yet another colonist from tbe borders of Kaffirland—wbo mali
ciously affirmed tbat many missionaries spend their time drink
ing bottled Allsopp and conning London Society, instead of con
verting tbe dusky heathen, applying, moreover, those beautiful
and highly moral printed pocket-handkerchiefs confided to them
to their own use—made matters worse by asserting tbat tbe
water of Table Bay was of such a pestilential character tbat even
snooks and crawfish could bve in it no longer, and were either
betaking themselves to tbe fresh waters of Port Ebzabetb, or
turning up stiff dead and unpleasantly odoriferous on tbe beach
in front of Cape Town!
   A more enj oyable five days' sail than tbe one we bad can scarcely
be conceived, although tbe'passage was devoid of any particular
incident. It was a positive relief to one to escai)e from letters
requiring replies, from tbe dull solemnities of London dinner
parties and tbe stifling ^atmosphere of London theatres, to be
quite cut off from newspapers, and free from tbe worry of con
tradictory telegrams fresh from tbe seat of war on tbe Danube.
To watch a shoal of gambolling porpoises or tbe rapid flight of
tbe stormy petrels was among our most arduous avocations.
                     Hie Voyage to Madeira.                  153"-

Our main anxiety for the future was bounded by the time for ,
meals, which, although these were frequent as well as excellent,,
were invariably awaited with all but ignoble impatience.
   One of the passengers told a very good story of an incident
that transpired on a former voyage of his to the Cape at a
period when the diamond fever was at its height. Chief Engineer
Jones tumed up on the quarter-deck one afternoon,and touching
his cap to Mr.VerdantPox—a Cape-bound passenger, who prided
himself u23on his sharpness, though his simplicity was at times
painful to witness—placidly inquired,"Please, sir, can you tell
me what this 'ere is ?" Chief Engineer Jones's eyes twinkled as
he held out for inspection a small rough translucent stone,,
which Mr. Verdant Pox nervously seized hold of, and held up to
the light. He seemed amazed for a time, and turned the object
over and over again in his hand, then assuming a knowing look
demanded where the stone came from. "Just foimd it down
stairs, sir, among the coals. Thought it looked a prettyish bit
of a pebble, and brought it to show you. Think it's worth any
thing ?" "Well, I don't mind giving you five pounds for it,"'
exclaimed Mr. Fox rather inconsiderately. "Five pounds 1.
ah, you're joking; still I daresay it's worth summut, so I'll give
it to my old woman when I get back." Mr. Fox looked disap
pointed. "Hut how came you to find it?" asked he. "Why I
saw something whitish like among the coals, and stooped down
and picked this 'ere stone up." "Well, Jones, my boy,all I can
say is that it's a real diamond." Naturally Jones appeared elated,
and went on his way rejoicing; while Mr. Fox commenced
spreading the news of the "find" about the quarter-deck.
   Ofcourse the statement was received with general incredulity;
but two or three days afterwards another find occurred—two-
stones being discovered close together by a stoker in the same
heap of coals—and quite a sensation was created on board. One
or two enterprising members of society privately determined upon
buying up the mine where the coals came from,and Mr. Verdant
Fox with a few friends spent their days below in the coal-
bunker and engine-room sifting coals and prying into cinders..
154          The Vineyards and Wines of Madeira.

Chief Engineer Jones occasionally joined them in their interest
ing search; and although, curious to say, none of the passengers
discovered anything, yet Jones one morning made a valuable
find in the shape of a small though really handsome stone, which
he readily sold on board for ^£40 cash down. The excitement
now reached its height, and many of the passengers spent every
hour of the day groping among the coals. But suddenly there
•came a startling revelation, which these searchers after diamonds
received either with incredulity or iU-concealed vexation. It
was asserted that the whole affair was nothing less than a well-
organised practical joke. The diamonds were real, but they
were never found among the coals. They had been handed to
Jones by a diamond-digger on board, who was returning to the
Cape with a few rough stones still in his possession,and who had
planned the pretended discovery with the view of amusing himself
■at the expense of the more gullible among his fellow-passengers.
    At daybreak, on our fifth day out, we sighted the island of
Porto Santo, rising phantom-like out of the sea—Porto Santo,
" the holy Haven," whence the early Portuguese settlers saw the
cloud which seemingly hung for ever in the west, and which
subsequently proved to be the rocky " island of wood"—the
ancients' mystic " Island of the Blessed," and the Madeira of
to-day. Both at Porto Santo and at Madeira Columbus for
some time resided—marrying the daughter of a Poi-tuguese
governor of the former place—prior to setting out on his
adventure in search of a new world.        Before noon we were
■steaming past the group of small islands known as the Desertas,
and in full view of Madeira itself, the barren rocky cliffs and
pine-capped motmtains of which, as the island first came into
view, took us somewhat by surprise. All became changed,
however, as we approached nearer to Prmchal, and little hamlets
formed of whitewashed casas, standing among treUised vineyards
or patches of sugar-canes, were discerned nestled by the shore or
in the valleys and ravines, and the fertility of the island became
 obvious enough. At length the Brazen Head was turned, and
Punchal appeared, stretched out at the foot of the lofty hills, and
                    The Voyage to Madeira.                    156


■wdth the sea beating over its beacb. Higbt and left flimsy forts,
ostensibly for tbe purpose of defence, displayed tbeir toy turrets
and ragged battlements, and as we turned tbe point tbe cas
tellated structure on tbe Loo rock announced our approach by
discharging one of tbe rusty muzzle-loading cannons decorating its
crumbUng embrasures. Soon tbe African let go her anchor, and
a swarm of boats came alongside, and tbe amphibious portion
of tbe population of tbe island commenced diving in tbe sea for




       Divine roB coins at riTNOHAi (feosi " the QBArHic").
 156            The Vineyards and Wines of Madeira.

 silver coins ■whicli the passengers from time to time threw over
 the steamer's side. In about a quarter of an hour we were on our
 way to the shore, where, owing to the surf and the steepness of
 the beach, oxen are had recourse to, to draw the boats up. Oxen,
 moreover, dragged our baggage on a sledge to the Custom
 House, while other oxen conveyed us in a basket-carriage, which
 slid along on runners over the paved streets, to our point of
 destination.    Owing to its steep and peculiarly-paved roads,
 vehicles on wheels are never used in Madeira.
   . Our first excursion was to a vineyard in the occupation of
 the Messrs. Krohn, lying just above the little seaside hamlet of
 Santa Cruz, a favourite spring-time place of resort, situate some
 dozen miles or so eastward of Funchal, and in fall view of the
  Desertas group of islands. Four sun-bumt, sinewy boatmen
, rowed us thither in an hour and a-half. A Httle bay, a few
 boats, a cluster of white houses, more or less hidden by trees,
some httle cottages perched half-way up the mountain, with
patches of vines, sugar-canes, and sweet potatoes planted on
 terraces along the sides of a ravine—these are the main features
 of Santa Cruz viewed from the sea. On landing we crossed the
 pra^a, or public promenade, planted with shady trees- then
 passed through a grove of laurels some forty or fifty feet iu
 height, and were soon ascending the slope on which is situate the
 vineyard we had come to see.
    Like most of the vineyards of Madeira, its area is hmited,
 comprising merely four acres, which are walled in on all sides.
 Although on the slopes of a ravine, the surface has been levelled
by bringing soil from other parts, so that it presents only a
gradual ascent towards the farther end, where there is a pleasant
country-house, planted round about with rare tropical and other
trees. These comprise oleanders, brilliant in flower and rich in
perfume ; eriobotrya japonica, producing a yellow plum-shaped
 fruit which ripens in the spring; anonas, yielding the aromatic
 and refreshing custard apple ; guavas; flowering pomegranates,
 with their gorgeous scarlet blossoms; petangas, furnishing a
 fruit resembling the strawberry in flavour; coffee and pepper
                                      .       '    .1

                              "' X.       ■ Vtj




        i'' III \




y.- .




                                          !       ' 1




                    ■ . ■A-
            s




TREADING GRAPES IN THE LAGAR OF MESSRS. KROHN BROTHERS AT SANTA CRUE, IMAUEIRA.
                                                                            (/• I57*)
          The Vintage at Satila Crtiz and Sdo Joao.           157

trees, with their feathery-looking foliage, and many others.
Steep heights laid out in cultivated terraces, and with fir-trees
crowning their summits, inclose the vineyard on both sides.
The majority of the vines, which are mainly of the ver-
delho variety, with an insignificant sprinkling of the tinta,
or black grape, are trained on low horizontal trellises, raised
about four feet from the ground, and termed"latadas," almost a
counterpart of the Kammerbau system of training prevalent in
certain vine districts of Germany. The remaining vines are
trained higher from the ground, in what is called corridor
fashion, the trellises overhead affording a pleasant shade ffom
the summer heats. These trellises are constructed of cane or
pine, with chestnut poles serving as supports. There were no
signs of phylloxera among the vines, and, considering the
unusual dampness of the past season, no large amount of
rottenness among the grapes, which had suffered more from
legions of lizards and swarms of bees and wasps than any other
cause. The island is, in fact, overrun with lizards. They scale
the loftiest walls and feed upon the grapes; while as to bees,
although it is forbidden to keep them in the neighbourhood of
the vineyards,the interdict is disregarded,and the best bunches
of grapes are commonly lost through their depredations.
    The pickers here were all men, black-bearded, barefooted,
and in ragged raiment, with their skins almost as brown as
their mahogany-coloured breeches. They cut off the grapes and
fluno- them into round open baskets with handles, emptying
these afterwards into a larger basket similar in shape, and
known as the"cesto de vindima." The latter basket holds above
a hundredweight of grapes, about sufficient to produce a baril
of mosto, equal to a trifle over nine imperial gallons. The casa
do lagar, or pressing-house, was in the centre of the vineyard,
the lagar itself being a huge wooden trough similar to that used
in the sherry district. Instead, however, of an iron screw rising
up in the centre of the lagar, a huge wooden beam,like those in
use in the neighbourhood of Lisbon and in the Upper Douro,hangs
across it, and aids in the extraction of the juice from the piled-up
 158          The Vineyards and Wines of Madeira.

 grape-skins after these have been well trodden hy several pairs
 of brawny feet. Before, however, the treaders mount into the
 lagar the grapes' own weight produces a steady flow of juice
 into the adjoining vat—a rivulet which becomes a torrent when
 the treading commences. The men dispersed over the lagar
 commence with a slow, steady movement, then spread out their
 arms and grasp the huge intervening beam, rapidly advancing
 and retiring one from the other,occasionally turning rapidly haK-
 way round, now to the right and now to the left, their frantic
 movements presently subsiding into a slow monotonous kind of
jig. We were unable to witness the conclusion of the operation,
 and set off on our return to Bunchal,encountering on our way a
shark, some three boats' length from us, swimming leisurely
out to sea. The boatmen said there was no danger, nevertheless
we watched the increasing distance between us and the animal's
capacious jaws with a certain degree of satisfaction. Eeaching
Funchal, we rode up a steep paved road, which in parts was
merely so many flights of stone steps, to the Quinta do Monte,
the beautiful country seat of Mr. Leland Cossart, situated a
few miles up the mountain and some couple of thousand feet
above the sea. At this charming place, with grounds of great
extent laid out in admirable taste, and planted with luxuriant
foliage, we had the advantage of staying during much of the
time we spent at Madeira.
   A day or two after my excursion to Santa Cruz I had an
opportunity of witnessing the vintage at Sao Joao, north-west of
Funchal, in a vineyard of about thirteen acres in extent, and
very carefully cultivated by its owner, Mr. Leacock,whose house
is one of the oldest in the Madeira wine trade, dating back as it
does to the year 1749. Here the vines, planted on ridges,which
form a trench between the different rows, are trained along
horizontal wires, supported by slanting posts, meeting together
at the top in the form of an inverted V. The vines, too, arc
more closely pnined than is usually the case, the prevalent
practice being to allow them to run largely to wood. Mr. Lea-
cock's vineyard was attacked by phylloxera a few years ago, and


                                                                     :.S-J
                    ■ ■- .■.W'hf'




                                      .!'V. ,p. '
                                    ■,<       .' »!

          " I •


      V    . iv

V'        v'V,
      y'Jl'
• '   H     i* '■
THE VINTAGE AT MR. LEACOCK'd QUIaTA AT SAO JOAO, NEAR FUNCHAL, MADEIRA.;
                                                                           (A »S9-)
            The Vintage at Santa Cruz and Sao Joao.           159^

  many of the vines were seriously affected. The owner, however,
 by watchful care and judicious treatment, including the applica
 tion to the principal roots of the vine of a kind of varnish which
 in this instance seems to have proved specific, has succeeded in
 restoring most of the diseased vines to a comparatively healthy
 condition. Not only is the Madeira vmegrower in dread of the
 phylloxera, hut he has to guard his vines against the oidium as.
well. This he accomplishes by freely sulphuiing them, on&
disadvantage of which is the difiiculty of getting rid of the
sulphur from the fruit. Mr. Leacock effects this by the aid of
bellows and brushes which women have been taught to use with
patience and skiU at the season ofthe year when the skins of the
grapes commence to shine. Although the vineyard comprises
less than thii'teen acres, the grapes would be picked at no less
tha.n eight different times, only the perfectly ripe bunches being-
gathered on each occasion. The vintage, which commenced on
August 24th, owing to this circumstance would last for a period
of fully three weeks. The pickers were barefooted women, in
fight gowns and white linen jackets with red and yellow kerchiefs
tied over their heads. Their pay was equal to only 7|^d. per
day, while the men who collected the grapes in the larger baskets
and trod them in the lagar received an equivalent to Is. 3d.
   The casa do lagar is a low stone building with high jjitched
roof, lighted by a couple of small windows, and shaded by the
spreading branches of a fine specimen of the eriobotrya japonica.
It is provided with a couple of lagars, the larger of which is
capable of pressing four or five pipes of mosto at a time. We
found six men at work in it, three on either side of the cumber
some dividing beam or vara. The first juice that ran off was
emptied into a balceiro or small vat, holding about eighty
gallons, and provided with a tap at the lower part to enable the
juice to be drawn off after the little sulphur that had remained
on the grapes had settled at the bottom. The treaders went
through much the same movement as we have already described,
and when the expressed juice could no longer escape from the
lagar, through the aperture being stopped up with the crushed
 160          The Vineyards and Wines of Madeira.

 grapes, tlie latter were all piled up in tlie centre or at the sides
 and pressed and patted with the hands, the juice as it escaped
 being strained by passing through a basket hung on to the bica
•or spout of the lagar. This piling up was repeated three times,
 known as the first, second, and third avertura or opening, and
then came another operation—the compactly piling of the mass
in a central heap for the cord, which was coiled neatly round it,
with intervening spaces through which the juice could exude.
A stout wooden disc, strengthened with cross-pieces, was placed
•on the top, and on this several square billets were laid trans
 versely, with a stout board over all. On this pile the beam is
 brought to bear by means of the perpendicular screw at one end
 of it, resting on a huge stone a few feet from the lagar. The
.juice pressed by this means is called "vinho da corda." After
an hour or two of this work the solid mass is broken up •with
the hands or with hoes, if necessary, and then commences the
repiza, a vigorous dancing and jumping movement executed to
time upon the apparently diy grape-skins. This is in order
effectually to bruise those grapes that are in the condition of
raisins and have become softened from soaking in the expressed
juice. The repiza lasts for half an hour or so, the men en
livening their labours with a variety of jokes, practical and
other. Occasionally two of them on one side of the beam wdl
suddenly seize a comrade and toss him over to the other side,
where the men will receive him •with open arms, but only to
fling him back over the beam again, amidst the laughter of the
party. The grape-skins are now piled up again, and once more
pressed; then water is poured upon them, and they are weU
stirred up and pressed for the last time, yielding the agua p^,
given to the workpeople to drink.
                            A MADEIEA CAEBO. ^

II.—The Vinetaeds op Sao Maetinho, Cama de Lobos, the
  Estbeito, Qttinta G-eahde, Santo Antonio, and others.
A Sledge Descent to Punchal—Excursion witli a Party in Hammocks to the
    Vineyards on the South Side of the Island—Meet some Boracheiros
    bringing down Newly-made Wine in Skins—The District of Sao Martinho
       The Eavine of the Ribeiro dos Soccorridos—View from the Peak of
    Cama de Lobos—Its Vineyards destroyed by the Phylloxera—Breakfast
    at a Dame's School—The Vineyards of the Estreito—We cross the Ribeiro
    de Vigario—Ascend to the Summit of Caho Girao,the Highest Cliff against
    which the Sea Dashes in the World—Have Luncheon there, and our Bearers
   take their Siesta—Steep and Difficult Descent to Cama de Lohos—We
   return by Eunchal by Boat—Dangerous Eddy off Ponta ^a Cruz—
   Excursion on Horseback to the Vineyards of the Santo Antonio District—;
                                                                    L
162             The Vineyards and Wines of Madeira.

   The Madeira Mirantes or Look-out Places—Scanty Raiment worn by the
   Children—The Many Hundred Miles of Terraced-Walls at Madeira—
      Tenure of Land in the Island—Kent Paid in Kind—Senhor Salles's Vine
   yard—We visit the Vineyard known as Mae dos Homens, or Mother of
   Men,in a Bullock-car—Find the Animals more Patient and Quiet than
   their Excitable, Noisy Drivers—The Principal Vineyards on the North
      Side of the Island.

      The morning after our visit to Sao Joao we were aroused
■soon after five o'clock with, tlie announcement tliat men witk
carros, or basket sledges, were waiting to run us down from the
Mount to Tunchal, whence hammock-bearers were to convey a
party of us through several of the principal viticultural districts
on the southern side of the island. By six we were scudding
fiown the steep shppery roadway at a speed which occasionally
touched twenty miles an hour. The basket car in which we
made this descent—the usual method of getting to Funchal—
slides along on wooden runners easily enough when once set in
motion by its pair of swift-footed conductors, who guide it with
their hands or by the aid of leathern traces attached to the front
on either side. When the road is very steep the men press one
of their feet on the framework of the car to lessen its speed, and
whenever inclined to be level sling the leathern traces across
their shoulders and drag the car along like a pair of fleet
coursers. The first time you find yourself thus furiously whisked
along over a roughly-paved though slippery road, and see before
you the steep declines you are about to descend, or the sharp
turns to be made while proceeding at this break-neck pace, you
are apt to feel a little nervous. But you soon come to the con
clusion that if not exactly the safest this is the easiest and
pleasantest, as it is unquestionably the only rapid, mode of
travelling in the island. Our party was four in number, and
each had his three hammock-bearers—muscular and agile men,
two of whom carried the hammock, while the third reheved one
or other of them from time to time. As it was necessary we
should take our provisions with us, a gang of men and boys had
been engaged for this purpose, so that our troop was altogether
a considerable one.         The hammocks, which are slruig on stout
      Tlie Vineyards of Sao Martinho, Cama de Lohos, &c. 163

poles, about the size of tbe bowsprit of a small sailing boat,
 must be of considerable weight when tenanted; but our bearers
•set off as lightly as if their burden had been merely a walking-
 stick with a bundle, and strode along up the steep road at fully
four miles an hour.
    After we had passed out of the Punchal district we crossed
the ravine of the Eibeiro Secco,the narrow mountain road being
"bordered by blackberry hedges, interspersed -with wild honey
suckles,roses,and geraniums,and occasional prickly pears. Here
and there the fazendas, or cultivated lands, which, ovdng to the
rocky mountainous character of the region, are often the merest
plots, are inclosed by stone walls up which the young lizards
may be seen scampering. "W^e pass under trellises of vines, by
patches of sugar-canes and shady fig-trees, with small water-,
■courses gurgling along at our side. On our right rise the peaks
■of Sao Martinho and Santo Antonio, the former covered half-way
up its sides with vines, while the loftier peaks beyond are crowned
with chestnuts and pines. We continually meet brown, bony,
and barefooted peasant women, and encounter a party of toiling
borachehos in their fantastic-shaped caps resembling inverted
funnels, bringing down newly-made wine in sheep and goat
skins slung over their backs and kept steady by straps across
their burning foreheads. At length we reach the church of
Sao Martinho—a grove of cypresses indicating the adjacent
cemetery—and pass the -village forge, where all the male gossips
■of the neighbourhood seemed to be congregated.
     Sao Martinho is an important viticultural district, yielding a
high-class -wine with fine bouquet; and fortunately its vines
have been only slightly attacked by the phylloxera. The vintage
had already commenced, but the yield promised to he only a very
moderate one, owing to the grapes having rotted from an excess
of moisture. Our first halt was at a place called Terra dos
Alhos—in other words, the land of garlic. Here our hammock-
bearers had a short rest, regaling themselves with glasses of
warm punch at a wayside venda while we stretched our limbs by
striding up and down. Shortly after starting again we descended
164         The Vineyards and Wines of Madeira.




       -■■€sw^


                    i'




half-way down the ravine of the Eibeiro dos Soccorridos, the
sides of which are covered with built-up terraces planted, for
the most part, with sugar-canes and a few fig-trees and prickly
pears. The road is rugged and winding, and far down below is
a black, stony river-bed, which in winter is a rushing torrent
sweeping huge boulders along in its course. Overhead an occa
sional chestnut-tree throws out its welcome shade ; for the sun
is shining fiercely, and our perspiring bearers need a third man
to support the hammock behind while ascending the steep
rugged path, on the opposite side of the ravine, which conducts
to the peak of Cama de Lobos.
       The Vineyards of Sao Martinlio, Cama de Lohos, &c. 165

     From this breezy height we look down upon the one side on
•a little fishing village with its rocky headlands, and the grand
 Cabo G-ii'ao and its miniature bay,and on the other into a fertile
 hollow, formerly covered with vines which yielded one of the
finest and. most robust of Madeha growths. A year or two ago
vines sloped dowm from the summit of the peak on all its sides
and occupied every cultivated spot in the rear of the village; but
the phylloxera has destroyed them nearly all, and the famous
wine-growing district of Cama de Lobos, which used to produce
3,000 pipes annually, now yields merely 100. One of our party,
Mr. Kussell Gordon, who had become a large landowner in this
and adjacent districts through his marriage with a Portuguese
lady of rank, informed us that even two years preceding Cama
de Lobos jielded upwards of a couple of thousand pipes of wine;
but since then nearly the whole of the vines have been rooted up
and sugar-canes planted in their place wherever a fair supply of
the necessary water could be obtained. The peak itself, a mass
of soft red friable stone, will grow, however, only vines, and
therefore a large tract of ground has passed entirely out of
cultivation. Everywhere around signs of the former prosperity
of the distiict were visible—terraces rising upon terraces in
every nook and coigne of vantage, with substantial stone-built
easas surrounded by trees and gardens, dotting all the slopes.
Higher up the mountain is the district known as the Bstreito
de Cama de Lobos, some of the vines of which have been planted
at an altitude httle short of a couple of thousand feet above the
sea-level, or several hundred feet higher than the vine will
thrive with certainty. As yet the phylloxera had only attacked
the lower vines, but the others had suffered more or less from
the unusual rains of the past spring and summer.
   Our bearers set forth again, and in the course of half an
hour tiuned in at an open gateway along a narrow path
beneath trelhses laden with large bunches of ripe grapes. We
stopped at a little casa belonging to one of Mr. Gordon's
tenants, which was literally embowered among vines, and turned
out to be the dame school of the village. Here we breakfasted
 166         The Vineyards and Wines of Madeira.

 in a homely way off various Madeira delicacies, including
 some choice old Sercial, with an appetite which the exces
sive heat had in no wise moderated. When we were again on
the move we visited the vineyards surrounding the Estreito
church, passing at intervals under vines in corridors, and
eventually making the descent of the valley of the Eibeiro dO'
Vigario, catching glimpes every now and then of the brilliant
blue sea. Then we wound along a narrow, rugged mountain
road, occasionally passing a casa with butts of wine ranged on a
rocky ledge in front to mature more rapidly under the influence
of a burning sun. On one side of us rose a wall of rock, and on
the other descended a steep precipice, as we followed a turn in
the ravine in order to cross the narrow stone bridge spanning
the rocky chasm. Perched on the summit of the jutting crags
were one or two little houses, after passing which the road ran
for a while between stone walls, with trellised vines throwing
out their branches overhead.
    Our bearers strode briskly forward, keeping time and step,
and thereby imparting to our hammocks an agreeable oscfllating
motion which sent us half-way into the land of dreams, whence
we were suddenly summoned back as we made some abrupt
jolting descent. Occasionally we stopped for a time to inspect
a vineyard and ascertain the prospects of the vintage. At one
casa we tasted some very fair wine, which its peasant owner,
who had a stock of fifteen or sixteen pipes, worth between two
and three hundred pounds, was exceedingly anxious to selk
When we set out again our bearers, who meanwhile had been
liberally refreshed with wine, became remarkably lively, cutting
jokes with every passing peasant. A good hour was spent in
continual ascents and descents of the intricate winding road,
along the steep sides of the ravine, everywhere laid out in ter
races and garden plots. A waterfall topples down over a ledge of
rock and loses itself in vaporous spray, the mountain path
becomes narrow and rugged and difiicult to traverse, the pre
cipice gets loftier and steeper, and should our bearers, whose
gaiety somewhat troubles one, only make a false step, we see
    Tlie Vineyards of Sao Martinho, Cama de Lohos, Sc. 167

Leneatli us a certain fall of three or four hundred feet.    At
length we reach the high ground, and women gaze at our party
with open eyes from the doors of their thatched cottages, built
close against the steeper slopes and literally buried under luxu
riant vines. Our hearers continue as lively as ever; and one of
them, proud of an opportunity of airing his Enghsh, after




 inquiring the way of some passing peasant, amazes him and
 convulses his comrades with laughter by shouting,"All right;
 thank you, sir, very much!" Whilst winding round on our way
 to the summit of Cabo Oirao, in other words Cape Turn-again^
 we obtain a view of the district known as the Quinta Orande,the
 vines of which, but slightly affected by the phylloxera, promised
 168          The Thieyards and Wines of Madeira.

 to give a very fair yield. We are now in the region where
 chestnut-trees abound, and pass for some distance under their
 pleasant shade, then make a short cut over the surrounding
 fazendas, and finally reach the summit of the Cape.
     Here we look over the perpendicular sides of what is said to
 be the highest cliff against which the sea dashes in the world.
 The altitude is almost 2,000 feet; and the vineyards formed by
 landslips at its base, and the produce of which is much esteemed,
 when viewed from above look scarcely larger than a sheet of
 foolscap paper. Here we lunched, and while we chatted over our
■cigars our tired hammock-bearers took their well-earned siesta.
 After an hour's repose we descended on foot along a villainous
 breakneck road to the picturesque fishing village of Cama do
iobos—literally the sea-wolves', that is, the seals'-den where
 we noticed that many of the men wore flat green-glazed hats of
the circumference of a small umbrella. A boat which we had
■ordered round from Funchal was in readiness to row us home
■again, and we were soon gliding along past many a jutting rock
over which the sea was wildly breaking, and through many a
■dangerous eddy, the worst being off Ponta da Cruz, where omr
hoatmen reverently doffed their caps and religiously crossed
fhemselves, for here many of their fellows have found a watery
grave. Arrived at Punchal, we rode up to the Mount by the
light of a brilliant moon.
   On a subsequent day we made an excursion to the Santo
Antonio district, visiting among other vineyards rather an ex
tensive one belonging to Senhor Salles, which in exceptionally
;good years has produced as many as a hundred pipes of wine.
Hefore proceeding thither we made a farewell tour round Mr.
Leland Cossart's beautiful Quinta do Monte, with its lawns and
rivulets, its brilliant floral parterres and sculptured marble
fountain, and its projecting signal tower commanding a fine
"view of Punchal and the shipping in its bay. Pleasant it was
to thread its groves of English oaks, and shady sequestered side
walks plantedwithchoice trees from tropical and temperate climes.
Here were pines, gum, cork, and india-rubber trees, loquats,
      Tlie Vineyards of Sao MartinJio, Cama de Lobos, Sfc. 169

magnolias, and camellias of the dimensions of yoimg oaks, Aus
tralian eucalypti with their bluish-green silver foliage, and scores
■of others whose exotic namesIdare not trust myself to pen.
    We made the excursion to Santo Antonio on horseback, and
the ride, with due allowances for the nature of the road, which
was of the usual Madeira kind, was a most agi-eeable one. Our




                                                   i'
27Q          The Tineyavds and Wines of Madeira.

way lay in part between tbe garden-walls of pleasant-looking
casas with Tines trained in corridors meeting over our beads.
Between their leafy arcades we every now and then caught
.Glimpses ofthe smiling faces of young girls seated in the mirantes,
or look-out seats, engaged in watching the passers-by. Tawny
tinted urchins sprawled in the sun before^ the cottage doors,
clad in the scanty costume common to the island, consisting o
a single garment, something between a chemise and a night-
crown, and which is worn by children of both sexes until they
are about eight years old. We rode up to the summit of the
peak of Santo Antonio, which on one side commands a perfect
view of the vineyards and villages of Sao Martinho and Santo
Amaro, the hills between them and the purple headlands,
stretching out to sea, being cultivated principally with gram,
with here and there a patch of vines, while on the lower lands,
where water is procurable, sugar-canes invariably predominate.
Turning round, the eye takes in a broad expanse of
spreading themselves over the wide valley and stretching haU-
 way up the nearer mountain slopes, the summits^ of which are
clothed with chestnut-trees and pines. Beyond rise up the dis
tant peaks, at times varied with a few patches of scanty vege
tation, at others bare and desolate-looking, their craggy sides
intersected with gloomy ravines. The view comprises the Santo
 Antonio, Sao Eoque, and Sao Joao, together with the Funchal
 and Caminho do Meio districts. Bound about much of the
 cultivated land is piled up in terraces supported by stone walls,
 after the fashion prevalent in the island.
      Senhor SaUes's vineyard is intersected by a road, and one
 portion, overlooking a ravine, was affected both by phylloxera
 and oidium,the latter because the vines had not been sulphured
 in accordance with the prevailing practice. The vines already
 destroyed by the phylloxera had been replaced by sugar-canes.
 The yield, therefore, from this portion of the vineyard would
 show a considerable falling off, but on the other side of the road,
 where the vines were in a more healthy state, the crop would be
 far more satisfactory. Senhor Salles had recently given hi»
     The Yineyards of Sdo Maiiin7io, Oama de Lotos, &c. 171

attention to the cultivation of pine-apples under glass (hut -with
out resorting to artificial heat), and had been so far successful as.
to find a ready market for them in London at as much as 16s.each.
     The -vineyards of the Santo Antonio district usually yield a
good -wine, -n'hile those comprised in -what is known as the
Funchal Basin, and others to the east of it at Caneco, Santa.
Cruz, and Machico, produce a light -wine of very fair quality.
Fortunately, none of these localities are as yet seriously affected
-with the phylloxera. One large vineyard we visited in the
Caminho do Meio in the vicinity of Funchal was known by the
name of the Mae dos Homens, or the Mother of Men. It was
o-wned by Senhor Leitao, a Madeira banker, and the holder of a
considerable stock of wine. We weht there in a car dra-wn by
bullocks, which, equally regardless of the yellings and coaxings
of their drivers, toiled at their own steady pace up the steep
winding paved road leading out of the town. The Madeira bul
locks are far more patient and quiet than their drivers, who, when
urging the animals foi-ward, raise their stentorian voices to the
highest pitch,constantly shouting"Ca-para-mim-boi-ca-ca-ca-oa"
(Come to me, oxen, come, come, come). The vineyard was laid
out in plots rising one above the other, the majority of the vines,
being trained on low trellises, and the remainder in coriidors
against the walls and over the walks. The-vines, as a rule, were
twelve years old; some few,however,were only three,and bearing
for the first time. Though very carefully nourished,the yield of
the vineyard promised to be a remarkably small one—thii-ty-five
pipes from over thirty acres. A variety of circumstances con
duced to this result. There were symptoms of phylloxera, and
many of the grapes had rotted from excessive moisture, besides,
suffering from the Madeira -wine-grower's customary pests in
the form of bees, wasps, flies, lizards, and rats. The oidium had
been kept down by sulphuring the vines at the rate of an arroba
(321bs.) per acre. Surrounded by sugar-canes and overlooking
a sea of vines was the rose-tinted -villa residence of the pro
prietor, with the large central apartment on the ground-floor-
serving as a casa do lagar.
172          The Yineyards and Wines of Madeira.

    On the north side of the island the largest quantity of
wine is produced at Sei9al and Sao Vicente; while the best is
■certainly grown at Porta da Cruz, where Mr. Eobert Donald
son owns a vineyard, of the excellent produce of which we shall
have occasion to speak by-and-by. The excursion thither is best
made from Santa Cruz, up the usual steep road, paved at the
commencement with round pebbles or long narrow flat stones
and afterwards passing over rocks and stones of varied size and
shape. Instead of being inclosed by tall walls, the road is bor-
•dei'ed by fuchsias, geraniums, and the tree-heath, thus afibrding
views of the glistening, vapoury blue sea, and the long rocky
peninsula at the eastern extremity of the island. Westward
-of Porta da Cruz is the famous Penha d'Aquia, or Eagle's Rock,
inaccessible on all sides but one, and joined to the mainland by
■a low-lying cultivated tract of ground.




                                                              : i'A'
                                                                       r




                                                                 - 'hm
w-
                                                         ■   • '. ■ r '^V. ^ '-I«:

                                                       ■ /y.^^a?l' '       '   45




                               '■---irv
                                  • ' Y' ■ •'•* "
                                   ■      •'■•■" v.;




     fe;. ■   ' •" •* . '>   v!' 1. , .
SOJIE OF THE PRINCIPAL VINEYARD DISTRICTS OF MADEIRA.
            SEEN EROII THE GARDENS OF THE MOUNT.
                                                        (A I73-)
r

   m.—The Vines, theie Cultivation, and the chief
              VlTICULTUEAL DiSTEICTS OF MaDEIEA.
Introduction of the Vine into Madeira—Ravages caused by the Oidium—Re
    planting of the Vines—The Phylloxera Vastatrix—Species of Grapes
    Cultivated in the Madeira Vineyards—Planting and Training of the Vines
    —Past and Present Mode of Training adopted on the North Side of the
    Island—Varieties of Soils—The Terraced Vineyards of Madeira Tenure
    of Land—Rent invariably paid in Kind—The Principal Viticultural
    Districts—Mr. R. Davies's Charming Villa "A Vigia"—Scarcity of
    Water in Madcii-a—Periodical Levadas and their High Value—The Supplv
    of Drinking Water.

    Thebe is a vague tradition that the vine was first introduced
into Madeira from Cyprus early in the fifteenth century, and
soon after the second discovery of the island by the famous sea
captain Joao Gon9alves Zarco. The importation of the finer
varieties of vines, however, is believed to be due to the Jesuits
at a much more recent" period. The "wine from their vineyards
excelled all other, and up to the time when the vines were
destroyed by the oidium, some of the best wine produced on the
island came from "vineyards that formerly belonged to the order.
The vines were first attacked by the oidium in 1852, and in a
few years were all but exterminated, when sugar-canes com
monly took their place in those situations where the requisite
amount of moisture could be secured. In about eight years'
time vines began to be planted again, and in 1863 a moderate
quantity of wine was vintaged. Since this epoch the vineyards
gradually extended themselves, until the replanting of vines
was checked by the appearance in the island of the phylloxera
vastatrix during the year 1873.
   Two-thirds of the vines in the Madeira "vineyards are of the
verdelho variety, the grapes of which abound in saccharine and
yield a rich wine of splendid quality. The sercial grape, which
is said to be the famous riesling of the Rhine transplanted to
174          The Vineyards and Wines of Madeira.

Madeira, and is now exceedingly rare (in the Ponta do Pargo
■district on the south-west of the island it is most prevalent),
jields a strong, dry, white wine, possessing an exquisite bouquet.
When young, however, this wine is harsh to the palate, age
being requisite to bring it to perfection and develop that nutty
flavour for which it is distinguished. Another grape is the
bual or boal, also rather rare, and giving a rich luscious wine,
■delicate in flavour and with a special bouquet. The black grape
commonly found intermingled with the foregoing white varieties
is the tinta, from which a distinct wine is to some extent made,
deep in colour and astringent in flavour, due to the stalks and
skins of the grapes being steeped in the must during fermenta
tion. In a few years this wine becomes tawny, and in course of
time subsides to the colour of an average deep Madeira. Another
variety of grape, known as the bastardo, is of a pinkish hue.
The wine it produces has a very fine bouquet, and is sweet to
the taste, leaving behind it, however, a not unpleasant astrin-
gency. Other white grapes occasionally met with are the
tarantrez, the listrao, and the maroto, the first of which yields a
wine held in some estimation when old.
      Every one has heard of the famous Malmsey Madeira, pro-
■duced from the malvasia species of grape—a luscious wine,
which with age becomes somewhat spirituous, and has all the
character of a fine liqueur. For a number of years the finest
Malmsey produced in the island was grown in one particular
spot close to the sea, and rmder a high cliff called Fajaa dos
Padres, to the west of Cama de Lobos, and in a vineyaid
belonging to the Jesuits. To-day, however, the vineyard has
become the property of the Netto family, and is planted prin
cipally with vines of the verdelho variety. The malvasia grape
requires a very dry soil and intense heat, and is not usually
gathered until it partakes of the character of the raisin. An
insignificant quantity of wine is made from the muscatel grape,
sweet in flavour, and possessing the well-known special bouquet
which a decoction of elder-flowers imitates so successfully. The
Madeira vineyards being, as a rule, small in area, and planted
    The Vines, their Cultivation,and Chief Vineyard Districts. 175

■with several varieties of vines, it is not worth the cultivator's
 while to separate the different species before pressing them in
the lagar. Consequently the whole get crushed together, the
result being a rich and somewhat deep-coloured white wine,
•due to the admixture of black grapes, a certain quantity of which
are to be found in every vineyard. In -vineyards of greater
extent more care is ordinarily taken, the various kinds of grapes
■are crushed separately, and the mosto from each is kept apart,
especially that from the sercial, bual, and malvasia varieties.
   In Madeira the vines are propagated by cuttings, which used
to be planted merely some twenty inches deep in the ground.
Now, however, it is the practice to imbed these in trenches four
feet or more in depth, according to the character of the soU. At
the bottom of the trench a layer of loose stones is placed to pre
vent the roots from penetrating to the stiff soil beneath. In the
better-class vineyards these cuttings are commonly planted very
wide apart. The vines bear in their third year, and are trained
in the majority of instances either in latada or corridor fashion,
both of which have been described in my account of Messrs.
Krohn's vineyard in Santa Cruz. One disadvantage of these latadas
is that under many of them there is barely room for the men to
•creep in order to weed, prune, and train the vines, to partially
strip the leaves from them, as is commonly done during the
summer months, or to pluck the grapes at the time of the
vintage. Only in particular instances is any more modem
system of training, such as that pursued by Mr. Leacock at Sao
Joao, adopted. When viewed from a height the framework of
these latadas, blanched as it commonly is by the combined
influence of sun and rain, presents much the appearance of a
number of nets spread out upon the ground.
    On the north side of the island, previous to the ravages
caused by the o'idium, the vines were trained to the numerous
chestnut-trees and allowed to grow to almost any height, or else
were left to straggle at will over the rocks and ground. As
good wine only comes from grapes grown near the surface of the
fioil, much of the produce from the vines trained to trees was
176           The Vineyards and Wines of Madeira.

only fit for distillation into brandy. Soon after tbe appearance
of tbe oidinxn tbe majority of tbe trees were destroyed by bbgbt^
and wben tbe vines came to be replanted tbey were trained
in similar fashion to tbose on tbe soutb side of tbe island.
   Tbe soils of tbe Madeira vineyards are saibro,or decomposed
red tufa, cascalbo, of a stony character, pedra moUe, or de
composed yellow tufa, and marsapes, or clay resulting from tbe
decomposition of tbe darker tufas. Tbe soil which yields tbe
best wine is tbe saibro, more especially wben there is ap ad
mixture of stones with it. In many parts tbe vines are planted
in soil piled up in terraces supported by stone walls. This
system was originally adopted as a precaution against tbe
periodical rains which wash tbe soil away down tbe precipitous-
mountain slopes. To-day wherever it is possible to accumulate
soil and raise a wall this is certain to be done by tbe occupier of
tbe land,even though tbe return is unlikely to be commensurate
with tbe time and toil expended. But then, according to tbe
system of tenure universal in tbe island, a landlord is unable te
eject a tenant without first of all compensating bim for all
so-called improvements—^wbicb, by tbe way, do not include
actual buildings erected—that tbe tenant has made upon
bis patch of land. These bemfeitorias or improvements are
valued by Government officials, who invariably lean to tbe side
of tbe tenant and estimate them at a high value. Tbe conse-
<^uence is that tbe more soil a tenant heaps up and tbe more
walls be raises on bis small plot of ground tbe more cei'tain is
be of never being turned off it, for in time these erections, to-
which tbe peasant and bis family devote all their leisure,
whether likely to prove advantageous or not, often exceed tbe
land itself in value. At tbe present time there must be manj
hundreds of miles of these substantial terraced walls throughout
tbe island.
   Eent in kind is tbe rule in Madeira. Tbe tenant tills, plants,
and manures tbe soil, gathers in tbe crop, which, if wheat, be
threshes; if sugar-cane, be extracts tbe saccharine; and if
grapes, be presses, giving up one-half of tbe produce to tbe
     The Vines,their Cultivation, and Chief Vineyard Districts. 177

 landlord as rent, after the G-overnment has taken its tithe. The
 half-produce of- corn, sugar, and wine is rigidly exacted by
 the landlord, but any vegetables gro-wn are commonly retained
 by the tenant,together -with the grass crop, although the land
 lord can demand half of the latter if he pleases.
     The tenant who resides on the land leased to him is called a
 ■caseiro, from the casa or house which he occupies, while, if he
 merely rents the land and does not reside on it, he is termed a
 meyro, from the meyo or half-produce that he has to give to his
 landlord. The latter is commonly the proprietor of nothing but
 the land—^buildings, embankments, walls, trees, vines, «&c.,
 belonging in nearly every instance to the tenant.
     The most important viticultural district of Madeira is, or
 rather was, Cama de Lobos, and one of its best vineyards was
 that of Torre Bella, belonging to Mr. Kussell Gordon, nearly all
 the vines of which, as already mentioned, have been destroyed
 by the phylloxera. On the mountain slopes to the west hes the
 Campanario district, not so important as Cama de Lobos as
 regards the quantity of wine it is capable of producing, but in
 my judgment yielding a wine of even higher character—less
 powerful, but altogether more refined in flavour and bouquet.
Fortunately, this district is at present untouched by the phyl
loxera.      vineyards under the cliffs at Cabo Girao and Pajaa
dos Padres also yield fine wines, but only in limited quantities.
The districts of Sao Martinho, Santo Antonio, Santo Amaro,
und Sao Joao, in the neighbourhood of Funchal, all produce
high-class wines. Of Mr. Leacock's vineyard at the latter place
Ihave already spoken, and no great distance from it is the
famous vineyard of the Bibeiro Secco, belonging until recently
to the Messrs. Davies, the well-known sherry shippers of Jerez.
The wine from this -vineyard, planted after its destruction by
oidium with vines principally of the prized palomino species
brought from Jerez for the purpose, enjoys a high repute, but
unfortunately many of the vines have been recently destroyed by
phylloxera, and sugar-canes have taken their place. On our way
to the vineyard we visited Mr. Eichard Davies's beautiful villa
                                                            M
178           Tlie Vineyards and Wines of Madeira.

and gardens in the outskirts of Funchal, known as the Vigia,
and one.of the show-places of Madeira. The villa is commonly
in the occupation of some distinguished tenant, the Empress of
Austria and the late Lord Brownlow having hoth of them
resided there for several years. It was huilt and its grounds
were laid out by the late Mr. Kichard Davies, of whose ability
and enterprise much is still heard at Ermchal. The heantifuUy-
arranged gardens of the Vigia, which extend to the verge of the
cliff, and overlook the hay and town of Eunchal, abound with
splendid specimens of tropical vegetation and rare trees, shrubs,
and flowers, imported,regardless of expense, from Europe,hTorth
and South America, and Australasia.
      Water being exceedingly scarce and consequently exception
ally valuable in Madeira, crops that require irrigation are rarely
cultivated by the peasants. Water is collected from springs
and rivulets in the mountains, whence it is conducted along
the sides of perpendicular cliffs, flowing sometimes through
wooden pipes suspended overhead, and sometimes through
channels cut through the solid rock and lying at one's feet.
The right to a supply of water is confii-med by title-deeds,
which specify the intervals at which the supply shall be given
and the length of time it shall continue. At the period of
our visit we heard of a full levada, as it is called, comprising a
cubic foot of water, flowing continuously for twelve hours once a
fortnight, being valued at d£80 per annum,and,indeed,a quarter
of this supply was really sold for one-fourth of the above amotmt.
As the water is continuously flowing it happens that many of
those entitled to it receive their supply at most unseasonable
hours. Of an evening one constantly sees lights moving about
the mountains and hears the levadeiros blowing into a shell,
emitting much the same sound as a horn, to notify to small
occupiers that their turn for a supply of water has come round.
Should they disregard this notice the chances are they will be
deprived of their supply. The above refei's exclusively to water
for irrigation and ordinary use, drinking water being supphed
through a tube of the circumference of a quill pen.
                        A HADEIEA BTILIOCK-OAE.


   IV. FimcHAL, AND SOME Famods W ine-Stoees THERE.
The Madeira Capital Its Aspect on Shore and as Viewed from the Sea—The
     Armazens or Wine-Stores of Messrs. Cossart, Gordon, and Co ^Their
    Serrado Stores—The Cooperage—A Store Swept Away by Winter Hoods
   —Trellised Vines afford Shade inallthe Open Spaces-The Treatment which
   the Mosto or newly-made Wine nndergoes-Cossart, Gordon, and Co.'s
    Estufa Stores Treatment of Madeii-a with Artificial or Natural Heat
    Mode of Proceeding foUowed in the Estufa—The Pateo Stores of Cos
    sart, Gordon, and Co., and some of the remarkable Wines contained in
    them—Stock of Madeira held by the Pirm.
    One of tlie most disappointing tMngs in Madeira is its
capital. Picturesque as it may appear from the sea, on shore
its aspect is the reverse of inviting. Its pra9a is a shabby affair
with commonplace surroundings,among which are a dilapidated-
looking hospital and the town prison. The Palacio de Sao
Iioren90, in which the civil and military governors reside, is an
unattractive, semi-castellated building,painted a lively yellow ^
evidently with a view to render it more imposing. The theatre
is converted into a wine-store, while as regards shops, the
Magasins du Louvre of the Madeirense capital are mere ranges
of dingy stores where common textile fabrics are vended at
180         Tlie Yineyards and Wines of Madeira.

exorbitant prices. As for articles de luxe, one never sees tbem
displayed; and tbe only stops boasting of embellisbment are
tbose of tbe cbemists.     Tbe Puncbal streets are invariably
narrow and paved witb small round stones, most difficult to
walk upon: bow Engbsb and Portuguese ladies in tbe fashion
able bigb-beeled sboes manage to accomplish it is a mystery.
Flagstones, excepting at tbe corner of one little street, are
entirely unknown to Funcbal.
     Viewed from tbe bay, Puncbal presents a more attractive
aspect. It seems to nestle cosily by tbe seashore, under tbe
shade of lofty cloud-capped, mountains, whose slopes and ravines,
cultivated in every available spot, are dotted witb cool surnmer
 residences sequestered in charming pleasure-grounds. Eight
 and left of tbe town are some old forts,which a single shot from an
 ironclad would shiver into fragments. Close to a refreshing patch
 of green formed by the trees on the Pra9a da Constituicao is the
 palacio abready mentioned, while, behind, the dwarfed cathedral
spire peers timidly above the surrounding houses. The antique
and massive-looking custom-house faces the beach, from the
centre of which there rises—with the seeming arrogance of a
 Cleopatra's Needle or a Trajan's Column—a solitary, gigantic,
 dingy-looking piUar, erected many years ago by an Englishman
 of an enterprising turn, but utterly ignorant of engineering,
 who thought he had invented a new method of unloading ships,
 of which this singular construction is to-day the sole memorial.
 In the Pra9a da Constituicao and the thoroughfares leading to
 the beach there is no dearth of animation during early morning.
 On the beach itself crowds await the arrival of returning fisher-
 boats,while in thestreets—whatwith the traffic of bullock cars and
 sledges ; the noisy injunctions of the drivers to their imper
 turbable cattle ; the quaintly-attired peasants arriving from the
 outlying districts; parties of boracheiros with skins of newly-
 made mosto slung over their backs, and kept steady with a
 strap across their foreheads ; hammock-bearers starting moun-
 tainwards with casual tourists; babbling gossips debating over
 the local news at every corner, and hawkers lolling against the
         Funchal, and some Famous Wine-Stores there.          181

walls or seated on tlie doorsteps wliile displaying tlieir varied
wares—tlie scene is full of life.   The streets are mostly narrow,
and the houses, as a rule, low. Whitewash is liberally applied
to their fa9ades, which are set off with bright green shutters
and balconies. Among the native population there appears to be
but little social intercourse,the agreeable evening paseo common
to the towns of Southern Spain being here unknown. The small
stipend of the civil and military governors forbids their enter
taining the Madeirense magnates, while as regards the theatre
we have already explained that there is none. With the exception,
therefore, of an occasional ball, the only opportunities for ladies
to display their toilettes de soiree are when a British man-of-war
happens to come into port, and one or other of the leading
shippers invites the officers to a dinner and a dance.
    The first armazens or wine-stores which I visited at Bunchal
were those of Messrs. Cossart, Gordon, and Co., the largest and
oldest wine-shipping house in Madeira, its estabhshment dating
from the year 1745. Their stores comprise three distinct sets
of buildings, known respectively as the Serrado, Estufa, and
Pateo armazens, all situate within five minutes' walk of each
other.
    The ground on which the Serrado stores stand comprises
between four and five acres, with annazens of a single story
occupying three of its sides, the cooperage being on the
fourth. Here we observed casks being made in precisely the
same fashion as is followed at Jerez, with the exception,perhaps,
that the adze which the men handle so dexterously is a trifle
heavier and clumsier than the one used by theh Jerez brethren.
The Funchal coopers work by the piece, and each pipe, which is
certainly a well-made article, costs something hke a couple of
poimds. Eound about the cooperage were piles of American
oak staves, already trimmed or in the rough, while in the centre
of the plot of ground were sheds in which the casks are
measured, branded, scalded,and steamed, together with a couple
of large tanks. The vacant space between the sheds and the
stores is occupied with rows of casks of various sizes, fresh from
  182          The Vineyards and Wines of Madeira.

  tlie cooperage, and undergoing a seasoning with water. When
  this is completed the casks are transferred to the armazem de
  Avinhar, there to he filled with common wine, which remains in
  them for two or three months. In these stores there are always
  in use for this purpose from eighty to a hundred pipes of wine,
  which after frequent employment is no longer suitable, and is
  distnied into spirit. In the rear of the cooperage is a dried-up
 watercourse, a steep ravine some forty feet deep, which inter
 sects the town of Punchal, and is mostly bordered by an avenue
 of shady plane-trees. During winter the water rushes down here
 from the mountains, bringing with it huge boulders fully a ton
 in weight, and sweeping away whatever it encounters in its pro
 gress. In the year 1803 the rushing torrent oveirflowed the
 steep banks of the ravine, carrying away a store of Cossart,
 Doi'don, and Co.'s, which had been erected at the verge,together
 with several hundred pipes of wine, all of which were lost.
 The same flood swept away the British Consulate (some distance
 lower down) and a church, not to speak of other damage.
    All the unoccupied ground at these Serrado stores is planted
 with vines trained in corridors, interspersed here and there with
 a mango, fig, or custard apple-tree. TreUised vines, moreover,
cover in all the walks in front of the various stores, enabling
the men employed in them to be always under shade. The first
store which we visited—a long narrow building some three hun
dred feet in length, with square grated openings along its front
to allow of the free admission of air—is capable of holding six
hundred pipes, in triple rows of two tiers each. It is used for
receiving"vinho em mosto," or newly-made wine. Scarlet gera
niums about a man's height are trained aU over its front, and
■under the broad canopy of trellised vines—stretching from the
roof of the store to that of the opposite shed—empty casks
waiting to be " wined" are stowed away.
   It is a common practice with the Madeira wine shippers to
purchase the produce of a vineyard before the grapes are
pressed, in which case they either send some one specially, or
appoint an agent residing in the locality, to see that the grapes
                            -^^irn^^'-^.'   . ._-iv..rh*.'
p.
                                              M
THE ARIIAZENS AND COOPERAGE OP MESSRS. COSSART, GORDON, & CO. AT FUNCHAL, MADEIK-\.
                                                                              {/>. iS,.)
                                                           't




Jferf: ■ •




       Ri!i»;M<fewViiAi^>:jt''au>>.'.^-i....   ...Iv!. -        J
         Funclval, and some Famous Wine-Stores there.         183

are not gathered until they are ripe ; that the work in the lagar
is properly done; and to arrange for the transport of the niosto
to their Funchal wine-stores.    There the mosto continues fer
menting, with the bunghole of each cask simply covered over with
a fig-leaf, generally until the middle of November. Either before
or after the fermentation a small quantity of brandy is added,
varying in quantity according to the quality of the mosto, but
seldom exceeding three per cent. When the wine has thoroughly
cleared itself it is racked and lotted according to its quality,
and afterwards foi-warded to the estufa or heating magazine: a
specialty with regard to the wines of Madeira of which I shall
presently speak. In face of the store where the mosto is re
ceived is a store for brandy ; and thence we proceed under the
vine-covered corridors to other stores containing wines a year
old,just arrived from the estufa—wines which, after having re
ceived a further modicum of spirit (varying from one to three
gallons per pipe), were undergoing racking and fining prepara
tory to being passed on to the Pateo stores of the firm. There
they will remain in butts holdiug 400 gallons each, until fully
matured for shipment. It should be noted that the mosto is
fermented and the wine heated, racked, and passed fi-om one
store to another in what are termed canteiro or scantling pipes,
each holding 130 gallons, old wine measure.
   The Estufa stores of Messrs. Cossart, G-ordon, and Co. com
prise a block of buildings of two stories, divided into four distinct
compartments. In the first of these common wines are subjected
to a temperatui'e of 140 deg. Eahi-enheit—derived from flues,
heated with anthracite coal—for the space of three months. In
the next compartment wines of an intermediate quality are
heated up to 180 deg. for a period of four and a-half months ;
while the third is set apart for superior wines, heated variously
from 110 to 120 deg. for the term of six months. The fourth com
partment, known as the"Calor," possesses no flues, but-derives
its heat, varying from 90 to 100 deg., exclusively from the com
partments adjacent; and here only high-class wines are placed.
The object of this heating of the wine is to destroy whatever
  184          The Vineyards and Wines of Madeira.

  germs of fermentation still remain in it, and to mature it tlie more-
  rapidly in order that it may be shipped in its second and third
  year without any further addition of spirit. The use of these
  estufas in Madeira dates from the.commencement of the present
 century, and the great bulk ofthe wine undergoes this or a simi
 lar mode of treatment previously to its being shipped. These
 artificially-heated estufas are only used by the larger shipping
 houses, who, however, heat wine in them for other shippers at a
 stated rate. Others accomplish the desired object by placing
 their wines in a kind of glass-house, where they remain exposed
 to the fuU heat of the sun. In the daytime a temperature of
 from 120 to 130 deg. is secured, which, however, becomes con
 siderably lowered during the night—a circumstance which is-
 regarded by many as detrimental to the develoj)ment of the
 wine. In the country districts where estufas in no form exist,
 the holders of wine place the butts out in the open air in favour
 able positions to secure the full influence of the sun's rays. The
 practice prevalent for many years past of sending Madeira on a
 voyage to the East or West Indies and home again is simply a
 variation of this method of maturing the wine by subjecting it to
 a high degree of temperature, the heat which it encounters in,
 these latitudes when shut up in the ship's hold being necessaiily
very great.
    In the estufas I am now describing—which, if packed full,
are capable of heating 1,600 pipes of wine at one time—the pipes-
are placed on end in stacks offour, with smaller casks on the top
of them, a narrow gangway being left between the difEerent
stacks to admit of the passage of a man for the pui-pose of
ascertaining that the casks do not leak, as when subjected to-
great heat they are naturally inclined to do. A hole about
the sixth of an inch in diameter has been previously bored in
the bung of each pipe to allow the hot vapour to escape,otherwise
the pipe would burst. As it is, the casks not unfrequently leak,
as we perceive by numerous dull patches in various parts of the-
floor, rendering it necessary for the different compartments of
the estufa to be inspected once during the daytime and once-
MESSRS. COSSART, GORDON, & CO.'S ESTUEAS,
                                            (/• J?4-)
                  m
            . -




hf'AV«® '   I'




                  ■' I'l
         Funclial, and some Famous Wine-Stores there.          185>

during the night, in order that any mishap of this kind may he
at once rectified. Each compartment is provided with double-
folding-doors, and after it is filled with wine the inner doors are-
coated over with lime, so as to close up any chance apertures..
 When it is necessary to enter the estufa the outer doors only
are opened, and a small trap in the inner door is pushed hack to-
allow of the entrance of the man in charge, who passes between
the various stacks of casks, tapping them one after the other to-
satisfy himself that no leakage is going on.. On coming out of
the estufa, after a stay of a full hour, he instantly wraps himself"
in a blanket, drinks a tumblerful of wine, and then shuts him
self up in a closet, into which no cool air penetrates, provided
for the purpose. Messrs. Cossart, Gordon, and Co. usually
place their wines in the estufa during the months of January
and February, which admits of their removal to other stores;
before the next vintage commences. During the time they are
in the estufa they diminish some 10 to 15 per cent, through the-
evaporation of their aqueous parts.
    There still remain the Pateo stores to be noticed. These are-
situate in the rear of the counting-house of the finn, where all
the books and papers relating to its transactions since its first
establishment are carefully preserved. Passing beneath an
archway and across a narrow coui*t planted with flowers, among-
which are gei-aniums trained level with the first-floor windows,,
we enter a small store,formiug a kind of ante-room to the stores
which follow. The first of these contains wines in butts holding
four pipes each, in perfect condition for shipment, and only
needing to be drawn off. Here we tasted a few specialties,,
including some Branco secco, made exclusively from the ver-
delho species of grape, which, having been peifectly fermented,,
possessed all the qualities of a remarkably fine dry Madeira
also some Sercial from Ponta do Pargo, of vintage 1865, ex
ceedingly dry and clean-tasting, and slightly pale. In the store-
above were wines of difierent qualities and ages, including some
Palhetinho, or straw-coloured wine, delicate in flavour and with
a fine bouquet; also several still paler wines, going under the
186         Tlie Vineyards and Wines of Madeira.

Yankee cognomen of Rainwater Madeira, on acconnt of their
remarkable softness and delicacy. Here also were stored a
vintage wine of 1863—a Yinho do Sol, as it was called, from its
having been matured by exposure to the sun, and never having
passed through the estufa—and finally a pale, delicate Malmsey
of the preceding year's vintage, with a highly-developed bouquet,
which promised to become a wine of singularly choice character.
    In the armazem de Vinhos Velhissimos—the ground-floor
range of building on the southern side of the courtyard—were
some large butts containing reserve wine of great age and
numerous soleras, including a Cama de Lobos, the origin of
which dates back to 1844—a deep-coloured, powerful wine of
fine high flavour, replenished from time to time by wine from
the bastardo variety of grape. A Sao Martinho solera, dating
from the year 1842, was a soft choice wine with fine bouquet,
while a Bual solera going back to the year 1882 proved remark
ably delicate in flavour. There were also a couple of Malmsey
soleras founded respectively in the years 1885 and 1850, the
former of which had all the qualities of a choice liqueur;
together with a butt of Verdelho vintage wine of the year 1851,
which had never been exposed to artificial heat: a sound mellow
wine of the highest character. At the end of this solera store
is a store containing Surdo or sweet wine, and Vinho Concertado
or boiled mosto, thinned by the addition of some ordinary wine,
and which, like the Jerez vino dulce and vino de color, are used
for flavouring and colouring wines of inferior quality. Proceed
ing through the arched passage leading into the little garden,
planted with bananas, rose-trees, and geraniums, and having
vines trained in corridors over the walks, we came upon another
store containing wines of the years 1874 and 1875, from the
north side of the island, which, without the high character of
Madeira proper, are light and agreeable to drink,and are shipped
at what appears to be a very moderate price. In their Pateo
■stores alone Messrs. Cossart, G-ordon, and Co. had upwards of
a couple of thousand pipes of wine, thirteen hundred of which
were in a condition for shipment.
                                                                                                  il
         '~i"T ''••''''tiiitllfftBrinTr'ritiiiii   •■ ■ '■ '
                                                                                   ^w« y.xj A      T
IHE AR-MAZEil DOS VINHOS VJiLHISSIlIOS OF MESSRS. COSSART, GORDON, & CO. AT FUNCHAL.
                                                                                       (A iSo.}
A".'



                     ' .T
                         I
                     .   >




            ' M "•
            f

            > 'h




M      t»
      lAinDINa CASKS OP WINK PEOM THE NOETH SIDE OP THE ISEAM).


             V.—Some otheb Punchal Wine-Stoees.
 The Stores and Bstufus of Messrs. Krohu Brothers in the Carmo quarter—
     Animated Scene presented there—Boracheiros Delivering Skins of Mosto
     —The Finer Wines of the Firm—Their Royal and Impei-ial Customers—
     Barge Stock of Madeh-a in the Forty Stores owned by Messrs. Blandy
     Brothers —The Rare and Old Wines of the Firm—An Archaic Curiosity—
     The Old-Established Finn of Leacock and Company—^An objection to
     Furnishing Food to the Fishes—Leacock and Co.'s Stores and Wines—
     The Stores of Henry Dru Drnry, late Rutherford, Drury, and Co.—
     Some Venerable Nuns—Mr. H. D. Drury's more remarkable Wines—
     The Stores of Hem-iques and Lawton,formerly the Mansion of a Lady of
     Rank—A Lengthy and Expensive Lawsuit—Cama de Lobes and other
     line Madeiras of the Firm—Their Estufas—Messrs. Welsh's Stores—The
     Delicate Wines shown us at the Stores of Messrs. R. Donaldson and Co.—
    The Stores and Wines of Meyrelles Sobriuho e Cia., Henrique J. M.
    Camacho, Viuva Abudarham e Filhos, Augosto C. BiancLi, Cunha, Leal
    Irmaos e Cia., and Leitao—The Madeira Vintage—The Produce greatly in
    excess of the Demand—Cause of Madeira going out of Fashion—Large
    Stocks of Good Wine at present in the Island—Its Moderate Price.
    A EiEM that occupies high rank on the Madeha shipping list is
that of Erohn Brothers and Co., whose offices, armazens,and es-
188          Tlie Vineyards and Wines of Madeira.

ttifas are situate close together in the quarter of Punchal known
as the Carmo. In front of the spacious house where the counting-
house is installed—a lofty building with tall central tower and
overhanging roof, with the customary iron bars to all its lower
windows and ornamental balconies to those above—a low archway
leads into a paved courtyard, where a couple of bullock-sledges
stand waiting in the shade to convey some pipes of wine to the
beach. Facing the doorway,out of which the pipes are being roUed,
are the estufas of the firm, a compact two-storied building sur
mounted by a capacious compartment with iron sides and roof.
This is the Estufa do Sol,in which sixty pipes of wine can be sub
mitted to the influence of the sun's rays at one time. In the two
stories of the estufa proper, the upper one of which is entered
from the rear—where, owing to the sloping character of the
ground, it is on a level with the courtyard—some 500 pipes can
be stacked, and matured by means of artificial heat, derived, as
already explained, from flues passing round the interior of
the building. Near the estufa is a small structure containing
the packers' implements for the shipping of samples, the brand
ing-irons, and so forth. The furnace itself abuts upon the cool
shady cooperage on the right hand. Under a large shed in the
rear of the establishment, and close to an umbrageous garden,
casks of every size, from pipes to octaves, are piled in tiers.
Casks are being measured by means of a small tank furmshed
with an indicator, and close at hand barefooted men in long
blouses are cleaning casks, wdth a number of small round stones
in them, by rolling them backwards and forwards with a jerky
movement along two stout beams.
   In the armazem immediately facing the estufas are found
Messrs. Krohn Brothers and Co.'s cheapest wines—flight clean
Madeiras ranging from.£26 to £30 a pipe—stored on the topmost
floor; while on the floor below trabalhadores in the customai-y
long blouses are preparing a shipment of a full, soft-flavoured,
dryish wine for the Dutch market,drawing off the liquor in largo
copper jars. These long blouses,common to the workmen in the
Funchal wine-stores, are furnished by the employers, who by this
               Some other Funchal Wine-Stores.                189


means escaped a rise of wages demanded on the plea of great
wear and tear of clothing. On the ground floor of this store
are butts of brandy, and wines fresh from the estufa waiting to
be flned previously to leaving for some spacious armazens
situated in an adjoining street. These latter comprise a ground
floor and two upper stories, each forming a vast apartment
lighted by large windows at either end, and with rows of stone
pillars dividing it into three aisles. Here the firm receives its
purchases of mosto, which are deposited in the store on the
ground floor of the building.
    On the occasion of our visit we found a gang of sweltering
boracheiros delivering skins of mosto, which they had that
morning brought down from the mountains. As these were
beiQcr emptied into the pipes, a store clerk now and then mea
sured off the contents of a certain number of them, chosen at
random, and tested the amount of saccharine by means of a
saccharometer, in order to satisfy himself that each skin con
tained its full baril, equal to between nine and ten gallons, and
that the mosto had not been tampered with e?i route. The price
of the mosto ranged from IBs. to 21s. per baril—twelve barils
 being equivalent to a pipe. The more sturdy of these boracheiros
 during the height of the vintage will make two and even three
 journeys down from the mountains to the town and back again
 in the course of the day. In those rare parts of the island where
 the roads are good, mosto is brought down from the hills in casks
 on bullock-sledges. All the wine, however, grown on the north
 side comes in, not in the form of mosto, but, in the ensuing
 spring,as vinho em limpo,or fermented wine,by sea,when owing
 to there being no mole or pier at Funchal it is landed in a very
  primitive fashion. The boats anchor at some short distance
 from the shore, the casks are slung overboard, and man after
 man of the crew,after stripping and religiously crossing himself,
  plunges into the sea, and, placing his hands on a cask, swims
  behind it until he reaches the breakers, where the pipes are placed
  on cor9as and drawn up the steep beach. The year of our visit new
  wine from the north of the island realised from <£7 to £8 per pipe.
  190          TJie Vineyards and Wines of Madeira.

     On the first and second floors of the building of which we
 have been speaking wines of a lower and intermediate quality
 are stored, one of the best among them being a Verdelho fine of
 delicate flavour and pleasant aroma, with some young wines
 promising to develop into high-class Madeiras. After visiting
 sundry other stores, where miscellaneous parcels of wine are
 kept,including one newly rented for housing a portion of the firm's
 purchases of new mosto, we proceeded to the ancient armazem
 where Messrs. Erohn have their finer wines collected.         This
 venerable store is entered through a narrow paved court, and
the various floors, with the heavy burdens they are all required
to bear, are supported on sturdy rafters. The large butts have
little black tablets hanging to them indicating their contents-
 We tasted here an excellent dry and slightly pungent shipping
wine, then a sample which proved beautifully round and mellow,
next a wine both delicate and splendidly matured; also a straw-
coloured Verdelho fino, extremely soft and refined in flavour,
which had been heated up to a temperature of 120 deg., and
had had no more than 4 per cent, of spirit added to it. This
wine is shipped principally to Scotland, France, and Eussia,
being known in the latter country under the name of White
Madeira.
    We were subsequently shown some very dry Cama de Lobes,
vintage 1874, which after being six months in an ordinary estufa
at 120 deg. had passed another four months in the sun. This was
followed by a Cama de Lobos of 1868, a powerful, sub-pungent
and aromatic wine, with vinho velhissimo from the same locality,
very strong, yet wonderfully soft, which had developed an ex
quisite bouquet and a slightly nutty flavour. This wine was
thirty-nine years old, and had been acquired by the firm some
eight years ago at nearly ^200 a pipe. Some reserve wine
proved alike dry and soft, with an agreeable sub-pungency of
flavour and a flne vinous bouquet. Among other wines we noted
some deep-coloured old Malmsey,with a Tinta of the year 1869 i
and, above all, a deliciously soft and slightly sweet Bual, with a
very fragrant bouquet—a wine which the King of Bavaria is
                                                                 rm
mim
H
        0
                                                                         Pso.ytts   M'i'Ker
    INTERIOR OF THE ARMAZEM OF MESSRS. KROHN BROTHERS AT FUNCHAL, MADEIRA.
                                                                             {p. 190.)
'iv-yr
'   V''' '




             ■ ■ "h
     'I \ ■




Si
THE AKMAZEXS OF MESSRS. BLANDY BROTHERS AT FUNCHAL, MADEIRA.
                                                               (/. loi.)
               Some other Funchal Wine-Stores.              191


never vritlioat a stock of. Another royal customer of the firm
for high-class Madeiras is the Czarewitch.
 .. The largest stock of Madeira held by any shipping house in
T'unchal is that belonging to Messrs.Blandy Brothers. It amounts
to some 5,000 pipes, varying in value from £06 to <£250 each,,
and "was accumulated by the late Mr. Charles E. Blandy,
subsequent to the destruction of the Madeira vineyards in 1852.
These wines—which include some remarkable examples and a
great variety of growths, preserved distinct both as to loeahty
of production and the year of vintage—are contained in no
fewer than forty stores, connected by passages, staircases, plat
form landings,and doorways pierced through massive stone walls-
   You pass out of the oflices in the Eua Sao Francisco—a
street running in the direction of the sea—^into a small court
yard surrounded by quaint irregular buildings, the ground-floor
of one of which is the ancient store in which the most venerable
wines of the firm are collected. It is a long, dim apartment,
lighted by small square windows protected by iron bars, and
paved with flagstones. Here, ranged in rows, are some thirty
or forty huge butts, all more or less antique-looking, and many
bearing the brands of once-famous Madeira firms, now defunct,
whose stocks are stiU represented here. Each of these butts
holds from 620 to 670 gallons; and they all contain wines of
rare flavour and aroma, although generally too concentrated
and too powerfid to be drunk by themselves, their chief value
being to give character to younger growths. We tasted here,
among other samples, a blended Cama de Lobos of great vinosity
and pleasant subdued pungency of flavour; a powerful choice
old Eeserve from the same district, the solera of which was
founded as far back as 1792 ; a fine old concentrated wine from
the Torre Bella "rtneyard, marvellously round and soft; a
remarkable Sercial, "vintaged half a centmy ago, and to-day
emitting a wonderful aroma, and having a marked though
pleasant pimgent flavour. During the first twenty years of its
life this wine, we wer-e told, was far too harsh to be at all
palatable. Another venerable wine was a Malvasia velhissimo,
192          The Vineyards and Wines of Madeira.

 a Malmsey of exceeding softness combined mtb a seductive
;sub-bitterne8S of flavour. Adjoining this veritable vinous
 museum there formerly stood the old theatre of Funchal, which
Mr. Charles R. Blandy acquired and converted into a wine-
store. Here a series of wide arches leads into a succession of
■courtyards girt round with buildings filled with pipes upon
pipes of wine. In the old theatre, where wines in double pipes
■are stored, trabalhadores were busy fining wines with white of
egg, while in a bind of open store a blend of fifty pipes was
being made. This blend, which indicated an average age of
■eight years, proved an agreeable and not over-spirituous wine,
 with a slight sub-pungent flavour, and fairly brilliant in colour
■although it had not been fined. From here a staircase leads to
a platform above, where an apparatus for raising and lowering
casks is installed, and whence access is gained to several roomy
■^stores, each containing two or three hundred pipes. In one of
these the casks were ranged in five separate rows,andinanoth3r,
the floor of which rested on solid masonry supports, the pipes
were placed one above the other. Here were some of the pleasant
/light northern growths, which, unlike the wines vintaged on the
■south side of the island, occasionally develop the mycoderma
vina, or so-called flowers of wine, so anxiously watched for and
valued by the rearers of sherry. You pass on through a suc
cession of stores, connected by numerous courts or landings—
like so many Clapham Junctions—in which vintage wines
ranging from 1865 to 1876 are contained. Here we tasted a
Cama de Lobos, 1868, which had received merely two gallons of
■spirit, and had been matured in a warm store at a temperature
of 95 deg. ; also, a Sao Martinho of 1870, an excellent wine of
medium dryness, together with a Ponta Delgado of 1872, com
bining a pleasant dryness with remarkable softness. On a sub
sequent occasion we had the satisfaction of tasting some Porto
da Cruz, vintaged in 1829 and bottled in 1842, of remarkable
bghtness and delicacy of flavour, together with a rare vinous
 Sao Martinho Verdelho, boasting a wonderful perfume, and
■already more than half a century old. This was one of the
                                                                           i
                                             1^
INTERIOR OF THE ARMAZENS OF MESSRS, BLANDY BROTHERS AT FUNCHAL, MADEIRA.
                                                                       (A 192.)
               '1(1

          y.   jI




        '• ^ 4




'A.-.
                Some other FtmcJud Wine-Stores.                 i93


most perfect old Madeiras we ever tasted, far surpassing iu
flavoui", altliougli it failed to rival as a curiosity, a wine of the
year 1760, of which it is sufficient praise to say that, although
but a phantom of its former self, it had not in the slightest
•degree turned acid, as many another robust growth would have
•done at least half a century earlier.
    The finn of Leacock and Company was established more
.than a century and a quarter ago. The business has descended
from father to son through successive generations, and there
seems every prospect of its continuing to do so. This firm and
that of Cossait, Gordon, and Co. are the only two houses
remaining in Madeira who were members of the once-important
British factory, which had almost a monopoly of the wine trade
of the island, annually fixing the price to be paid for mosto
 purchased of the growers, as well as the prices at which wines
 were to be shipped. By levying a tax upon every pipe of wine
shipped by themselves they raised the necessary funds to make
 a cemetery in which British subjects might be decently interred;
 for at that time the bodies of all those who were not of the
 Eoman Cathohc faith were flung contumeliously into the sea.
 Before this cemetery was provided, a member of the factory,
 who had a strong prejudice to his dead body furnishing food to
 •the flshes, begged his partners to bury him when he died under
 his desk in their counting-house. This they secretly did, aud
 had the coffin which had been prepared for his corpse filled with
 stones and duly handed over to the authorities to be thrown
 into the sea. In a former chapter we described our visit to
 Mr. Leacock's vineyard and the intelligent system upon which
 we found it cultivated and its produce vintaged; and at his
 stores we had an opporturrity of tasting the wine grown by him.
 We found the 1873 vintage hght, dry, and fine-flavoured, while
 the 1872, being slightly more matured, was soft and delicately
 aromatic. A Sercial of 1848 was deep in colour, and dry and
  pungent in flavour; and a wine of 1834-5 had acquired a sin
  gular softness and delicacy, and proved much less spirituous
  than we expected to find it.
 194           The Vineyards and Wines of Madeira.

     The house of Henry Dru Drmy,formerly Rutherford, Drury,.
 and Co., was originally established in Madeira soon after the
 commencement of the present century. Its armazens, situated
 in the western quarter of Punchal, and entered up a narrow
 court, comprise a couple of large buildings, not much under 200
 feet in length, of two stories each, and connected on the first
floor by a wooden gallery arched over with trellises of vines left
 to grow at their own sweet will. On the one side mosto is
stored while it comi^letes its fermentation, while on the other are
the matmred and grand old wines of the firm, the latter being
kept by themselves in ancient-looking pipes on the upper floor-
The cooperage is in the rear of the stores,adjoining a small plot
of vines from which the firm vintage a few pipes of wine. This
little vineyard is bounded on one side by an old nunnery in which
seven venerable nuns—the youngest being aged about seventy—■
 were installed at the time of our visit.   The suppression of con
ventual establishments having been decreed by the Portuguese
legislature, additions are no longer made to the venerable sis
terhood. At Mr. Henry Dru Drury's stores we tasted a powerful
Cama de Lobos wine of 1874 which had never been to the estufa,
and one of the year 1870 which had been matured by exposure
to the sun; also a delicate and fresh-tasting Dual of 1876,a
splendid Campanario with fine bouquet, pale in colour, soft,
slightly sweet, but of remarkably fine flavour. In our judg
ment the best Campanario growths surpass the more powerful
 and more generally prized Cama de Lobos vintages by reason of
their greater delicacy of flavour and more fragrant bouquet.
The older wines comprised a Sercial of 1820, with a powerful
bouquet and a dry but scarcely pungent flavour; a Bual of
about the same age exceedingly pungent and powerful—an
essence of wine, so to speak; and some deep-tinted luscious
Malmsey of the same period. We further tasted some wines
the casks of which were marked " Koda" to indicate that they
had voyaged either to the East or West Indies and home again.
They were not particularly deep in colour, but remarkably
powerful, and with that indefinable flavour which Madeira.
INTERIOR OF THE ARMAZEM OF MR; H. DRU DRURY AT FUNCHAL, MADEIRA.   (A I94-)
                         .1   ■   id           >   ■

                        'I            -                ..

                ■             V' ■ ;■ ■ '
                 . *   1- "V' i''         "

\-.r   ■■                                 'j                                •:«ii
                                                                                    > ,vt
                                                                                          '*

            ■                     ,                •    •   •   •   , .?«      r-in"



                                                                                1   .1.




                                                                                t
                  Some other Funchal Wine-Stores.              195


  acquires after being subjected to the combined beat and motion
  of a voyage to tbe tropics in a ship's hold.
      Messrs. Henriques and Lawton have their stock of Madeiras
  stored in an ancient, incomplete, semi-palatial-looking building,
  erected by a Portuguese lady of rank, and abandoned by her
  spendthrift son, who before disposing of the house stripped it of
 everything that could be removed, such as the carved woodwork
 and other decorative adjuncts,leaving nothing but the bare carcass
 of the building. However, it now forms a very compact range
 of armazens, in which a large quantity of wine, including many
 choice varieties, is stored. The firm was originally established
 in Madeira in the year 1757 under the style of Murdoch,
 Shortridge, and Co. Rather more than half a century ago—
 namely, 1826—the then members of the firm had the ill-luck to
 get entangled in a lawsuit with some disputatious Portuguese.
 The suit dragged on through the various courts, and finally led
 to a breach of treaty rights, and the English and Portuguese
 G-overnments, unable to come to an agreement, referred the
 entire affair to the Hamburg Senate, after a Select Committee of
the House of Commons had investigated and reported very deci
dedly iu Messrs. Murdoch and Co.'s favour. In 1862, six-and-
thirty years after the suit originally commenced, the arbitrators
awarded .£20,260 as damages to the English firm; but their
costs and losses in connection with the affair amounted by this
time to nearly £50,000, so that although they eventually had
some kind ofjustice done them, it was at an immense pecuniary
sacrifice.
    At Messrs. Henriques and Lawton's we passed through a
dilapidated porte-cochere, with tall stone pillars on either side,
into a spacious paved courtyard, where the dismantled mansion
reared its massive fa9ade, pierced with numerous large orna
mental windows, on our left hand, and a lower range of stores,
partially overgrown with vines, rose up in front. Through the
house a second paved court is reached, roofed in with leafy vines
trained in corridors, beneath the shade of which numerous
coopers are at work. The estufas of the firm, which include an
196          The Vineyards and Wines of Madeira.

estufa warmed by artificial beat and an estufa do sol, deriving
its wanntb, as its name impbes, exclusively from the sun, and
the two holding together 350 pipes, are situated in another part
of the town in full view of the open sea.
    We tasted at Messrs. Henriques and Lawton's stores
numerous fine wines, going through the customary scale of
Cama de Lohos, a series of vintages of the highest character.
We then were shown, some dry and aromatic Santo-Antonios,
aged six, seven, and nine years respectively; a pungent light-
coloured wine, formed by the blending of a Sao Eoque and a
Sercial five years old; a Sercial, aged twelve years, a great
wine in full perfection; some rich oily Bual of 1872—too sweet,
however, to be drunk excepting as a dessert wine; with a
venerable Malmsey, vintaged forty-five years ago, of ruby
brightness and rich liqueur-like flavour, and possessing an
admirable bouquet. Five per cent, is the largest amount of
spirit which Senhor Henriques adds to wines vintaged on the
south side of the island, while wines from the north receive a
slightly larger quantity. This spirit is invariably added by
degrees. As in all the other Punchal stores, the pipes here
remain with a vacuum equivalent to ten or a dozen gallons,
which is somewhat less than the Jerez shippers allow in a butt
of sherry. The yearly loss fi-om evaporation averages about
5 per cent., which, of course, tends to increase the alcoholic
strength of the wine; still, Madeira is shipped at an average
 strength of 82 degrees of proof spirit.
      In one of the principal streets of Funchal, known as the
 Oxford-street oftheMaderiense capital—a long narrow thorough
 fare bordered with glaring white houses with green shutters and
 balconies, of much the same character as those met with through
 out Southern Spain—Messrs.Welsh have their stores. We pass
 through a broad gateway, up a long passage, into a charmingly
 cool garden gay with flowers and bright green foliage, and
 with shady walks roofed in with trellised corridors of vines.
 To the right are the stores, the counterpart of a Jerez bodega,
 long,lofty, and well ventilated, with four lines of casks,stretching
                                                     I
U
       .VZEM AND COOPERAGE OF MESSRS. HENRIQU>=,S. LAW ION, Sc CO. AT PUNCH.\.L. MADE^RA.^
THE ARM.
                             t




                                       ' * 'ij
                                       ' ■' ■ ',4




                                 •tt




 ■ . '1   ,1- W   1 ;

' ''         I




iyi.'     ■''<          '■
               Some other Funchal Wine-Stores.               197

from one end to the other, nearly the whole of them filled
with the better sort of wines.   Before the time of the oidium
the firm did a very large business in cheap light Madeiras, at as
low a price as <£12 and <£15 a pipe; and in 1849 succeeded in
raising itself to the head of the Madefra shipping list. Now,
however, it cares less for business in the cheaper wines, and
confines itself almost exclusively to shipping the more costly
growths, sending the latter largely in bottle to the United States
and other markets. The Messrs. Welsh prefer to mature their
wines in the estufas do sol rather than in those artificially
heated.
   Another English shipping house, Messrs. E. Donaldson and
Co., ships only high-class wines matured by natural in prefei'ence
to artificial heat,, or, better than all, ripened by time. In the
airy and capacious stores of the firm we found Cama de Lobos
of 1872 and 1866, the latter a high-flavoured yet delicate wine,
and beautifully soft and aromatic ; a Porta da Cruz of 1876 and
1872, the first entirely without added spirit, grapy alike in
flavour and bouquet, and the last, which had matured simply by
age, dry, light, and delicate, and possessing an agreeable fresh
ness. A blend composed of Sao Martinho and Santo Antonio
of the year 1872 was especially soft, with a very aromatic
bouquet; while a Sao Martinho of 1869-70 proved equally
delicate and fragrant. On the whole the wines of this firm were
exceedingly interesting.
   The largest of the native shipping houses at Eimchal is that
of Meyrelles, Sobrinho e Cia., in which Senhor Salles, whose
vineyard at Santo Antonio we have already described, is a
leading partner. The numerous stores of the firm are scattered
in different parts of the town. The central estabhshment is in
the vicinity of the cathedral, while another range of stores is
close to the palacio and facing the sea, and others, again, are
situated more in the centre of Punchal. The firm also possess
an estufa do sol, constructed of iron and glass, in which a tem
perature of 130 degrees is secured. Highly picturesque are the
ancient central stores with their rows of venerable butts filled
 198          The Vineyards and Wines of Madeira.

 witli grand old wines, and tlie improvised galleries running
 round the walls immediately under the blaclrened rafters, where
 wine of fabulous antiquity, in bottles covered with dust and
 wound round about with cobwebby festoons, is stowed away. To
 enumerate all the remarkable wines shown us at these stores is
 impossible; suffice it to say they comprised Cama de Lobos of
 different years, always full of character, sometimes even a little
 rich, though generally slightly pungent, and not unfrequently
 exceedingly potent. We remember, too, a delicate fine old
 Bual, an archaic Verdelho with some of the characteristics of a
liqueur, a Bastardo combining a cei'tain sweetness with pecuhar
freshness of flavour, a youthful and astringent Tinta, an aromatic
Malmsey of fabulous value, and a fragrant luscious Moscatel,
with other growths, which in flavour and bouquet ran through
all the keys of the gamut.
    Another Portuguese shipper, holding a considerable stock of
high-class Madeiras, is Senhor Henrique J. M. Camacho, who
matures his wines principally in an| estufa do sol perched
on the summit of one of his stores, and in which he obtains a
temperature of 150 deg. His exports are principally to England,
Portugal, Brazil, and the United States, and his venerable-
looking stores are situated in the western quarter of Eunchal.
Among the curiosities which we were invited to taste were some
very flne old Sao Martinhos, with a curious collection of high-
class Buals from Oama de Lobos, Campanario, and Santo
Antonio. Also a Ponta do Pargo from fifteen to twenty years
old, powerful yet refined in flavour, a rare Bastardo, and a
Malmsey—with a slight blend of Bual to give it character and
roundness—in which"false, fleeting, perjured Clarence" might
well have been content to drown. The firm of Viuva Abudarham
8 Pilhos has its stores in the old Eunchal Post Office, near Cossart,
Gordon, and Oo.'s principal establishment.         A lofty arched
gateway leads to the armazens, forming a couple of floors,
supported by a combination of massive arches and ponderous
beams. The Campanarios of this firm are of a high class. One
of 1871, which had been matured by six months' exposure to
                Some other Funchal Wine-Stores.               19&


"the sun, was remarkably fine in fiavour and possessed a peculiar
:and delicate bouquet. Their Cama de Lobos was also distin-
 ;guished for its bouquet, aud we were struck with a very soft old
  wine, the result of a slight blend of Malmsey with a fine Ver-
 ■delho. The firm does a considerable trade in bottled wines,
 principally with France and Germany.
     A large holder of fine wine in Funchal, who is not a shipper
 hut a partidista, to whom the shippers have recourse to replenish
 their stocks when these run low, is an Italian gentleman. Signer
 Augusto C. Bianchi. His stores jjartly overlook the Pra9a da
Constituicao. Here we made acquaintance with some rich Sao
Martinho of 1873 and 1874, from a vineyard belonging to Signer
Bianehi, matured exclusively by sun heat—soft, and with a very
fine aroma; a Bual from selected grapes from the same vineyard,
■very dehcate, but -with a slight sub-bitterness of flavour; a Bual
 from Campanario fifteen years old, rich and almost oily in
-character; together with some Verdelho palhetinho, pale in
-colour, as its name implies, and with a soft sub-bitter flavour.
In the stores adjoining Signor Bianchi's house, which, with its
•covered-in courtyard, whitewashed walls, curious arched en-
-trances, and small windows pierced here and there, had quite an
■Oriental aspect, we were sho'wn some exceedingly old and very
pungent Cama de Lobos, together •with a couple of samples of
vinho velhissimo, one extremely delicate and the other remark-
.ably potent.
    Senhor Cunha, who ships principally to England, Germany,
:and Kussia, has a series of particularly fine Verdelhos, ranging
 from 1857 to 1873; some dry delicate Sercials, more than a
quarter of a century old; a rich pungent Bual, already in its
thirtieth year; a younger wine of the same variety, with a soft
delicious flavour, and admirably adapted for a dessert wine;
with a Malmsey something like five-and-twenty years of age,
luscious and refined, and beautifully rounded. Leal Irmads e
Oia., whose principal stores are situated in the extreme eastern
•quarter of Funchal, have a considerable stock of both old and
joung growths, many of the former being of a high-class cha-
200         The Vineyards and Wines of Madeira.

racter. Among the more remarkable was a deep-coloui-ed and
l)owerfully aromatic old Yerdelho, vintaged at Sao Martinho^
and some luscious Moscatel from the landslip vineyard known
as the Pajaa do Mar,with several excellent wines from the upper
Cama de Lobos vineyards, and others from the north side of the-
island, which exhibited considerable robustness, and had been
reared without any addition of spirit. Senhor Leitao, formerly
director of the Funchal branch of the Bank of Portugal,and both
a vineyard proprietor and holder of large quantities of wine,had
his stock of Madeiras dispersed about the town in various stores,
most of which were antiquated buildings several stories in-
height, with decayed rafters and worm-eaten floors, that seemed
to yield under their weight of rows upon rows of pipes of wine,,
varied alike in age and character. Senhor Leitao's stock
amounted to little short of 2,000 pipes, the value of which was
between .£30,000 and ^640,000.
   The Madeira vintage in 1877, the year I visited the island,,
was estimated not to exceed 7,000 pipes, one-half of which,,
however, with due allowances for the unfavourable season, would
be first-class wine. This yield is about one-fourth less than the
average annual production of recent years, with the exception of
1876. The falling off was due partly to the phylloxera, but
more especially to the excessive dampness of the preceding
spring and summer, which caused much fruit to rot. Small as-
the yield was calculated to be, it would still be equivalent to-
double the annual shipments, although these have been steadily
increasing since the vineyards which suffered so severely fronr.
the oidium came into bearing again. Ninety years ago, the-
earhest date of which we have available records, Madeira used
to ship upwards of 10,000 pipes of wine annually. At the-
commencement of the present century this quantity had increased
to 17,000 pipes, and rose during the year 1813 to as many as
22,000. A variety of circumstances conduced to this result, of
which one was the general turbulent state of Europe and the
closing of certain -wine ports, and another the great consumption)
of the wine in the East and West Indies, whither it was sent im
               Some other Funchal Wine-Stores.               201


time of war •witli the periodical convoys. In the good old times-
fleets of -war-vessels, as -well as convoys of merchantmen, used
constantly to touch at Madeira and take in large supplies of
■wine, the orders for which the merchants often found it difficult
to execute during the short time the ships remained in port.
On these occasions it frequently happened that whilst the
merchants were entertaining the officers above stairs, and"
dancing was being kept up rmtil the small hours of the morning, ,
the clerks and cellarmen were as busy as bees down below
getting the required "wine ready, for shipment.
   It has been stated that the substitution of sherry for
Madeira by George IV. 'drove the latter wine out of fashion and
caused its greatly reduced consumption; but this can scarcely
have been the case, since it was not until the " First Gentleman
in Em-ope" had been interred in the Eoyal vault at Windsor
that any great falling off in the importation of Madeira occurred.
In 1842 the shipments of the-wine to England were under 1,000
pipes; and subsequently a severe blow was dealt to a failing
trade by the oidium, when production altogether ceased, and
existing stocks became gradually exhausted, while prices rose,
as the latter diminished, from £,26 to £76 per pipe for the
lowest qualities. This enhancement of the price of Madeira natu
rally operated unfavourably with regard to the consumption,,
more especially as the shippers of sherry and marsala succeeded
in keeping the English market supplied with these last-named
wines at almost one-fourth of the rate demanded for common
Madeiras. The consumer of Madeira, thus forced to fall back
upon sherry and marsala, in many instances never returned to
his old love. The East Indian market, too, had become affected
first by the dissolution of the East India Company, which
imported the wine largely to their possessions, and subsequently
by the construction of the Suez Canal, which opened a more
favourable route to the East, so that ships no longer called
at Madeira on their outward voyage for their half-dozen
or half-scoi'e pipes of wine according to ancient custom; two
things of which the wine-di'inking portion of the British public.
 202          The Vineyards and Wines of Madeira.

 can scarcely be aware: Madeira has fallen considerably in price,
 and tbe stocks of matured wines in tbe island are altogether
 unprecedented, so tbat eveiytbing is favourable to an increased
 consumption. The wine has certainly a special character. It
 boasts of a refined high flavour, combined, when duly matured,
 with remarkable softness, to which it moreover unites excep
 tional keeping powers. As an accompaniment to soup,or many
 of the lighter plats, its drier varieties are especially suitable;
 while the French have long since taught us that the richer
 qualities are essential to dessert.
    The present ntocks of Madeira on the island are estimated at
fully 30,000 pipes; so that any deficiency in production arising
 from phylloxera, o'idium, or atmospheric influences is not likely
 to make itself felt for some years to come. Moreover, the
 phylloxera spreads but slowly in Madeira, it having confined its
ravages during the five years preceding our visit to a compara
tively small area; whereas a single department of France in the
same space of time had its vineyards ravaged to the extent of
the entire cultivated area of the island, Madeira-drinkers may
rest assured that never was finer wine procurable than at the
present moment, every variety of vintage or blended growth—
dry, sweet, soft, or pungent—being held by the shippers, whose
prices range from as low as <£26 to as high as £300 a pipe; an
excellent medium wine being procurable at from £50 to £80,
Madeira can, therefore, be retailed as low as 30s, a dozen, and.
nil but very choice varieties at from 60s, to 70s,




                                                                   '' v!
                                                                    , 'Vfl


                                                        *■    ...1.1.4""
                  TINTAGEBS DESCENDING THE MOUNTAIN.



                     VL—The Wines oe Teneeiee.
''The Voyage from Madeira to Tenerife—Returning—Negro Traders got up in
      an elaborate style—A German African Explorer and his probable fate—
      Howell's famous Panegyric of Canary—The Tenerife Vineyards Destroyed
     by the O'idium—Cultivation of Cochineal and Tobacco—Santa Cruz—
     Nelson's Attack against it—The Anniversary of bis Repulse still cele
     brated—Situation of the Tenerife Vineyards—The Vintage—The various
     Vines—Canary Sack—The Vidonia and other Wines of Messrs. Hamilton
     and Co.—Tenerife Wines no longer subjected to Artificial Heat—Messrs.
     Davidson and Co's Bodegas and Wines—Excursion to the Ancient Capital
     of Tenerife—Rearing and Gathering of Cochineal—Religious Processions
     and Penances.

     As mentioned in the early part of the present work,I found
it necessary, in order to reach Lisbon without waiting for the
mail steamer leaving Madeira on the 24th of the month,to make
• a considerable detour and proceed first of all to Tenerife, the
principal of the Canary Isles,and thence to Cadiz. Eemembering
204                  Tlie Wines of Tenerife.

the offc-recurring allusions in the works of the Elizabethan
dramatists to "cups of cool Canary," and above aU Howell's-
oft-quoted eulogium of Canary sack, I went these four or five
hundred miles out of my way scarcely with reluctance. On board
the steamer which conveyed me to Santa Cruz were a number
of negro mercantile agents returning from England to the West
Coast of Africa, who, after having encountered a series of severe
gales in the Channel and off the Bay of Biscay, were just
beginning to pick themselves up as the vessel touched Madeira.
They were all decked out with an abundance of heavy jewellery,,
wore velvet smoking-caps and gaily-embroidered slippers, and
affected the indolent dignified airs of the best-bred African
potentates. Among the few remaining passengers were a couj)le
of Germans, one of whom was bent on making the ascent of the
Peak at Tenerife, to witness the marvellous sunrise of which'
Humboldt speaks—the sun seeming to rise like a ball of fire
from out the sea itself, and not on the horizon—while his fellow-
countryman was of an adventurous turn of mind, and provided,
with a few maps, a pocket-compass, and a violin—in full faith,
we suppose, in the axiom that music hath charms to soothe the
savage breast—was intent upon solving some of the African
problems which still perplex geographers. The captain of the-
steamer, after gathering from him his proposed plan of pro
ceeding, privately enunciated his opinion that before the-
enthusiastic Teuton had penetrated twenty miles from the coast
his guides would rob him and run away from him, and that the
next party of blacks he fell in with wotdd assuredly eat him.
   Most people with any knowledge of Howell's Familiar-
Letters—one of Thackeray's favourite' bedside books—will
recollect the gossiping Clerk of the Council's lengthy epistle-
on wines and other beverages to my Lord Cliff, wherein, when,
recording the ancient adage that "good wine sendeth a man to
heaven," he tells us that the saying may be most truly applied'
to the far-famed sack of the Canary Isles, which, like sherry
and madeira, can lay claim to a Shakspearean recognition..
Famous, however, as Canary wine was during the Elizabethau.
                     The Wines of Tenerife.                      205

• era, it is now scarcely known in England ; and since the vine
yards were attacked by the oidium in 1852 little wine has been
produced and far less exported. Between 1830 and 1840 the
vintage in the seven principal islands of the group averaged
over 46,000 pipes yearly; and of these more than half were
contributed by Tenerife, which shipped between 4,000 and 5,000
pipes per annum—equivalent to the present produce of the whole
island, whence only some 200 or 300 pipes are now-a-days
exported to England, Eussia, France, Hambui-g, the West
Indies, and the West Coast of Africa. After the destruction of
the vines by the oidium," the inhabitants of Tenerife devoted
themselves to the cultivation of cochineal, a highly profitable
industry at that epoch ; and for a period of fifteen or sixteen
 years—while the demand for this product continued active—the
 island enjoyed great material prosperity. But the wealth thus
-accumulated seems to have been squandered even more swiftly
than it had been acquired ; and when the demand for cochineal
 abated,through the discovery of other dyes, many of the farmers
found themselves ruined. Most of those who possessed any re
 maining means either replanted vines on a small scale or devoted
 their attention to the cultivation of tobacco, an industry which
 requires to be pursued for several years before it begins to pay.
    It is rather more than four-and-twenty hours' sail from
 Madeira to Tenerife. Although the island is said to possess
 fields and forests as luxuriant as those of the most favoured
 countries of Europe, and to boast of mountain scenery as
 magnificent as that of Switzerland, the first view of it is scarcely
 inviting. What meets the eye off Santa Cruz is a frowning
 coast-line of precipitous rocky cliffs, rising out of the sea, scarcely
 a patch of cultivated land being discernible. At Santa Cruz,
 the present capital, and only port in the island possessing a
 tolerable harbour, the chief import and export commerce of
  Tenerife, which previous to 1810 was concentrated at Orotava, is
  now carried on. The inhabitants of this so-called"heroic city,"
  which lies at the water's edge in a kind of basin formed by the
  surrounding hills, count as their fellow-to"wasman the late
  206                  TJie Wines of Tenerife.

  Marshal O'DoimeU, who commanded the Spanish expedition tn
  Morocco, and gained all the credit for the successes there
  achieved, although Prim was the directing genius of the army.
 High, however, as the inhabitants of Santa Cruz may rate this
 local hero, his glory pales before that of their forefathers, who
  defeated Nelson. It wiU be remembered that the latter met
 with a decided repulse at Santa Cruz, and that he lost his right
 arm through a wound received there. A couple of his boat-flags
 are preserved in the church of the Concipcion, and on every
 recurring anniversary of the engagement they are hung in the
 chapel of Santiago, where a thanksgiring service is held. On
 this occasion the bells of all the Santa Cruz churches, accordinn
                                                       '          o

 to their wont on high days and holidays, play the liveliest jig
 ever heard out of Ireland.
    There are no vineyards in the neighbourhood of Santa Cruz,,
 and, indeed, they all lie on the other side of the island. The
 best wine is produced at Orotava,Sauzal, Victoria, Santa Ursula,
 Tcod de los Vinos, Garachico, Buenavista, and Valle de Guerra.
 The growths of Arafo and Guimar are altogether inferior, and
are used for home consumption. The vintage, which ordinarily-
commences at the close of August,was delayed the year of my visit
until the first week in September,and was not likelyto finish before
the commencement of October,the grapes on the slopes near the
coast being first gathered, and those on the highlands—where
the vines are planted at an altitude of twelve or thirteen hundred
feet above the sea-level—about a fortnight later. The fruit is
carried from the vineyards to the lagar by the peasantry—men,
women,and children lading themselves with large baskets,which
they bear on their backs or heads often for a distance of a couple
of miles, their descent along the rugged mountain path being
assisted by long sticks. The grapes are trodden and pressed in
wooden lagares precisely after the fashion followed in Madeira,,
only one grower having provided himself with a French press,
and by this means considerably economised labour.
   To-day the favourite vine in Tenerife is the vidueno,or vidonia,
as it is sometimes called, the fruit of which is a juicy round
                     The Wines of Tenerife.                   207"

 white grape, the bunches seldom exceeding a pound and a half
 in weight. There is also a black variety of the vidneno, but this
 is very rare,and is mainly grown in the valley of Orotava. Before
 the oidium appeared,the malvasia vine,from which it is supposed
 the famed Canary sack used to be made, was also largely culti
 vated, but the disease dealt most severely with this variety, and
 now it is met with in very few vineyards. The grape is at once
 sweetish and harsh to the palate, while the mosto it yields is-
 much stronger than that from the vidneno. Tradition in
 Tenerife declares that the original Canary sack was a sweet and
not a dry wine, as those who derive"sack" from the French
 word"sec" would have us believe. The malvasia grapes were
left on the vines tiU they had become raisins, and one pipe of
this especial vintage needed as many grapes as sufficed for five
pipes of ordinary wine,so that the liquor which Howell eulogises
was, in fact, nothing less than a luscious Malmsey. Other vines
but scantily cultivated in the island are the tentiUo and the
negra molle, both black varieties, as their names imply; the
black and white muscatel; the espanola, the verdelho, the pedro-
Jimenez, the forastero, the vijariega, and the gual, aU white
grapes, and the last—principally found at Sauzal and Victoria—
yielding a wine of great volume and alcoholic strength, but
needing to be kept for many years to rid it of its natural harsh
ness, and render it at all palatable. Tenerife wine, which is
brought to Santa Cruz in the spring following the vintage,
was realising the growers as much as ^810 per pipe at the time-
we visited the island.
   The two principal wine-shipping firms of Tenerife are both-
English houses of old standing—Messrs. Hamilton and Co. and
Messrs. Davidson and Co.—and both, moreover, have their
central establishments on the Marina, overlooking the bay of
Santa Cruz. The house occupied by the former firm, though
built early in the present century, has a very ancient look, with
its spacious interior courtyard, girt round with picturesque black
wooden galleries, the pillars and balustrades of which are finely
turned or carved. To the right is a long narrow bodega, where
'208                   Tlie Wines of Tenes-ife.

a portion of the wines held by the firm is stored. Here we
"tasted a variety of growths shipped nnder the name of Vidonia
(the grape from which they are produced being so called), com
mencing with the vintages of 1876 and 1875, which, however,
had not yet developed any especial characteristics. On the
other hand a sample of 1874 proved remarkably soft, and some
1871-72 wine, destined for the Russian market, had acquired an
oily richness of flavour combined with considerable aroma.
Some so-called Taoro, vintaged four or five years ago, was rather
sweet; but in the course of a few more years, we were told, it
 would develop a marked pungency. A wine fifteen years of age,
 which had made the voyage to the West Indies and home again,
 and a "London Particular" of 1865 which had received, as is
the rule with Tenerife wines, some eight gallons of spirit per
pipe, were remarkably soft and aromatic, though less deep in
colour than Madeiras of the same age would have been. It may
 bere be mentioned that the vinification of Tenerife wine is almost
 precisely the same as that of Madeira, with one important
exception. Although previous to the oidium there were a few
 estufas in the island, to-day there are none; so that the wine is
no longer subjected to artificial heat with the view of advancing
its maturity. If left to itself it has a tendency either to grow
harsh when old or to become ropy. In order to guard against
 the first result a small addition of "gloria"—a thinnish kind of
 vino dulce—is given to it on arriving at Santa Cruz in April or
 May from the stores where it has been kept since the preceding
 vintage ; while ropiness is dispelled by constant racking and a
 small admixture of spirit.
       Messrs. Davidson's bodegas, situate in the northern quarter
 of Santa Cruz, comprise a range of buildings disposed in horse
 shoe fashion, where 6,000 pipes might be, and have been, easily
 stored. A venerable cellar-master, who could boast of seventy
 years' experience in the rearing of Tenerife wuies, conducted us
 through them. We commenced by tasting an 1875 vintage, which
 had a good vinous flavour, and a '74, ahke mellow and aromatic.
 A dry wine of eight years old had acquired many of the charac-
                      The Wines of Tenei-ife.                     209

 tcristics of a madeira; another, vintaged some twelve years ago,
 l^roved remarkably soft and rich, while an old Malmsey of 1859
 had all the ai'oma and lusciousness of a fine liqueur. Tenerifc
 wine has its own special character, differing as much from
 sherry on the one hand as from madeira on the other; and if it
 develoijs none of the higher qualities of these well-known
 vintages, it is nevertheless a wine of some pretension, and well
 deserves a return of its lost popularity. It is usually shipped
when from three to four years old, and may he kept in the wood
for a quarter of a century with a certainty of improvement,
although eight years will ordinarily he found sufficient for its
development. In bottle it keeps equally well and improves far
more rap>idly.
   The only excursion we made in the interior of the island was
to its old capital, Laguna, interesting alike from its i)leasant
situation and its antiquated churches, quaint public buildings,
and truly seignorial residences. On our journey thither -we were
struck by the i^rcvalence of the prickly pear,not forming hedges]
merely as in Spain, but planted in inclosed grounds as an
important object of cultivation. These plantations are due to
the cochineal industry, the prickly pear (cactus cochiniUfor)
being the plant on which the insect is raised. The lowlands in
the Canary Islands, with a southern aspect, are utilised to
produce the insect early in the year, the upper iDlantations
being supidied from them with the "mothers," or breeding
insects, in June or July, and the crop being ready for gathering
in September or October, or later, according to the season.
   The insect is proj^agated in two ways, one method being to
spread the mothers thinly on trays, with jDieces of cloth placed
lightly over them, which soon become covered with young
insects, and are then transferred to the pirickly jiear. The
second method consists in p)laeing a few of the mothers in
a little bag of clear muslin or of perforated paper, which is
pinned to the cactus leaf, on to which the new-born insects crawl
through the meshes of the muslin or the holes in the p)aper.
This is a critical i^eriod,for the infant insect is very delicate,and
                                                              o
 210                   The Wines of Tenerife.

 perishes under great heat or heavy rain. It can, however, take
 care of itself to some extent,for it moves actively about and shifts
 to whichever side of the leaf affords it most shelter.    After an
 interval of two or three days the insect inserts its proboscis into
 the leaf, and never moves again until it is gathered.
    These"mothers," which are the grey cochineal of commerce,
 are shell-like in form, of a grey colour, and light in weight, and
 being all colouring matter are sought after by manufacturers on
 account of their purity. The full-grown insect is gathered by
scraping or brushing it off the leaf into some vessel, and is pre
pared for market in various ways, among others by drying it
in stoves built for the purpose, and in which the insect, spread
lightly on trays, is placed. The result is the silver cochineal, more
or less white and clear in colour,according to the amount of care
that has been taken in gathering and killing it. Of late years a
 method of preparing the cochineal has been introduced into the
Canary Islands which leaves it black, shelly, and shiny. When
this is accomplished with care the commodity fetches a high
price. A small quantity of cochineal being placed in a long linen
 bag is gently shaken,thereby causing the juice to exude. Careful
management is necessary to avoid destroying the form of the
insect, which, after being di-ied in the sun, is again shaken in a
linen bag with some black metallic sand to give it brilliancy. The
sand is afterwards sifted out, but as some of it always adheres
the loss in weight is, perhaps, less than by killing the insect
in the stove, and has doubtless led to the general adoption of
the process.
   The cultivation of cochineal involves a considerable expendi-
tm-e for guano or for chemical manure, otherwise the prickly
pear plant would soon be exhausted by the insect; it moreover re
quires to be carried on where irrigation is practicable. The quantity
of cochineal produced in the Canary Islands ranges from 20,000
to 25,000 bags, of an average of 1751b. each, the value of it
ordinarily being half-a-crown per lb. Any less price than two
.shillings per lb. would not repay the cultivator.
    It was a holiday on the day of our visit to Laguna,and there
                     The Wines of Tenerife.                  211


"was a solemn procession in honour of the Virgin, in "which the
 newly-installed Bishop of Tenerife took part, so that wc had
 the pleasure of seeing a large congregation of the peasantry in
  their old picturesque costumes. These good people came in
  from all parts of the island, on horseback and on foot, hlo
  "proraesas," ho"wever, "were performed, as at the Fiesta de
. Candelaria, a small place on the south side of the island,"where
 ■women, "with extended arms, carrying five lighted tapers in
 each hand, shuffie on torn and bleeding knees over nearly a
 mile of beach and up the aisle of the convent chapel to the
 altar, where the miracle-working image of the Virgin is placed.
 Nor was it our fortune to see men walk behind the cross "with an
 iron crowbar lashed to each extended ariq—a penance which the
 Tenerife mariners and mountaineers frequently vow to perform
 when in peril or distress.




             BRrXGINQ DO"S\'N THE NEW WINE TO SANTA CRUZ.
       .r




■'ir




        ■'•Ia",
Y^tliliiiiil
A




m
%
    ••Y "
m

n




' t.
                               ■'i
                                  "L
                                  -i




                                  J

                                  I



                    -v^Xjrr^i


        ' ■'■ ^ .' ''7^. - .v.

                                  J
    I      '1      ; ^      ^ \»j
                    - I    ' ^


        ■ 1.0
                          'M.:'

    C• \.; ■ ■•^
               r.i?
                  ■ ■ '.>.'1
             V,' ■♦;■•
             ■•N ■ .v':
                'V .■ • ' .■^«i




I         '.'dkkli.               -v'
             IR
           ■ '4^r
           f!i;
           S'S
  r:
v|'Cr.,        t.>
  f(
 <•(
 Cr, .
 - ' (!C
           S -I
 ?'f5
'II'
   ■^
    V^    r'
      M ■ '-I'
