A'd'17- , ;;~~c/

 ~~~M
cl~~/~µ~ tP ..
         ..




JJrrfr!c-,
       /- cj -
   (l,';fuJ/- ~dd/ad{.
     c)/ ; tJ- dJ
              /&q/vv~f,~
                    £.:t;' .
-.
The Bartender's Manual
                    (REVISED EDITION. )
              ,
  Coqbaining nrnng 1lahrnble Fo~maIB$, ~ecipe$, Efic.
                         COMI'ILED BY




      THEODORE                     PROULX~
           !WITH CHAPIN&. GORE , CHICAGO .)



Address, 92:1. lVest Fourteenth Street, Chi.cag·o, Illinois.



                  PRICE. ONE DOLLAR .




                             ·.
                                       C O PYR IG H T ,     1888.




Tho J, M.W . Jone;; ~tn.Lionery & PrlntinK Qo. , Obtcago.
                                                          ..

               AUTHOR'S PREFACE.
                                                          •

     The present work is intended as an effort to make
 the occupation of a bartender a "science and an art,"
 to keep pace with this great world of improvement,
 without a superfluity of words.
     Having been so favorably received with my first
 edition of the "Bartenders' Manual," I have concluded
 to cast a revised edition upon the (Nights of Bar)
 containing a complete extract of my theory, studi€s,
 practice and experience behind the bar. I also wish
 to mention that it is with great pleasure that I thank
the gentlemen who so kindly volunteered many new
drinks, and also reminded me of many drinks which
otherwise I would never have thought of.
    This little work contains the whole secret of bar-
tending. Everything is clearly and simply expressed
and with as little superfluity of names or phrases as
possible.    There are directions for making all ·the
fancy and popular saloon beverages known in America.
Should some customer (stranger, perhaps,) chance to
                            4
give a new name to an old drink, and you do not rec-
ognize it, that is .no fault of yours. But beware of those
"traveled" individuals who, having heard of a "new"
drink in some far-distant city, seek to try your knowl-
edge, or it may be, to ridicule you as being behind
the ·age.    In such cases I should reply, respectfully,
thus: "I have been behind the bar for twenty years
and I have never heard the name of what you des ire,
but if you tell me how to make it I will be ple ased
to mix it for you." That will generally please them,
for it gratifies their self-conceit, a_:id you may p e rhaps
gain and retain a first-class patron. Should you have
been but five years in the business, be sure and tell
them ten. In short, to use a slang t e rm, "bluff" them.

          WHERE BARTENDERS SP RING F ROM.

     But few bartenders ever entered upon the avoca-
tion of their own accord.        They gradually and in-
sensibly, as it were, drift into it through force of cir-
cumstances and without _previous consideration, grad-
uating perhaps from the position of clerk in the
adjoining cigar stand, or perhaps acted as a te~porary
substitute while the bartender was absent or ill for a
day or two, etc.; and all of a sudden, as it were, h e
has emerged, .almost without knowing it, into a full-
 fledged bartender; and in nine cases out of ten he
                             5
was born and educated for a much higher sphere of
life , for it is notorious that society in general looks
down upon bartenders as beings of an inferior degree,
while the fact is that among them can be found as fine
and good men, mentally and morally, as adorn any
othe r profession, not excepting either the pulpit or
the bar.
               B EARI NG BEHIND THE BAR.

       I would -like to see a neat-looking man, with his
 hair close cut, freshly shaven face, clothed in a white
 jacke t or vest, with a white neckti e or light-colored
 cravat, and a smile of g reeting upon his countenance,
 denoting a welcome to every entering customer.
      \N hen not busy the bartender should stand erect,
with fold ed arms, or if that becomes tiresome, walk
to and fro, but always with an eye to business, being
sure that no one is waiting to be served. He should
keep his _eyes on the front of the bar, either by watch-
ing the mirror, if his back be turned, or otherwise.
H e should never allow the counter to remain wet, or
the bottles o r decanters empty.       Do not allow your
place of business to become a rendezvous for yo ur
fri e nds to converse with you upon your personal
affairs, lest your empl,oye r might think tha t you were
liabl e to neglect your business. When off duty it
would be b ette r to a bse nt yo urself from the place; by
                                   6

    so doing you will be the more resp e cted. Read news-
    papers, that you may kee p w ell pos ted on the topics
    of the day, and be abl e to answer readily any qu es-
    tions propounded you by your custome rs.        " Neve r
    drink behind the bar" with a customer, nor in front
    of it either if you can by an y means avoid it; it looks
    bad.
                           GR AC E FU L N ESS.


        When a bartender has reached gracefuln ess, h e
    has attained to the scie nce and art of his professio n ,
    because he must be · thoroughly v~ rs e d in his busin e ss
    if he moves with ease; h e is· in doubt of nothing. It is
    g raceful to take hold of a glass w ith t w o fin g ers, not the
    whole hand.         Graceful to place a .g lass upon th e
    counter without slamming it down. It is g raceful to
    place the shaker over your le monade g lass witho ut
    striking it on top with your hand; b y merely pre ss in g
    on it, it w ill re main just as firmly fix e d a nd secure .
       With these few and necessarily brief rema rks I
    shall proceed to the main object of my work, co m-
    me nding it to the attention and soliciting for it the
    p atronage of those to whom it is practically addressed.

                                                 TH E   AU THO R •




•
    Latest JVIode of ]\/Ii.Xin~ ~IIinl\s.

                  ·Absinthe Suisette.

     Take a mixing glass, put in about two teaspoon-
fuls of anisette, two-thirds of a jigger of absinthe ;
then one jigger of seltzer; stir and strain in a sour
g lass already cooled.
                       Absinthe.
    No. 2. Is made like an Absinthe Suisette, omit-
ting the anisette.
                   Absinthe-Plain.

     No. 3. A little anisette or syrup, or sometimes
not any sweetening at all, with two-thirds of a jigg er
of absinthe in a punch or champagne glass; fill up
with ice water drippinQ" throuo-h
                       ~      I:>
                                  a I:>
                                    a-lass with a hole in
its bottom for that purpose. (This is the French way.
of preparing it.)
                  Absinthe Fr~ppe.
    Take a mixing glass and fill it full of bar ice; put
in about two teaspoonfuls of anisette and the same
quantity of absinthe whi ch you used in the Absinthe
                           8

 Suisette ; then two thirds of a jigger of seltzer ; then
take another mixing glass and fill it full of ice, as you
did the first ; then very dexterously place it over the
other, which brings the tops of the tumblers together,
the bottom of one of the glasses remaining on the
counter and the other upward. You then place your
thumb and forefinger around the glasses where they
join, hold the glass tightly with the remainder of your
hand, and turn them .over opposite to what they were
before. The · liquid will thus run from one to the
other. Perform the same operation from three to five
t imes ; and if you are making two or more at the
time, yot1 ought to use both hands at the same time.
You must then strain it into a nother cooled glass
which yo u have prepared beforehand ; then, by ap-
plying each hand to the bottom of each glass, hold-
ing the g lass opposite your glasses, and making a
slight opening where the glasses join, the liquid will
slowly escape without any of the ice ; or, we some-
t imes shake it with a shaker, and strain it.
               Apollinaris Lemonade.

   This beverage is much called for, and is made in
much the same manner as an ordinary lemonade,
merely using the apollinaris water in place of the
ordinary water, a nd stir instead of shake.
                    Apollo Punch.
     Cool a flat champagne glass. The n take a mixing
g lass, put in as much syrup as you would in a cobbler,
                            9

 a lemon peel, fill the glass two-thirds full of ice, one
 and one-half jigger of sherry _wine, stir with spoon ;
 strain in the champagne g lass ; add fruits and float
 some claret on fhe top.
                    Arrack Punch.
     Is made like a rum or whisky punch, substituting
 arrack for the other liquors.
                  Absinthe Cocktail.
      In a mixing glass, bitters, syrup as in a regular
 cocktail, with a lemon peel, fill the glass two-thirds
 full of ice, two-thirds of a jigger of absinthe, half a
 jigger of water or seltzer; stir with spoon, and strain
 in cocktail glass.                ·
                 Amaranth Cocktail.
    A regular cocktail; sq~irt some seltzer on the top
 with a little powdered sugar, to make it fizz.
                     Ale Saugarer.
   One t easpoonful of sugar, one glass of ale, nut-
meg on the top.
                  Blue Blazer.
     To make this, you will take a hot whisky glass
 which is to receive the hot drink, and place it in front
 of you on the counter. You ill then take a whisky
 glass not quite half full of hot water, two pieces of
 sugar, and dissolve the sugar by stirring with a spoon;
·then p ut in a jigger of whisky, strike a match and set .
                          IO

fire to the whisky by a touch of the blaze to the spoon.
Should it not readily ignite, it will be that the water
is not warm enough or the whisky is too light. U o-
der such circumstances, you will pour some whisky
into a mixing glass already heated and set fire to the
pure whisky, which will easily burn. You then pour
the contents of the other into the mixing glass, and
continue pouring from one to the other. When the
blue blaze has heated the glass so that it becomes in-
convenient to hold longer, pour it into the whisky
glass, then to the hot glass that you had previously
prepared, with som~ grated nutmeg and le~on peel.
                   Burnt Brandy .
    Put one lump of sugar into a sauce r, with one
jigger of good brandy, set fire to the liquid, and when
burnt sufficiently, smother the flame by covering with
another saucer. Then pour into a whisky glass.

                      Beef Tea.
    Put nearly a teaspoonful of extract of beef, some
salt and pepper, together with a few drops of ,celery
bitters ; and if you have any parsley on hand it makes
a great improvement, especially when chopped very
fine. Fill the glass with hot water, stir thoroughly
and serve with some fin e ice on the side.

                   Branqy Float.
   A pony of brandy served like a pony of whisky,
and while the pony is inside the whi sky g lass add a
                             I I


 little apollinaris water or plain water to it, then raise
 the pony very slowly and the bran9.y will float on the
 top of the water.
                         Banana.
     Egg and milk, shake up together with ice and
 strain.
                    Brandy Frappe·
     One pony of brandy or a jigger of brandy in a
 mixing glass filled with fine ice, shake up well, then
 strain in a thin glass with half a bottle of . imported
 ginger al'e.
                 lfaltimore Egg Nogg.
    Lemonade glass, one-third of a jigger of Jamaica
rum, one-third of a jigger of whisky, one-third of a
jigger of sherry, two-thirds of a tablespoonful of
sugar, lumps of ice, one egg filled with milk. Shake
well, and strain in a large thin glass. With nutmeg,
if desired.          ··
                  Cocktail-Whisky.
     "Fake a mixing glass, hold it in your left hand,
fake fl piece of lemon peel in your right hand, press
it, an'd put it in the glass; then add two squirts of
bitters, syrup and absinthe; then put in your bar ice
and one jigger of whisky; stir it with a spoon; then
strain it into a cocktail glass. Some bartenders make
th e mistake of adding the fruits of the season. It is
wrong, as a cocktail should always be served plain.
                           12

A whisky sour, on the contrary, demands all the deli-
cacies of the time of year, si.Ich as strawberries, pine-
apple, orange, etc.
                Champagne Cocktail.
     In a thin glass, put one lump _o f ice nearly the
size of an egg, one lemon . peel and two squirts of
Ang ostura bitters ; then you take a dry whisky glass, ·
put in it a very little powdered sug ar, open the bottl e
of wine, pour some off in the whisky glass which c_o n- ,
tain s the sugar, it will produce a beautiful foam, stir
with a spoon; then hold the edge over the other glass
a lready prepared, pour in more champagn e and hold
the g lass in a way s-o that the win e will naturally run
into the other glass which conta ins the ice and lemon
peel. If the foam has a tende ncy to run over, remove
the whisky glass.and when the foam has settled fill the
g lass direct from the bottle; if the re is more than one
person prepare it in the same manner.
     No. 2 . Into a champag ne glass put a lump of
sug ar, upon it squirt two or three dashes of A n g os-
tu ra bitters, one piece of le mon p eel twisted ; th e n
p our in your champag ne.
     No. 3. Into a champag ne g lass put_seve ral drops
of A ngostura bitters; then t ak e a teaspoonful of pow-
d ered sugar, drop it into the g lass a nd instantly give
a jerk to the glass while holding it in y our h a nd, so
that t he sug ar will stick all around the g lass where
yo u sp read the bitters before receiving the sug ar.
Y ou th en take a t Gwel a nd with your thum b w ipe about
                             13

 an inch of the sugar and bitters from the edge, which
 makes it look very inviting; then pour in the cham-
 pagne.
                 · Champagne Frappe.
     Place your bottle of champagne into a pail of
 broken ice and coarse salt, and roll it until it is quite
 thick and almost frozen.

                     Claret Cobbler.
    Take a cobbler glass, which is a tall thin glass,
put in a piece of twisted lemon-peel, one and a half
teaspoonfuls of syrup, then fill the glass with bar ice
and fill it full of claret; stir it up with a spoon and
ornament with fruit of the season. Serve with two
straws.
                     Claret Punch.
    One-eighth of a lemon in a cobbler glass, about
two teaspoonfuls of syrup squeezed together with the
muddler, fill the glass full of fine ice, then fill with
claret, stir with spoon, dress with fruits and straws.
     No. 2. Take a mixing glass, put in about two tea-
spoonfuls of lemon-juice. (Some bars keep a bottle of
the juice already prepared, in order to save the time
squeezing the lemons for each drink. I therefore use
the term of teaspoonfuls instead of a half or a quarter
of a lemon, etc.)   Put in about two teaspoonfuls of
syrup, one and a half jiggers of claret, then fill glass
full with bar ice. No~ fill another mixing glass with
                           14

ice, and place one upon the other (the same as directed
in Absinthe Frappe); turn them over three or four
times; then strain into a punch prepared with fruit.
    No. 3. Take a mixing glass; put in the same
amount of lemon-syrup and claret ; fill the glass two-
thirds full of bar ice; stir with a spoon and strain in
a punch glass with fruits.
                   Claret and Ice.
    Take a glass that you generally use for strained
punch ; put in two or three pieces of ice; fill the glass
with claret.    Should your customer call for claret,
sug ar and ice, you have only to a g d the sugar.

                    Claret Wine.
    Claret wine is served in a stem glass nearly twice
the size of a sherry glass.

                  Chocolate Punch.
    Use a soda glass ; put in the yolk of an egg, some
lumps of ice-the same as you would for a milk punch
or a seltzer lemona_d e; add half a spoonful of sugar,
half a jigger of whisky, and the same amount of
blackberry brandy; fill it up with milk, shake it well,
a nd ~train into a dry glass, with nutmeg if desired.

                     Chartreuse.
   Chartreuse is a most delicious cordial. There are
two or mo; e kinds, viz.: ttie green and the yellow.
                             15
 It should be served delicately in a pony g lass, with a
 glass of wa ter on th e side, and the pony glass should
 be set upon the bottom of a whisky glass-that is, a
 whisky glass turn ed upside down.
     N. B.-All oth er cordials should be served in th e
 same manner.
               Champagne Bowl Punch.
      For one gallon about one dozen of lumps of sugar,
  on e jigger of maraschino and one of curacoa, 3 quarts
 of champagne and one of apollinaris water; the cham-
 pag ne a nd apollinaris must bf' excessively cold before
 preparing this as no ice should be used in it; add
 sliced orang es, pine apple, berries, etc. , floating on
 top. ( For this excelle nt receipt I am indebted to
 Mr. Harry Stiles, for r6 years with Chapin & Gore.)
                    Ctua coa Punch.
    In a cobbler glass a little syrup, lemon Juice as in
a sour, about half pony of curacoa, one jigg er of
brandy, a dash of Jamaica rum, fill with fin e ice, stir
well with a spoon, and decorate with fruits and two
straws.
          Cincinnati or Dutch Cocktail.
    Pop and beer.
                 Chocolate ·Cocktail.
    In a mixing glass a little curacoa, the yolk of an
egg , on e jigg er of brandy, lumps of ice; shake up and
strain in a stem champagne g lass.
                          16

                     Claret Cup.

    For one gallon, the juice of one dozen of lemons,
one pound of sugar, one jigger of maraschino, one
jigger of curacoa, one gallon of claret wine; stir well
until the sugar is all dissolved; put in a punch bowl
with one big chunk of ice, with all kinds of fruits
sliced and floating on top.

                  Champagne Flip.

    For one gallon of flip it requires eighteen eggs, one
pound of sugar, one P.int of Medford rum, one pint
of brandy, one quart of milk a-i:id two quarts of
champag ne. It is prepared thus: take the white of
six eggs and beat it very hard. Then beat the balance
of the eggs, the yolk and white together, until they
are very light, add the sugar and stir well, then add
the liquors, stirring it thoroughly; on the top spread
the white of the eggs. Then with the help of a cor-
nucopia filled with colored sands and a small opening
at the e nd, you can write the motto "Merry Christ-
mas," or "Happy New Year," which ever is appropri-
ate. For two or more gallons the bartender can guide
himself by the estimate of one gallon.

                       Durkees.

     Are made the same as a ] ohn Collins with the ex-
ception that you use Jamaica rum instead of Tom
g in and a flavor of curacoa is added to a Durke e.
                         Egg· Nog:g.
     Use a soda glass and break into it an egg; put in
 two or three lumps of ice (bar ice is too fine and dis-
 solves too rapidly for this style of drink), add a light
 tablespoonful of sugar, half a jigger of whisky, and
 one-half a jigger of rum, and fill up with milk; shake
 well and strain into a dry glass in the winter and a
 cooled glas~ in summer.
                Eg·g Flip or Sherry Flip.
                               .       '
     Use for this a mixing glass. Break in an egg, with
 some lumps of ice; add half a tablespoonful of sugar
 an~ one jigger of sherry wine; shake well and strain
 in a stem champagne glass; Aavor with nutmeg if
 your cu stomer desires it.
               X. 'L. C.R. or Excelsior.
    Take a cobbler glass; put in a piece . of twisted
lemon-peel; sweeten with syrup as you would a cobbler;
then fill the glass with ice; then fill glass half full with
Rhine wine, and stir with a spoon.           Now take the
spoon and place the outside against the inside of the
glass, and pour in slowly some claret wine until full.
The claret will remain upon the surface of the Rhine
wine, and thus give a very nice effect to the beverage.
Decorate with fruit and serve with straws.
                   Egg Nogg-Bowl.
   Is made exactly the same as a Champagne Flip,
substituting milk for the champagne.
                            18


                    Frozen Punch.
     Use two mixing glasses, and fill both with bar ice;
 put in one glass. a s much syrup and lemon juice a s
 you would in m aking a claret punch ; add a jigger of
·whisky ; place one glass over the other as explained
 in Absinthe Fra ppes; strain similarly into a punch
 glass and decorate with fruit, etc. ; or you may use one-
 q uarte r or one-half of a le mon, squeezed, if you are
 not using lemon juice.
                     Golden Fizz.
     Take the yolk of an- egg; separate from the white,
which is done by breaking it upon the side and hold-
ing the two shells togethe r; allow the white to escape,
while retaining the yolk in one portion of the shell ;
put the yolk into a mixing glass; add one-half tabl e-
spoonful of sugar, the amount of le mon JUlce you
would for a whisky sour, one jigger of Tom. g in ;
 fill two-thirds full with bar ice; shake it well, and
 strain in a nother glass; then fill it up with seltzer.
                      Gin Cocktail.
   A gin cocktail is made precisely in the s ame mann e r
 as a whisky cocktail, except that g in is substituted
 for whisky.
                      Gin Punch.
     Gin punch is made in the same way as. a whisky
 or claret punch, merely using g in in place of the other
 liquors.
                            19

                       Gin Sling.
     In making a gin sling use a whisky glass, and put
 in a little sugar, and some grated nutmeg placed in
 the bottom of the glass. ·
                       Gin Fizz.
      In a mixing glass. Put in as much lemon as you
 would in a punch, one-half a tablespoonful of sugar,
 squeeze well, few lumps of ice, one jigger of Tom
 g in, .shake well, and strain in a punch glass and fill
 with seltzer.
                       Gin Puff.
    In a lemonade g lass; the white of an egg, sugar
as you use in a milk punch, one jigger of Tom gin ,
lumps of ice, fill up with milk and shake well ; then
strain in a large thin g lass.
                   Golden Slipper.
    In a bell shaped Pousse Cafe g lass. yellow chart-
reuse, the yolk of an egg, filled wit~ Kirsch Wasser.
They sometimes burn it like a Pousse Cafe.

            How to Serve Cham1lagne.
     Should you have some small napkins about six or
eig ht inches square you will place one before each of
your customers, neatly folded. Place the champag ne
g lasses in front of you upon the counter, as many as
the party ma;y require. Now get your bottle of wine
an d wipe it dry, as it has been on the ice. Cut the
                               20

1   wires and strings with tfo.e nippers, and leave no
    string s around the cork; cut as close as you can in
    order to make it look neat. Fold an ordinary napkin
    to about three or four inches wide, leaving it at its
    full length ; then take your bottle of wine and roll it
    up in the napkin. You will hold the bottle in your
    right hand, and with· your left proceed to twist and
    draw the cork. Having previously provide d yo urself
    with a small napkin , you will immediately, upon re-
    moving the cork, wipe the mouth of the bottle to
    remove any particles of cork that might still adhe re.
    You will the n pour a little wine into the glass of the
    customer who ordered th"e bottle ; the n fill all the
    other glasses and back to the first unti l they a r e all
    full set. (But in a place where they do an exte ns ive
    business, I should only wipe the b ottle and cool the
    g lasses.)
                Half and Half or 'Alf and 'Alf.
       This beverage is composed of one-half ale and the ·
    other half of porter.
                         Hot Whisky.
        Take one lump of -s ugar, dissolve it with a little hot
    water, add a lemon peel, twisted ; fill your glass one-
    half full of hot water, and add one jigger of whisky;
    flavor with nutmeg; if desired.
                     Honey and Whisky.
       Honey and whisky, or maple syrup, rock candy
    syrup, molasses with rum or whisky, are all served in
                             21

  the same way, about half a teaspoonful of the syrup
  to each.
                       Hot Scotch.
     Hot Scotch, Hot Irish, and all other kinds of hot
 drinks, are made in the same way as a Blue Blazer, or
 the plain way, which I explained in the receipt entitled
 " Hot Whisky." But a Hot Sherry, Claret, Rhine,
 and all other still wines, must be made the plain way,
 as they will not burn.

                   Hot Spiced Rum.
    This drink is made in the same way as a Blue
Blazer, or any plain hot drink, according to taste, and
rum in place of the othe r liquors, and you put three
or four cloves upon the top. Some people use a littl~
piece of butter also, but it gives to the drink such a
greasy appearance that I cannot consistently recom-
mend it.
                  Hot Peppermint.
    In a hot drink glass, one to two teaspoonfuls of
peppermint and two lumps of sugar. Then fill the
glass two-thirds with hot water. Hot Jamaica Gin-
ger is served the same way.

                    Hot Menthe.
    One pony of peppe rmint cordial m a hot drink
glass, then fill two-thirds full of hot wate r, add one
lump of sug ar.
                               22


                          Hot Sling.
    Is like any other hot drink, without the lemon pee l.

               Gen. Harrison Egg Nogg.

    One egg in a g lass of .cider.

                          Bari-Kari.

    A whisky sour, strain in a punch g lass, and fill ·with
a pollinaris or seltz er water.

                    ~ot   A pple Toddy .

    In a hot d rink g lass, two lumps of s ug ar, one-third
the g lass of hot wate r, half a baked a pple, one Jigger
of a pple bra ndy, and nutmeg on th e top.

                     Jers e y Cockta il.

     In a mi xing g lass, a few lumps of ice, a lemo n
peel, bitte rs and syrup about t wice as mu ch as in a
regula r co ckta il, two jigge rs of cide r, stra in in a pun ch
g lass with a slice of orange.

                    Jim Go r e P u nch.

     In o ne of those thick-bottom Southe rn toddy
g lasses about the juice of one-fourth of a lem o n, sy ru p
as you wo uld for a ny othe r punch, som e big chu nks
o f ice, one jigger of wh isky, stir up w ith a spoon and          •
leave the spoo n in th e g lass.
                      John. Collins.
    Cool a thin glass; in a mix ing glass, put in half
of a nice fresh lemon, two-thirds of a tablespoonful
of sug ar, squeeze it well; a few lumps of ice, on e jig -
ger of Tom gin, stir the contents very well with a
spoon, strain in th e other glass with half a bottle of
Delatour soda; see that the peel is on the lemon.
This is, beyo nd doubt, the best way to make a Col-
lins in the world.
                    Knickerbocker.
     In a cobble r g lass, syrup and lemon JUtce as in a
punch , on e slice of o range a nd on e of pin eapple, one-
half pony of curacoa, one jigger of St. Croix rum ,
fill with ice a nd straws.
                           Kirs ch.
   Is som etimes ser ved with a lump of sugar in the
pony g lass, as it is a very dry cordial.
                    L a ngtry Punch.
      ·T wo lumps of sugar dissolved in a littl e wate r,
on e qu a rter of a Jemon crushed with the sug ar, some
fi ne ice, on e-third of jigger of Jamaica rum and two-
thirds of whisky ; s tir up with a spoon , strain in a bowl
or stem champag ne g lass, fruits of the season a nd
Aoat som e clare t on the t op.
                      Mi n t Julep.
   Use a cobbler g lass. · Put in a little syru p, as you
would in a cobbl e r ; lemon peel ; add two or three
sprigs of mint; fill glas.s full of bar ice, then o n e
jigger of whisky; stir with spot>n ; then fill the glass
again with bar ice so that it may be brim full of ice,
add about three more sprigs of mint stuck on top
near the edge of the glass; decorate with fruits.

                Milk or Crea m P1incb.

      For either of the above use a soda g lass, some
lumps of ice, half tablespoonful of sugar, half jigg er
o f w hisky, and on e-half of M e dford rum ; the n fill
i t with milk or cream, whichever your custome r may
call for. Strain it in another g lass, and sprinkle nut-
m eg on the top if d esired.   SometimE;;; p eople like
to drink it with straws.    A bottle of h a lf rum and
h a lf brandy or whisky should b e p repared for that
s ort of drinks.
                    Milk Lemonade.

     This is made in the same mann e r a s any other
p lain le monade, substituting milk in place of wate r,
w ith a little m o re sug ar to prevent it from curdling .
                                         .
              Maraschino and Brandy.

     T ake a p o ny g lass and fill it half full of the mara-
s chino, a nd the n very slowly a nd ca refull y fill it up
w ith brandy.      If this is d o ne with ca re , the bra ndy
w ill not mix, but re main on the top of the maraschino,
w hich is the inte ntion. Serve on the top of a whisky
g lass.
                  Manhattan Cocktail.
      This is made in the same way as any othe r cock-
tail , except that y ou will use on e-half vermouth. and
the othe r half whisky, in th e place of using all whisky,
omittin g absinthe.
                    Martini Cocktail.
    Is half Tom g in and half vermouth made like an y
oth er cockta il; no absinthe.
                 Metropolita n Cocktail.
    Th e i1wb re di ent of a r eo-ula
                                b
                                      r cocktail and h alf a
jigger of ve rmouth and half brandy, made th e same
way as a regula r cockta il.
                 Olcl-fashionecl Cocktail.
    T a ke on e-half lump of s ug ar, a nd dissol ve it with
water in a bar or whisky g lass, which have the sam e
m eaning ; then pour out the water; add a littl e bitters,
sy rup a nd absinthe as y ou would to any other cocktail ;
twist a pi e ce of lemon-peel; drop in two or three
pie ces of ice, one jigger of whisky ; stir with a spo o n,
and stra in into ano ther whisky g lass.
     No. 2. Prepared like the old-fashion No. 1, with
th e exception th at y ou use on e chunk of ice only a nd
leave it in the g lass in stead of st rain it.
                         P o1·t F lip.
     Port Flip is ma de in th e sa me m a nner as an E gg or
 a S h e rry F lip , using port w ine in place of sh erry, e tc.
                   Pony of Whisky.
    Fill a pony glass of whisky, then place over it a
whisky glass upside down;while holding both together,
turn the whisky glass on its bottom containing the
pony upside down; water on the side.
    ANOTHER METHOD.-Place your pony glass upon
the edge of the counter and fill it; then cover it with
a whisky glass turned upside down;_ then, with your
fore and index fingers placed upon the top and thumb
underneath, turn the g.lasses over and serve. Should
you wish to have it cold, while holding as I have said ,
with the scoop throw in some ice, filling up the glass
all around the pony, which contains the liquor ; and
after a brief space, or when your customer is re ady to
drink, hold it again in the same position ; th e n reve rse
it and the ice will fall out, leaving, of course, th e
liquor undisturbed.
                     Pousse Cafe.
     In a Pousse Cafe glass put in one-fourth anise tte,
on e -fourth curacoa, one-fourth yellow chartreuse a nd
one-fourth brandy.
                        Modern.
   No. 2. One-fourth maraschino , one-fourth pep-
permint cordial, one-fourth abricotin e and on e-fourth
brandy. The contrast of th ese colors is beautiful.
These Pousse Cafes are all pre pare d as e xplained in
Pousse Cafe No . 3.
                            27
      No. 3. This drink must be mixed with great care,
in order that e ach cordial may show separately when
placed before the customer.. A Pousse Cafe is a drink
consisting of · six different cordials, more or less. It
is made in a Pousse Cafe glass, or sherry glass of an
oval shape. You must first commence with mara-
schino, and you will have to use your judg ment as to
the quantity you will require to make the stripes of
an equa l width. The n comes curacoa; then yellow
chartreuse, to be fo llowed successively by g reen cha r-
treuse, Be nedictine <1.nd brandy. When you have
 these cordials, carefull y place one on the top of the
 other by pouring the m on the e nd of a spoon a nd
 slidin g it on the side of th e g lass so that it will fall
 slowly upon the other a nd not mix . You the n sta rt
 the fire to it, and let it burn about thirty seco nds;
  then place over it a large g lass and it will smother the
  Aame. Now, with a small pa ir of silver prongs, t ak e
  a g ood si zed piece of ice a nd cool the edg e of the
  g lass. Serve with one napkin undern eath and one on
  the rig ht-hand side of the custome r.
                    Pousse L' A1nour.
     T ake a P ousse C afe g lass; p ut in a bout one-third
 of a maraschino, th e yolk of one eg g , fill up w ith
 bra ndy, a nd burn lik e a Pousse C afe. Sometimes we
 do not burn it.
                   P h oon ix Cockt ail.
    This is made with one J·i b
                              o-o-er
                                b
                                     of Old T om I:>o-in ' a
 few drops of Bened ictin e, a few drops of ora no-e
bitte rs. It is prepared     in   the same mann e r as a
reg ular cocktail.
                   Plain Leinonade.
     On e whole lerrion peeled and cut in two, put in a
le monade g lass, one full tablespoon of sugar, squ e eze
well with muddler, fill half ·full with fine ice, then fill
full with wate r. Shake well and strain it, unless told
not t o.
                    Puritan Cooler.
     In the larg est si ze of thin g lass ; one chunk of ice,
o n e jigge r of whisky and a bottl e of importe d g inge r
ale, with a little orange juice.

                     Perry Oyster.
    B reak in a whisky glass one eg g, add salt, p epper
an d v inegar, and the n you have an artificial oyster.

                  Plymouth Cocktail.
    A regular cocktail mad e out of Plymouth gin.

                   The Prohibition.
   I s made of one egg, a little le mon juice, on e glass
of cider; shake up in the ice and stra in ; w ith a little
nutmeg, if d esired.
                 Port Wine Sangaree.
   P ut in a mixing g lass a t easpoonful of s ug ar, fill
up two-thirds with fin e ice, one jigger of port w in e,
                             29
shak~ well, strain in a stem champagne glass with nut-
meg on the top.
                   Porter Sangaree.
     One big lump of ice, a little sugar, fill with por-
te r, nutmeg on the top, then remove the ice. Some-
times we omit the ice.
                     Roman Punch.
    Use a cobbler glass, a nd as much syrup as you
would for a cobbler , a little curacoa, some lemo n juice;
then fill it up with bar ice, half a jigger of J amaica rum,
and a half jigger of whisky; stir wi th a spoon, dress
it with fruit, and serve with a straw.

               Reed's St01nach Bitters.
    These bitters are now served in a sherry glass.

                      Ruin Punch.
   Rum Punch is made in the same way as a whisky
punch, except that rum is used instead of whisk y.

                       Rums, Etc.
     Rums, Brandies, Whiskies, Gins, etc., plain, are
all served in the ordinary bar glasses with water on
the side.
                   Rock and Rye.
   Rock candy syrup in a whisky g lass, and let the
customer help himself with rye.
                          30

                      Rum Puff.
   Same as Gin Puff, except to substitute Medford
rum for gin.
             Seventh Regiment Punch.
    In a cobbler glass, syrup and lemon- as in a whisky
punch, one-half a jigger of brandy, fill with ice; one
jigger of Catawba, dash of Jamaica rum; stir well ;
decorate with fruits and straws.

                 Rum Puncb-Bowl.
    For one gallon of punch; two quarts of Medford
rum, two quarts ·of water, a wi.ne glass full of mara-
schino, one pound of sugar, the juice of one dozen
le mons; one-fourth ·pint of pineapple juice; stir until
the sug ar is dissolved ; add one big chunk of ice and
fruits on the top.
                   Royal Cocktail.
     Take a bowl champagne glass, put in a few drops
of pepsin or peychaud bitters; add about one-half
t easpoonful of pulverized sugar, then fill your glass
half full with seltzer; then, with the pinchers, take a
g ood size lump of ice, hold it above your glass with
your left hand, whilst with the rig ht you pour on the
top of the ice a jigger of v~ rrnouth which you had
previously measured in another glass. This makes a
fin e appearing drink, and the making of it is very at-
tractive to young thorou g hbreds.
                   Ramson Cooler.
    Take a thin glass and cool it, while you are care-
fully cutting the rind from a whole lemon into an un-
broken string, then empty the glass. With your left
hand take the end of the lemon-peel string, then let
the other extremity into the g lass, lower the other end
until you have about half of it into the glass, then ,
put in the center one well-shaped lump of ice near the
size of an egg , let the balance of the peel fall over it.
If you do that d exterously, it will have the appear-
a nce of a snake. Add one jigger of Tom gin and
 half a bottle of Delatour soda. It makes an excel-
 lent cooling drink.
                    Seltzer Water.
   Seltze r, and all other mineral waters, are served in
a punch, or modern champag ne glass.

                 Sauterne Sangaree.
   This is made similar to a Port Wine Sangaree,
sauterne being substituted for the Port.

                St. Croix Rum Punch.
    The same mode of making as any other punch,
 substituting St. Croix rum in place of other liquors.
                      Sherry Flip .
   . This is made in precisely the same way as an Egg
 Flip.
                        Silver Fizz.
     The only change in making from Golden Fizz is
 the using of the white of the egg in place of the yo lk.
       No. 2.   To substitute rum for Tom gin .

                      . Sbandy Gaff.
       This drink rs made of half a le a nd half g mger
ale.
                     Soda Lemonade.
   Precisely th e same as plain lemonade, using soda
pop in place of water. S om etimes Delatour soda.

                           Sling.
    Whisky Sling is : A little sugar a nd nutm eg in a
whisky g lass, and allowing your cust o mer to pour o ut
the liquor for himself. All other slings, such as bran-
dies, g in s, e tc., are served in the same style.

                   Sherry and Bitters.
     Take your sherry g lass and squirt into it so m e
bitters; roll the g lass to the rig ht and le ft whil e hold-
in g it b et wee n your fingers, thus allowing th e amount
of bitte rs that does not adhere to the g lass to fall out,
as what remains will be sufficient. Then fill the g lass
w ith sh e rry.
                     Sherry and Ice.
   Put a few lumps of ice in a sour glass and fill it up
with sherry wine.
                               33

                     Steinway Punch.
       A punch glass with .fruit and water on the side;
 then take
         -
             a mixin bo-. ba-lass' put in the one-quarter of a
 lemon, two lumps of sugar, about a jigge r and a half
 of apollinaris water, squeeze the whole together, then
 fill the glass half full of ice, one jigger of whisky, stir
 and strain in the pre pared g lass.
                       Sour Whisky.
    Sour vVhisky is made with a little le mon-juice in
a bar glass, and the customer pours out his own
liquor. ·Serve with water on the side.
                      Soda Cocktail.
     This is made in an ale g lass, which is a tall and
thin glass. Put in a piece of lemon peel, a little
bitters, t easpoonful of sugar, one bottle of soda pop;
stir to make a fizz.
                          Stew.
    Is a hot drink of a ny kind. It is made by adding
a piece of butter t o it and some spices. A hot claret
made this way makes a very pleasant drink.
            Silver Sour and Golden Sou:r.
    I s made like a Silver Fizz or Golden Fizz without
the seltzer.
                     Soda Nectar.
    In a soda g lass the juice of half a lemon, one-
half tablespoonful of sugar and a teaspoonful of
                             34

bi-carbonate soda; filled with Seltzer.         Stir with a
spoon.
                           Split.
      Is a pony of fin e whisky or brandy and placed a
whisky g lass over as explained in how to serve a pony
b randy; while the pony stands upside down inside of
t h e whisky g lass, pour in its side so m e seltzer, apollin-
aris or plain wat er, whatever is desired, the n care-
f ully raise the pony glass and the brandy o r whisky
will float on the top.
                       Soft Toddy.
   Some sugar crushed with two pieces of le mon-peel,
one jigger of whisky and sc:ruirt som e champagne on
the top, if kept on draught.

                     Swedish Punch.
   Is a cordial and two-thirds of a sh e rry glass is
generally an order.
                        Sea Foam.
    Half milk and half seltzer.

                        Sam Warcl.
    A sherry glass full of fine ice, a le mon p eel fitting
t he ins ~ de of the rim of the g lass, then fill it with
yellow chartreuse.
                         Snow Ball.
     Take a thin glass, fill it full of fin e ice to cool it;
 t hen take a mixing glass put in a little lemon juice,
                             35
about a teaspoonful of sugar, a ponY.of fine old brandy,
the white of an egg, a few lumps of ice, shake well;
then strain in the cooled glas's. Add half a bottle of
imported ginger ale and stir up with a spoOI: .

                    Torn. and Jerry.
         T a ke as many eggs as you think your business re-
quires, break the whole of them in the egg-beater and
b eat until it becomes very lig ht, then add powdered
su I::>o-ar to thicke n to a batter. ·
   2.  \tVhen serving put in a Tom and Jerry cup
a bout on e tablespoonful of the batter, on e-half jigge r
of Medford rum and one-ha lf jigg er of whisk) or
bra ndy and fill with h ot wa ter; stir well and nut-
meg on the top.
                Toddy-Old-fashioned .
                                      . ,I


     One lump of sugar dissolved in a little water in a
regular (old fashion ed toddy) glass, which is used very
much in the South, especially New Orleans and Louis-
ville. It has a thick bottom. Add two-thirds full of
lumps of ice, one jigger of whisky, stir up with a spoon
and leave the spoon in it.

                         Toboggan.
     Made in a hot drink glass.   About two teaspoon-
ful s of N ew Orleans molasses, one jigger of Jamaica
rum, fill up with hot water, serve with a little nutmeg
on the top.
                   Turf Cocktail.
   This is made in the same way as a Manhattan
Cocktail, except using Old Tom Gin and vermouth,
instead of.whisky and vermouth, omitting absinthe.
                        Velvet.
    Velvet is composed of a pint of champagn e and a
pint of Dublin Stout . This is th e small est amou nt;
but should the party consist o f more tha n five or s ix
pe rsons, why yo u should use double the amount of
each. Put half of each in g lasses.
                    Plain _Toddy.
    A little cut sugar and water in a bar g lass, a nd
the custome r po urs his own liq uor.
           Wliisky Toddy-Modern Way.
    Take a mixing g lass and put in syrup as yo u wo uld
a cocktail; some bar ice; one jigger of whisky. Str a in
it in a stem champag ne g lass and serve with a little
nutmeg ori top.
                   Whisky S1nash.
   Take a hollow stem g lass, thru st in its opening a
sprig of mint, then fill w ith fine ice all around it.
Then in a mixing glass put sy rup as you would in a
sour, a _teaspoonful of water, abo~t three sprigs of
mint slightly mashed with the muddler, fill two-thirds
with fine ice, one jigger of whisky; stir well and strain
and add fruits.
                                37

                       Whisky Crusta .
     In a mixing g lass, some syrup as you would use in
a cocktail, a flavor of maraschino, on e jigger of
whisky ; fill t wo-thirds with bar ice; stir with a spoon.
Then take a cooled sour glass, rub a piece of lemon
on its e dg e and dip it lig htly in the powdered sugar,
thus · it will be. fro s ted. Then put ,in th e g lass the
p eel of a half a le mon prepared as in a " Ramson
Cool er. " Strain and a dd fruits.
     All other Crustas a re made the same way with the
e xception of the ir respective liquors which they call
for.
                          White Lyon.
     In a cobbler g lass, syru p and lemon juice as in a
p un ch ; a bout half a p ony of curacoa, on e jigger of St.
C ro ix rum, fi ll w ith ice, stravvs and fruits.

                         Whisky Fix.
    T o ma ke like a n unstrained whisky punch.

                        Whisky Sour.
       Cool th e sour g lass: with water on the side. In a
 mix ing g lass one-q u a rte r of a lemon , a teaspoonful
 of syrup, squee ze th e co nte nts together, fill the glass
·two-thirds with fin e ice, a d d on e jigger of whi sky, sti r
 w ith cockta il spoo n a nd s t rain in sour g lass with fru it.
       No. 2 . Prepare yo ur sour g lass with frui t a nd a
 littl e p in eapple juice. S om e times you mig ht fro st t he
 edge of the g lass with s ug a r ; it is a little old-fashion ed,
still some people are fond of it. Take your nllxmg
glass, put in at least two teaspoonfuls of lemon juice;
fill glass two-thirds full of bar ice, syrup accordingly.
There are some persons who like the flavor of Bene-
dictine or -curacoa in it; if so, add a little. Now one
jigger of good whisky (no mixing whisky); stir with
spoon, and strain into a glass which 'you already had
prepared.     This is acknowledged to be the nicest
sour on record.
               Whisky P~1nch-Plain.
    Prepare your punch glass. . Take a mixing .glass,
and put in a_little more lemon than you did in the
sour; also a little more syrup, two-thirds full of ice;
add a jigger of whisky and about . two-thirds of a
jigger of water.    Stir with a spoon and strain into a
punch glass; water on the side.
            Whisky Punch-Unstrained.
     Take a cobbler glass; put in as much syrup and ,
lemon as you would in a regular whisky punch ; fill it
full of bar ice, one jigger of whi.s ky; stir ·with a spoon.
 Place some fruits on top and serve with straws.
                  Whisky and Mint.
   Take a few sprigs of mint add a little sugar and
wate r, mash them together with the muddler. The
customer pours his own liquor.
                   Whisky and Tansy.
     This is served the same as the preceding , us in g
t a nsy in place of the mint.
                    MEDICINAL DRINKS.


                          F'or Headache.
         An absinthe suisette, or a t easpoonful . of bi-car_
     borate of soda an~ seltzer water.    A soda cocktail
     is also recommended.
                       For St01naclt-ache.
        Some French brandy, with plenty of J a maica
     ginger or peppermint.
                          For Diarrhooa.
         Take a whisky glass; put in a piece of lemon-peel
      twisted; considerable amount of nutmeg, and also
      Jamaica g in ger, half jig ger of blackberry bra ndy, half
    · port wine and half brandy, with good deal of sugar.

                        To Sober Up On.
        A soda cockta il , or some le mon juice and seltzer
                                                    .....,
     water.
            Morning After Being I nebriate d.
         A cocktail made w ith a considerable amount of
     a bsinthe. This is to steady the nerves; or an absinthe,
l    or Collins.
                          40

       To Retain the First Morning Drink.
   A piece of lemon with some salt upon it.
                    An Appetizer.
   Sherry and bitters, or one-third o;ang e bitters and
two-thirds of s he~ry, or a vermouth cocktail, or plain
vermouth.
                      For a Colcl.
   Rum and molasses; rock candy syrup and rye
whisky; maple or honey syrup with whisky or rum.
               For a Sour Stomach.
           -
    One teaspoonful of- bi-carbonate of soda and
seltzer or vichy.
                  Fo1· Hiccough.
    Press your upper lip with your finger firmly, or
half a teaspoonful of powdered sugar, or drink cold
water slowly.



               HINTS AND REMARKS.


    Whe n you take hold of a bottle, g rasp it by the
middle and not around the neck, as that gives an ap-
p e~rance of awkwardn ess.
     A fter a rush of custom, take a towel in each hand
t o wip e the counter. By so doing you save h alf your
t ime.
                                 41

          Use judgme nt in e verything you do or say, as it is
    the secret of popularit) be hind the bar. For instance,
    two gentlemen e nte r and call for cocktails. Now you
    knO\v that one of the m des ires but little sweete ning.
    ·w hile the other likes more. Now your business is,
    a s far as possible, to please both. That is judgment.
     A g ain you will find some customers who appreciate a
    s mile from you, or a " How do you do?" or a remark
    about the state of weather, while another does not
    ca re to be spoke n to at all ; h e wants his drink, is will-
     ing t o pay for it, and the n d e parts. To discriminate
     between these different classes, and to treat them ac-
     cord ing ly, is judg ment.
          Do not be afraid to use both hands wheneve r you
     have an opportunity.
          Whe neve r you make a mixed drink of any kind,
     always prepare, in advance, the g lass which is to re-
     ce ive it.
          Whe n you make a mixed drink, avoid as far as
     p ossible, spilling wat e r o r ice upon the bar counter.
          N ever g ive a man a ny more drink when it is
     p e rceptible to you and others that he has already had
     e noug h. There is nothing to be gained by it in the end.
         vVh e n us ing two or more different kind s of liquor
    for mixed drinks, put each bottle back in its respective
    p lace befo r e fi nishing the d rink, a nd do the same with
    the jigger, spoo n, nutmeg box, e tc. ; otherwise y ou
    w ill fi nd the m in y our way should a rush come in
    sudde nl y.


r
     Some bartenders have heard that there was bitte r
;;yrup, or absinthe, or Curacoa, Benedictine, etc., in a
cocktail. vVell, they will take hold of the bitte r bot-
tle and squirt and squirt, then they do as much with
the other ingredients ; one squirt of each is sufficie nt.
A cocktail needs to . be flavored only,. not substitufe
.the ingredients for the liquors.
     When serving sherry and egg, pour a little sherry
 in the glass which ·is to receive your sherry and egg,
 and a little in a whisky glass into which you break
 the eg g first in case you should chance on a bad one,
 and it prevents the egg from sticking to the glass;
 it makes it easier to wash, and it looks more finished.
     When a man calls for some fine old brandy and
sugar, take a lump of sugar, cut it in half with the
nippers; with a little water crush it. To use that
powdered sugar with that fine brandy reminds me of
a man with a silk hat and a $T.50-pair of shoes.
     A treat, at the proper time and to the rig ht party,
has a wonderful influence. I have traced the times
where it has brought back five hundred per cent. the
 same day.
     Pony brandy and whisky should always be tipped
 over. I mean by that, after the liquor is poured into
 the pony glass bring the inside bottom of the whisky
 g lass with the top of the pony, the n turn it over, be-
 cause nine times out of ten they add water to it.
      A bsinthe should not be used in a drink whe rever-
  mouth is use d.
                                '"
                              43
    \tVhen se rving a hot lemonade, put ag lass of fine
ice on the side with a spoon.
    Water' should be g iven on the side of almost
everything except claret, Rhine wine, etc.
                  CLAR E T   ON T H E T OP .
     Claret on the top of a lemonade or a whisky sour,
 etc.: . Hold a · cocktail spoon floating on the liquid,
 then pour the claret slowly and it will spread itself
'o ver the drink and float.
     To give a napkin with every drink would be almost
 too much of a go.o d thing, but with every milk drink
 and eg g drink and Tom and Jer~y, it is essential.
                      O N T H E SIDE.
· . When serving apollinaris, Vv aukesha, or g inger
a le, etc., on the side, do not fill the glass ; half, or
two-thirds full will suffice, and save t e n per cent.
                      OPEN I N G P OP.
     When ope ning a bottle of pop, instead of striking
it under the top of the counter, hold it in your left
hand and with the end of the muddler in your rig ht
hit the pate nt wire cork ; it will make less noise and
giv e more satisfaction.
    When straining a cocktail and sour, while holdin<Y
                                              '          b
the g lass in your le ft and the mixing glass with its
conte nts in your rig ht, pour it out with as hig h a d is-
tance and as artistica lly as you can, so as to make a
distinction from other d rinks a nd to re mix the sli<Yh
                                                      b
                                                          t
a mo unt of wat e r which the ice h as made.
                              44
                         L E MO N ADE.
      A s to the apollinaris, I would recommend to fill
 the g lass only half full of apollinaris at first; stir it up
 and g ive vent to the fizz; Then fill it full of apollin-
 aris, stir again. Thus you will not spill any on the
 bar. While you have the strainer ove r the glass and
 a bout to strain it, tip the glass slightly so that whe n
 y ou place your forefin g er to retain the straine r on the
 t o p you will spare yourself from touching the liquid,
 a nd you will please any close-observing customer.
       Whe n a party of gentlemen approach the bar I
 do not think it proper to draw their atte ntion shouid
.they be busy talking, by saying, "What's yours ?" I
 think it would be more proper to do something else for
 a minute or so, or wait until th ey are ready to order.
      Hot drinks do not require a full jigg er of liquor,
a s in a cocktail or a sour, because the hot wate r draws
 its stre ng th to a great extent. So, by having a jig -
ger m a de one-fift!i or one-fourth small er than the
 reg ula r size, you .will save t e n per ce nt. There, you
w ill unconsciously, if you have a fair trad e, save for
yo ur e mployer during one year a good suit of clothes,
o r a seal-skin sacque for his wife. On many othe r
occasion s you can use the pony jigger, for insta nce,
w he n they call fo r a lig ht cocktail, sour, e tc.
                          A CARD.
    Every six m onths, h ereaft er, I sh all issue a circu-
lar co nta ining the la test drinks sin ce th e p ublicatio n
of t his book, a nd a ge ne ral criticism on ba r-te nding.
To accomplish this task, I shall immediately open
correspondence with leading bar-tenders of other big
cities of America. I also inform inventors of new
drinks, who will be so kind as to forward their
receipts, that their names will appear in the circular.
The above circular will be forwarded on receipt of
twenty cents to any address.
       HOW T O SERVE BASS' A N D SCOTCH      ALES.

     iVIany bartenders know exactly how to serve Bass'
ale in bottles.    But there are many more vvho do not
know how, and there are some who know hO\~ but
will not take the trouble to serve it right. Bass' ale
should be handled with care; when taken from the
ice box it should be held in a way that the movement
of your steps will not disturb the settlement in the
bottom; and when driving the corkscrew into the
cork hold it tightly with the left hand so as not to
allow the motion of the right, while driving the cork-
screw, to shake the bottle.           Then pou1~ it out
slowly. Scotch ale should be served the same way
and even with more care. -
      When mixing milk punch, egg nogg, sherry flip,
 etc.: when you put the sugar in the glass, put in a
 little water to dissolve the sugar first and stir with a
 spoon, then proceed with your drink.
    There are two different styles of Pousse Cafe glasses:
 the oval shaped and the ale glass shape; the latter is
 exactly like the stem ale glass, but only the size of a
 pony.
    When a party of two or more are drinkin bo- and
one of them calls for a fizz, either silver or plain,
mix it, with the exception of the seltzer, which you
should only add when everybody else is served so
they can drink all at the same time, and he will drink
hi s fi zz· while it is foaming.
     Authorsof' "Bartenders' Guides" may direct the way
of mixing drinks with a teaspoonful of thi s and squirt
of that, but good sound I 8 karat judgment will come
nearer the rig ht direction than all the ideas we can
give you.
     Never tru st a man for more than one round of
drinks, ·with but vert few exceptions.
     The Angostura and Reed's cocktail bitters are
the best bitters for cocktails.
               TO CLEAN THE COPPER.
   Take Easman & Brothers' kitchen crystal soap . .
Shave some of it with a knife all over the copper.
Then sprinkle some water over it and with a scrub-.
ing brush rub it very thoroughly, wipe it dry with
some towels. I think it is the best and most harmless
polish used.
                 T O CLEAN THE MIRROR.
    A wine glass full of ammonia to three quarts of
water. Then take three clean towels, dip one in the
preparation, wring it a little and wet the mirror,
and with another towel give it one wipe, and with the
third dry it thoroug hly.
                       NOTE.

      This little work is no thing more nor less than a n
e xplan a tion of the mode rn way of mixing drinks in
firs t-class s tyle only.
    It does not contain one hundred toasts, suitable to
all occasions, nor does it include a hundred recipes
for the manufacture of differe nt liquors, as do some
works of the kind, be cause any such matter is foreign
to the subj ect, and can b e of no possible account to
the barte nder in his avoca tion.
   A comp ounder of drinks behind the bar is not
supposed to manufacture his own liquors in the cella r
of his e mployer's establishment.
    A first-class bartende r belong s to a fi rst-class bar,
and bars of that kind are accustomed to purchase
their stock from the most responsible wholesale and
importing houses, and where the ages of their liquors,
which invariably run from three to ten years, is safely
g uaranteed.
    It is to the bartenders of this class of houses only
that I r efer this work.

                               THEO. PROULX.
                                         (Pron ou nced P r ew .)
                                 TABLE OF CON T ENTS.


                                                PAG R.                                                  PAGII .

Author's Pre face. ·· · · · · · . .. .. . 3                Gin Fizz . . ....... . ....... .. .. 19
Absinth e . . ..... · ··· ·· · ··· ·· · · 7                G in Puff. ..... . ... .. ·········· 19
Abs inthe S uisette. · · · · · ·..... . 7                  Golde n Slipper . . .. .. .. . . . . · · · 19
Absinthe, Plain. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7             H ow to S e rve Cha mpagne . . ··· 19
Absinthe Frappl'l. . ............ 7                        Half a nd H a lf, or' A lf a nd 'Alf. . 20
Apollina ris L e monade . .. .. .... 8                     H ot Whisky .... . ........ .. .. 20
Apollo Punch. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8              H o ney and Whisky .. . ... ..... 20
Arrack Punch . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 9             H ot Scotch..... .. .......... 2 1
Abs inthe Cockta il . .. · . ..... ... , 9                 Hot Spice d Rum . .... ... ..... . 21
Amaranth Cockta il. . . .                             9    H ot Perpermint. ... . . . ... .. ..... 2 1
Ale Sauga re r . . . · · · · ·. ·. .. . . . . 9            H o t Menthe . ................. 2 1
B lue Blaze r . ... ·· ·· · · · · ···· ··. 9               H ot S ling.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Burnt Brandy .. . , . . . . . . . . . . . . 10             Hari-Kari .. . . ... ..... . ...... 22
Beef Tea ...... ········· .. . . .. . 10                   Hot App le Toddy ...... .. . . . . 22
Bra nd y F loat. . ........... . .. . JO                   J e rs ey Cocktail ... ....... .. . . . 22
Ban;in a . . . . . ... . .. . .... . . .. . . . 11         Jim Go re Punch .. . . . ... . .. .... 22
Brandy F rappu. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11           J o hn Coll ins . ..... .. .. ·· . . . . ·· 23
Baltim o re Egg Nogg . .... . . . .. II                    l( nickerbocker .... . . . .. . . · .. · 23
Cock tail-\ Vhis k y . . . . . . . . . . . I 1             Kirsch . . ..... . .. . .. . ... · · · · · · 23
Champag ne Cocktail .. . .. ... . . 1 2                    L ~ n g try Punch. . . . . . . · · . . . · · · 23
Champao-ne Frappe .... .. .. . . . . 13                    Mmt Jul ep . ...... . . . . ..... · . 23
Cla re t Cobble 1· .... . ...... . ... 13                  Mi lk o r Cream Punch . ... . ... · · 24
C la re t Pu nch . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I 3   Milk Lem o n::1de ... ... ........ . 24
Clare t and Ice . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I 4      Maraschino a nd Brandy . . .. · . .. 24
C laret Win e . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14       Manhattan Cocktail. . . . . ." . . .... 25
C hocolate P unch. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14            IVl art ini Cocktail. ........... .. · 25
Chartre use. . . . . . .. .. . . . . . ... . 14            Me trop olitan Cocktail. .. .. . . ... 25
C lrnmpagn e Row! Punch. . . . . . I 5                     Old-Fashione d Cocktail . . ... ... 25
Curacoa Pu nch .. .......... . ... 15                      Por t.F lip ....... ... . .......... 25
Cin cinna ti o r Dutch Cocktail .. . IS                    Pony o f Whisky. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Clare t Cup . .. .. .... .. . . . ... ... 16               Pousse Caf6 . .. . ... . ... .. . . ... 26
Cha mpagne Flip . ..... .. ...... 16                       Pousse L 'Am o ur . .... ... . .. .. . 27
Durkees ... ... .. .. · ... .. . . .... 16                 Pha: nix Cocktail. .. . ...... . . .. 27
Egg N o gg ... . . · · · · · ·: · · · · · · ·. 17          Plain L e m o nad e .. ....... . . .. .' 28
Egg F li p, or Sherry fhp ....... 17                       Puritan Coole r. ..... ...... . ... 28
X. L. C. R.-E xcels1o r .. . ..... 17                      Pe rry Oyste r . .......... . ..... 28
 Egg Noo-O"-Bowl. .. ..... ... . . 17                      Plymouth Cocktail .. . ..... . . . 28
 F rozen :Pl?nch                                     18    Prohibiti o n, The . . . .. . . ... .. . 28
 Gen. H a rrison Egg Nogg . ... . 22                       Port \!Vine Sangaree .... ... . . .. 28
 Golden Fizz .. . .. .... .. . ...... 18                   Porter S a ng-a ree .. .. ... ... ... . . 29
 Gin Cockta il. .. . .... . ... ...... 18                  Roman Punch ..... ... . . . . ..... 29
 G in Punch ... . ................ 18                      R eed's Stomach Bitters....... 2~
 Gin Sling . .. ... .. . ···· ·· ·.· .. . 19               Rum Punch ..... . ...... . . . . .. . 29




                                                                   •.
                                   CONTENTS- CONTIN UE D.

                                               PA G B: .                                                PA CI! .
Ruins, e tc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29    T oddy, Old-Fashioned. .                       35
R ock a nd Rye . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29            Tobogga n .... . . · . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Rum Puff . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30        T urf Cock ta il. . .... . . .. . . . . .. . 36
Rum Punch - Bowl. .. . . . . . ... . 30                    T o dd y, P la in . ... . . . . .. . ... .... 36
R oyal Cockta il. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30           Velvet . . . .... .. .. . . ... . .. ..... 36
R a rnson Coole r . . , . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 l        Whis ky T o ddy-Mod e rn W ay . 36
S eve nth R egime nt Punch. . . . . . 30                   Whis k y S m as h .... . . . . . . .. . . . . 36
S el tz e r W ate r . .. . .. .. ..•..... . 31             Whis ky C rusta . . ... . . . . . .. . . . 37
S a ute rn e S a ngaree . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 l        White L yon ..... .. ... ... .. . . 37
St. Croix Rum Punch . . . . . .. .. 31                     W his ky F ix . . . . . .. . ... ....... . . 37
S h e rry Flip ... . . .. . . . . . . . ... . 31           Wh is ky Sour .. . .. . . . . ...... . . 37
Sil ve r Fizz . . .... . . . . .... . ... 32               \!Vhi s k y Punch, Plain... . .... . 38
S hand y G aff . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32        Whi sk y Punch, Uns tra ined .. .. 38
S od a L e m o nad e . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32        Whis ky a nd Mint. . . .. . .. .. , . . . 38
Sling .... . .. ... . . .... . . ..... . 32                \!Vhisky a nd T a nsy .. .. . . . ... .. 38
She rry a nd Bitte rs . . . ....... . . 32
Sh e rry a nd Ice . .. . . .. ..... . .. . 32                      MEDICINA L DRC N KS.
Stein way Punc h . .. . . ... · - · .. . · 33              An A pp etize r . . ..... ........ .. 40
S o ur Whi s ky .... . .. . .... . . . . .. 33             F o r H eadache . . .. . .. . .. . ... .. 39
S o d a Cockta il ..... . .... . ... 33                    For S tomac hac he .. . . .. . .... . · 39
Ste w . . . .. . · ·· ·· · . .. . .. .. .... · 33          ForDi a rrh cea .. . . . . . ... ... . . . . 39
Silver S o u r a nd Golde n S o ur .. . 33                 F o r a Co ld . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Sod a Ne cta r . . . ..... .. .. .. . .. . 33              For a Sour Sto m ac h ... . ... ... 40
S plit . . .. ... . · · · · . . . . · • · · · . . .. 34    For H iccough . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Solt T oddy ... .. . . · · · ... . ... . . 34              Mo rni ng A fte r Being Ineb riated 39
Swedi s h Punch . .. . ... . . . . . .. 34                 T o S ober U p On . . . . .. . . . .. .. 39
S ea Foa m.·· . . . .. ··· . · .. . .. . 34                To R e t a in th e F irst Mo rning
S a m W arc! · · · · . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34       Drink ... . .... .. . ....... . . . 40
Snow Ball.. ..                . . ..... .. ... 34          HINTS AND R E MA RKS . ... . . 4 0, 4 6
T o m a nd J e rry ... . .......... . 35                   NOTJ": . . . .. ... . .. . ... ... .... ... 47
,.
 .
 '·


' • .




      )
..
