Book   <k H-   -
                ,
                    -i'PJ^l^^D, BTiiT.EE.f

                ^'^^TMENT OF ^^^



THE ART OF DRINKING,

  .A.   iiiSTOiazo^^Xi szecetoh:.




                      FROM THE GERMAN OF




        a.    G.       GKRVINUS.


                      TRANSLATED FOR THE




UNITED STATES BREWERS' ASSOCIATION.




                         New York:
        UNITED STATES BREWERS' ASSOCIATION.
 By transffer

lAY 23 im
                                                                      /9
                 TRANSLATOR'S NOTE.                            "TSAi


     G. G. Gervinus (1805-1871)       is   recognized as one of the

foremost historians of Germany.            He was a man of marvel-
ous erudition.      His fame rests not only upon a great number
of profoundly learned works, but also upon his brilliant advo-

cacy of the constitutional rights of the people, as against the

reactionary tendency of the      German princes during Metter-
nich's despotic rule.      He was one of the seven celebrated
professors of the University of Gottingen          who boldly pro-
tested against the violation of the Constitution by the King of

Hanover.      His best-known works are "History of the Poet-
ical   Literature of the Germans," "History of the Nineteenth

Century,"     and   a   voluminous    commentary on     Shakspeare,

"made popular in England"       — the Encyclopaedia Britannica
                                 as

states
         — " by an excellent translation,"
     The following sketch was designed by Gervinus as an out-
line of what a history of potology would be, if conceived      and
executed by a philosophical mind.

     An English translation of this sketch needs no justification
in   our time.
''0^
                                                      r«f'"




                  THE ART OF DRINKING,
                                    A HISTORICAL SKETCH.


     A sketch of the art of drinking might seem to announce a
subject unworthy of a man whose energies have been devoted
to earnest purposes and serious aims in life.                 But it is not my
intention to make the sketch a                   mere treasure-box of all sorts
of curiosities,              nor to gratify thereby the curiosity of idle
readers.              When it is approached from a scientific standpoint,
the dignity of science must necessarily exclude                    all   frivolous
treatment,              as   well   as   all   shallow and superficial purpose.
Manv would be satisfied if an insignificant sketch of this
kind simply bore some pathetic motto, as these words of
Seneca's          :     Aniinuon aliquando dehemus relaxare et quibus-
dam oblectamentis reficere / sed ipsa oblectamenta ojpera sint.
I,   however, would scorn a justification of this kind, for I hold
that recreation ought    to be recreation, and not work, and
should consider it far better if our labors were pleasures, rather
than our pleasures, labors.
     I wish in this sketch to point out the importance and serious
significance of a work of this sort, and shall have, above all, to
prove that the apparently somewhat jocular subject has a very
serious side, and may be contemplated from a grave standpoint.
  If I succeed from the very first in inducing the reader to
adopt the same historical view of the matter that I take my-
self, I shall have             gained a great point, for he will then lay
aside all prejudice and preconceived opinion.                   The real histo-
rian    must be a stranger                 to all   prejudice and preconceived
opinion       ;       he cannot treat of any subject separately, but is        at-

tracted by everything in a certain order and connection.                      He
must not choose any subject from personal inclination, but
according to the needs and demands of his time and of human
society nor must he treat the chosen subject with that patho-
          ;
                                   6


logical interest and     sympathy so common among the writers
of the   New World. He must understand and know, from
historical experience, that in times like ours,        which have out-
grown the activity of imagination        — that   is to   say.   Art   — and,
                                                             —
on the other hand, are not yet ripe for speculation that is to
say, I^hilosophy,    —
                   universal observation, which includes all de-
partments of human activity, is the only thing that in these very
times and for this generation can furnish positive information
and prove a certain gain     The real historian, whose profession
                             .




it is to be equally interested in everything, thus becomes an

image of impartiality. The impartial observer is attracted by
all phenomena, and to him nothing appears small, insignificant

or unimportant, as soon as he begins to draw conclusions from
his observations and to discover laws in the physical as well as
the moral world. In the world of reason there exists nothing
small, accidental or unimportant.    If the same laws of chem-
ical combination govern immense masses of matter as well as
the smallest atom, if the march and development of mankind
are the same as those of the most insignificant individual, the
observation of the smallest as well as the greatest              is   of equal
importance, and man        may well feel comfort in the fact that
each hair upon his head is, indeed, numbered. This alone
might refute any serious objection to my theme.
   A history of oinology or potology would be able to show
that man, in satisfying a partly physical and partly intellectual
desire, is bound by the same laws that govern him in the
satisfaction of the highest needs of his striving mind.                And if
this be the case, the theme might be considered worthy of
being chosen by the most severe scientific moralist; and mat-
ters of this kind are apt to      be overlooked only because other
things appear comparatively more im]3ortant.               There is a his-
tory of wine and wine-drinking (for of these alone I speak),
because    it   is   connected   with   our   spiritual     development.
Wine itself shows a certain element of development and per-
fectibility   — a relation to organic   life in its   fermentation, and
a sympathetic feeling, as it were, in its movement during the
period of the blooming of the vine, while in the plant itself
it   shows an inner development.        I have just called wine-drink-
ing a partly physical, partly intellectual enjoyment, and                it   is

almost impossible to call up the image of any social gathering or
entertainment without it.         And since all human culture proceeds
from the manners and forms of society and social intercourse,
                                                —
we would plainly see in such a history what has often been
divined and pointed out, but also frequently smiled at that          —
wine is most closely connected with the civilization of States and
with the development of free human culture, and that the art
of drinking at all times keeps step with this culture and de-
velopment, and sinks or rises with them. For not at all times
have men practiced this art with equal wisdom, nor yet even
practiced it in like manner; and there is spiritual progress
from the blood-thirsty revels of ^gisthe to those of the phil-
osophers with Plato from the cup-bearer Hephsestos to Hebe
                          ;



and Ganymede from the heavy, dull metal cup to the trans-
                  ;



parent, rounded crystal glass, in Lucian's time, or our own,
which shows the color, retains the perfume and promotes
sound. As the culture of the grape is only found where a
higher human civilization has hegun to develop, it also shows
itself at once where a new civilization appears y it may he
even in regions unfavorable to it, where it is only culti-
vated till wine has hecome so great a want that it can no
longer he dispensed with, despite the lach of sufficient native
production.   The first cultivators of the vine, history praises
as benefactors    of      mankind and propagators of civilization.
Noah was      the elect of God, in spite of the improprieties
produced by his wine          ;   old Dionysos, for all the ravings of
his service, a kindly god ; and Urban, of the Middle Ages, a
saint, although   he committed the greatest misdeeds under the
influence of wine.         And wherever, on the other hand, in more
enlightened history, a man took an active part in the develop-
ment of human civilization, he did              so also instinctively, it
would seem, for that of wine        — be   it a.Heracles Ipoctonos   among
the Erj'thrseans      ;   or an    Alexander, who, withGreek  his
culture, brought the grape-vine  back to hot Babylon or a            ;



Charles lY., who, with his Italian education, wished to force
it upon cold Bohemia.    We shall see that wherever hier-
archical constitutions deprived the people of the advantages of
education, the    wisdom of the priests was          subtle   enough   to
forbid wine too, and the course of the Mohammedan hierarchy
will   show ns most plainly how the art of drinking brought
with it bold reformatory deviations from the laws.             We shall
observe, even with      Christian      nations,   how, among certain
races where the use of     wine was confined to the Communion
table, civilization also    came to a stand-still.       We can then
point to a patriarchal and hei'oic period of the art of drinking,
where wine, as was formerly done by the Gauls, and even by
our  own Suabian ancestors, was despised, and afterwards, by
all sorts of artificial means, made more substantial than it is

            —
by nature more like mead or beer, which is at such periods
the natural drink of the people.       At an aristocratic and
knightly epoch, in which society is unnaturally sublimated, it
is sought to increase and make more spiritual still the effect of

wine also, by the addition of spicy herbs. With the first civil
development of nations they return to simple nature; a num-
ber of corporations and brotherhoods make it their business to
watch over the art of drinking, over the purity of the wine
itself, and its lawful use; from king to beggar, all cultivate

the cheering    art, just as all    are anxious, also, for spiritual en-
lightenment.      We see, then, in the last centuries the pedantic
return to tea and cofiee, and among those nations who have
shared but in very small measure in the intellectual progress
of Europe, we find that the coffee-house (cafe)        — an institution
which is scarcely a century and a half old          —almost crowded
out the wine-saloons.
     I have alluded to wine-drinking as a partly intellectual       and
partly physical enjoyment.           Among material enjoyments, it
is one of the most spiritual; among spiritual ones, one of
the most material, keeping about the right middle course.              A
history of the art of drinking would prove this. Everywhere
in the history of nations          we shall come upon times where
amid a fulness of physical power, the desire for more refine-
ment in outward life, as well as a striving for greater inner
perfection, began to manifest itself.     In Germany, the
time of the Reformation was such a period.               And at such
times, when outer and inner powers begin to stir with wonder-
                                         9

fill   energy   — times     as yet   divided between old roughness and
new humanity; between the coarse, ordinary fare of every
day for mind and imagination, and the new hope of some finer
nourishment          —   at such times the genial enjoyment of wine, and
the delights of regular social pleasures, have always struck
deepest root and had freest play.    Such images as those, this
 history would most willingly depict; nor would it be super-
 fluous to present them in our day, when society seems more
 and more to forget that its aim is to be simply pleasure and
.recreation.   The future seems to offer nothing that could take
 the place of the great simplicity of past manners       of those
                                                             ;


 feasts of youth which asked nothing but uncontrolled enjoy-
 ment of those evening entertainments of the citizens, which
        ;



 were devoted to their immediate surroundings in house or
 community of the frank and manly rectitude of that race
                 ;



 which seemed, indeed, to find truth and constancy in wine,
 and its best pleasures in an afternoon spent in the "wine-
 garden," surrounded by wife and children, relatives and
 friends.   All public pleasure has disappeared from among us,
 and we arrange parties and receptions that only tire ourselves
 and others. Ceremonious etiquette gives us work and trouble
 w^hen we should find recreation, and fatigues our minds when
 imagination should have free play. Only where men, here
 and there, permit them.selves to meet about the bottle, accord-
 ing to the good old custom, and where no committee is neces-
 sary to approve of the toasts, pure, genuine pleasure revives
 once more, together with the pure, genuine art of drinking.
 For there is no intellectual power that is so directly quickened
 and strengthened by any nourishment as imagination is by
 wine.    Tea keeps conversation within the bounds of pedantic
 propriety, and beer soothes but checks quick repartee; but wine
 sharpens the sting of wit, stimulates spirited conversation, and
 brightens the whole social atmosphere.       The poet, who lives
 in imagination, and turns his back upon reality, was always a
 lover of wine       —
                  the beverage which intensifies reality, and, at
 the same time, lifts him above it.    The drinking-song, from
 Anacreon down to all his imitators in Germany, occupies a
 special and very prominent place in literature.     To wine are
                                  10

dedicated the first productions of the tragic art and to it has
                                                     ;




been assigned a particular dithjrambic measure, which a poet
who should set water above wine could never soar high
enough to make his own. And whosoever has any cause to
turn away from the real world, and longs for the freedom of
living in an ideal one, is fond of wine.    If I wished to spoil
my idyllic picture by satire, I should here name the converts
and the monks; but I should rather call up the wandering
beggar, whom want and hardship have made weary of the
world.   Sleep has been praised as the friend of poverty but    ;



there were times when wine also was called its friend, which,
even in waking hours, calls up dreams that charm away the
burden of a miserable existence. For wine tempts even the
beggar to extravagance, that vice which has often been set
down to the account of wine although, if there be such a
                                   ;



thing as degrees in vice, it      may be called one of the nobler
ones.    And   this genial pleasure in   spending helps the poor
man in his misery consoles him for his destitution offers
                     ;                                      ;



him who is homeless a spot where he may feel comfortable,
and teaches him to forget all that oppresses him. Wine makes
man liberal and generous the offered cup was formerly
                              ;



the symbol of hospitality granted, and even the miser is more
ready to share tobacco and wine than any of his other posses-
sions.  For it makes us communicative and confidential in
                     founds friendships, and is still the sym-
social intercourse; it
bol of brotherhood. If it sometimes stirs up heat and dissen-
sion, it also smooths the   way to union again   ;   and, formerly,
no reconciliation could take place without having a seal set
upon it by a common cup of wine. At your cup you find the
freest and most enlightened spot in the world, where you may
not only think what you please, and say what you think, but
where your thoughts themselves take the highest flight man is
capable of.   I do not know whether it is due to jealous gods
that the excessive enjoyment of wine proves its own penalty.
Without this depressing fire in the wine itself, it seems to me
heaven and its secrets would be far more endangered by the
spiritual flight of the drinker than by the towering rocks of
the Titans.    Thus, wherever despots and hierarchs intended
                                                                           —


                                    11

to keep nations in drowsy stupidity, they forbade wine.                  Only
at times, when liberty and enlightenment were common prop-
erty, when no castes possessed an exclusive monoply of
wisdom, right or might, was it possible to introduce political
discussion at the cup.      For only at such times of universal
public spirit and feeling could one take counsel of the im-
agination in practical affairs and matters of State, and hope
for such results of the evening discussiorT^at the cup as would
bear the test of the sober next day's light. For only such heroic
conditions as are represented by the Germans and Persians of
ancient times can really show the virtues of truth and faith-
fulness, and in the most public concerns could hear the voice
that always speaks in wine and, in those days, no one needed
                                ;



to fear that wine would impel him to speak truth too freely.
Only nations of really active nature, who called manliness and
war-power by the name of virtue, could do full honor to wine,
and it could only be a Greek who asked, as did Aristophanes:
    " Dost thou boldly venture to say wine is not good for our reason ?
     Wliat more than wine impels us to deeds and to action?
     Why, look you, as soon as men are drinkers of wine, then
     Rich are they all and active, victorious in law-courts  ;


     Aye, very happy too, and to their friends useful."

  Among the Germans, too, it has long been    customary to
                             and there was no betrothal, no
settle all business with a drink,
bargain, and no compact that was not accompanied by the
purchase of wine.      All German history is filled with the love
of wine.   When the German border-line was first drawn, the
Germans insisted on keeping the left bank of the Rhine, on
account of its richness in grapes. They wrote books about
the national disposition to drink ; they divided their history
according to drinking periods, and old proverbs              call   the love
of drink the    German national vice, as theft          is       that   of the
Spaniards, deceit that of the Italians, and vanity that of the
French.  Kowhere exist wines so capable of purity as the
German wines, and no real German will ever compare with
their genuine wine-qualities those of the tricky southern
wines; and nowhere have mixtures been- so carefully avoided,
as well as the purity of the art of drinking, and the old drink-
                                    12

ing customs so scrupulousl}^ preserved, as in Germany.            Only
in Germany could be conceived the idea of a history of the art'
of drinking.      Perhaps the fates have ordained      me to be the
historian of wine, in the very meaning of my name         — ger-M'in,
not ger-win.      And perhaps some readers may be found for it
in Germany who do not consider it too indelicate to speak or
to read of the natural needs of man.          Let man never, in   fool-
isli    pride, think himself above his own natural wishesand en-
joyments, for it is the reasonable care given to these which
keeps him close to human nature. As long as a people cannot
live on newspaper reading and on staring about in public
places, as do Frenchmen and Italians, it keeps its hands busy,
its powers actively employed, and its eyes open, and wherever

active powers are astir, no nation is in so very bad a condition.
I should be well content if I could bring before active and
manly minds a cheerful picture of those manly enjoyments,
and induce them to taste of this somewhat coarser fare, in
addition to the delicate dishes of our literature.

                                    I.

                    The Fatheeland of "Wine.
   I would only here and there touch         upon the botanical and
industrial culture of the grape, as many very valuable works on
the subject already exist (among others, Henderson's " History
of Ancient and Modern Wines "), which make almost a com-
plete literature of wine.     I shall also speak of the home of the
grape only for the sake of preserving the natural order of
things, and shall touch later upon the mythical origin of wine,
or the preparation of wine.      If we look for the original
country of the grape, we shall find that here, too, as in almost
every other branch of culture, the western highlands of Asia
are pointed out to us, whether we follow the fable of Father
l^oah, the IsTyssean Bacchus, or the researches of the natural-
ists.The latter teach us that on the Canary Isles and in
America the grape gi'ows not so much wild as in a degenerate
condition; but in the southwest of Europe, for instance the
Italian woods, it is here and there found growing really wild         ;



that in the southeast this   is   still   more common, and in Asia
                                   13

ever on the increase.      It is singular that at the Ararat, to which
Jewish tradition also points, Tournefort, in his "Journey to
the Levant," discovered a regular workshop of the European
plant, and on the borders of transcaucasian Georgia he saw the
land covered with wild grape-vines and fruit-trees.      In the
Caucasus, Marshall found the grape flourishing independently
in the forest and covering whole trees, and we see in the rough
and indifferent manner in which the inhabitants of these coun-
tries harvest and treat the grape that      they consider it a very
common product.           The manner in which they preserve the
wine, and the quantity they daily consume, prove the same,
and   this   entirely agrees   with what Xenophon tells of the
preservation    of the     wine in cisterns. Elphinstone, in his
report on Cabul, relates that the Sultan presented           him with
grapes that grew without cultivation in his country.             And not
only the     quantities    of the wild grapes in those countries
induce us to regard them as their native soil,         it   is   also the
excellent quality of the cultivated grape in Persia.         The quan-
tity and quality of the Persian      wine opposed in this respect an
effective barrier   to the laws of the     Koran, which enjoined
against the enjoyment of the beverage, even in the Orient,
which is so set in its religious rites and ceremonies. Olivier
preferred the grapes about Ispahan to      all he had tasted in

Greece, on the islands of the Mediterranean, and in Syria.
None, he says, equals the Kismish, which bears a berry of
middling size, without seeds and with a thin skin. Shiraz,
rich in poets, is celebrated on account of the excellence and
plenty of its wine and its fine air, and Morier, in his
" Journey through Persia," places the wine of Kazwin even
above that of Shiraz, and the former city is so beautifully
situated in so mild a climate that the Persians have given it
the name of "Paradise." In regard to the fruitfulness of
the vine, Strabo tells us that in Hyrcania one vine was
apt to yield about thirty-three quarts of wine. In Margiana
were said to be vines measuring at the base of the stem two
fathoms in circumference and bearing grapes two yards long.
In Asia the fruitfuhiess is said to be still greater, and there
the wine keeps, in unpitched vessels, through three generations.
                                         14


                                        II.

        Wine is not Domesticated Among the Negroes.
  The course from east to west, marked hj the higher cult-
ure of the human race, has been also closely followed by the
culture of the grape.            Other regions, north and south from
the boundary            marked out, may have had a certain share in
that civilization; but it seems now to be proved that the
negro races, the original inhabitants of Africa, have not in
any way been connected with it.                    In those regions of Africa
always inhabited by these races, no grape-culture is, up to the
present day, to be found ; and, both in ancient and                  modern
times, the grape has been a stranger in Africa, and a stranger
scarcely to be called naturalized anywhere.                 To that king of
the long-lived Ethiopians in Herodotus, to                  whom Cambyses
sent his gifts, wine, therefore, seemed the only desirable thing
they possessed, and to it he ascribed the brief old age which, in
the best case, it was given the Persians to attain.              His negroes,
therefore, were not acquainted with wine, and in this they were
like all uncivilized people, as we shall frequently see ;            nor did
they ever accept it, any more than they accepted any other part
of civilization     ;   they never advanced any further than to their
TowaJc, the palm-wine made of flower-stems; even the lotus-
wine, of the preparation of which Herodotus knew, seems to
belong only to the Libyans.               Only emigrants, in the most
ancient as well as most recent times,                  have introduced the
grape-vine at different times into Africa, and                we will briefly
glance at   this.        First, the   Egyptians must be named, Cauca-
sian races not autochthonically at home in Libya.                The ancient
culture of the grape in Egypt     proved not only by histor-
                                              is

ical documents, but even by the ruins of old buildings, and I

shall return to the paintings in the vaults near El Kab,
which represent, among other things, the manner of gather-
ing the grapes, and of preserving and cooling the wine.
Several regions are specially mentioned as celebrated for their
wine.     Eleithya had grape-culture; the lakes of Mareos and
Taenia, where all is now a barren desert, were commended for
their wine; Alexandria exported wine to Rome, and Horace is
                                        15

acqiiainted with that of Mareos,             To the Epicureans, however,
the Falerniai] wine seemed              better when treated in the Egyp-
tian manner     and the wine of Taenia was considered stronger
                 ;



and spicier than the Alexandrian. Bnt even in the time of
Ahenseos this culture had almost disappeared, and only that
of Antylla still had a good name in those days.   And even in
better times, the native wine does not seem to have sufficed for
home consumption, for Herodotus speaks at length of imported
wine from Hellas and Phoenicia. The Libyans and Berbers
probably never knew a grape-culture of their own without
foreign aid.         It is certain that in old times the colonies of the
Greeks and Carthagenians in the north of Africa were full of
the grape    ;and we shall find further on that the cnlt of
Bacchus was widespread in Cyrenaica, and that traces of it
still remain in the ruins.   Pliny speaks of vineyards as traces
of ancient civilization in the mountains of Dyris (Atlas); and
there are still, more lor the sake of the grapes than the^wine,
vineyards near Tunis, in the rich district of Derna, as well as
the poor one of Mafa, in Fezzan.                In Mauritania, as Strabo
reports, were found grapes a yard in circumference.                    In the
oases, Belzoni saw grapes, and in that of Siwah they are excel-
lent, as other southern fruit also.             In recent times the Por-
tuguese brought the            grape,    with   other   fruit,   as   well        to
Madeira and the Canary Isles as to Abyssinia.         There the
poorness of the plant itself, no less than the peculiar use of it,
shows plainly what a stranger it is. Thus, also, among the
Griquas it is cultivated by the missionaries only, who, confin-
ing, as they are wont, all civilization which they offer to the
elements of Christian religion, give to grape-culture also only
a Christian significance, planting the vine merely for its use
at   the   Communion         table.     The celebrated Cape wine             is   a
different matter.         Enlightened French emigrants, Protestants
driven from home by the Edict of Nantes, first planted the grape
there; but it is not certain whether the vines came both from
Persia and from the Rhine, or only from Shiraz. The climate
seems there to favor the culture of the grape extremely the              ;



soil, however, appears most unfavorable, and Colebrooke, in

his work on the condition of the Cape of            Good Hope, ascribes
                                               16

the earthy taste, which makes the Cape wines unpleasant, to a
substratum of the               soil,   otherwise rather good, consisting in
many places of layers of clay and sand that has been washed
up.      And what is not spoiled by the soil, seems to have been
spoiled by the indolence of the Dutchmen, or some other dis-
advantage with which the African country is cursed.                        A sort
of fairy-tale is told of the totally wrong                  manner of planting
the   first vineyard ;          and still not even the example of the far
better Constantia wine has induced                    men to make vineyards in
rockier spots.


                                              III.

The Degenerate Culture of the Grape and the Art of
                                Drinking IN China.

  If the            learned   men of China can be trusted, the grape-
vine jpaust have been             known in their country more than a
thousand years B. C. They refer to this in old books, the
" Tshu-ly " and the "Shi-King;" but as to the latter, that
seems everywhere to refer to- the wine made of various grains,
which is almost exclusively used in China.
  At all events, it seems to be proved by the most trustworthy
witnesses that rice-wine                is   older in China than the wine of
grapes    ;   for while the highest age that can be assigned to wine is
only given           bj'   the doubtful testimony of the supposed author
of the         ''
                    Tshu-Kang, who mounted the throne
                    Tshu-ly,"
1122 B. C, the invention of rice-wine is set down to the
Dynasty Hia, 2209 (1716 B. C). This also accords with expe-
rience        elsewhere,       for beer of various kinds (and the grain-
wines of the Chinese are nothing else, except that thej fre-
quently mix them with                   all sorts    of fruit, including   grapes)
everywhere became the national drink in advance of wine, as
brandy and other liquors follow wine. Grape-brandy has, it
appears, been known in China only since the seventh century of
our era, but is now a favorite beverage with the common China-
men, and is drunk by them warm and almost                            as strong as
alcohol       in large quantities, in spite of              its   very unpleasant
taste.        For only a comparatively short time the grape-culture
                                  17

seems to have flourislied in China.        The Chinese always
 have had their grain-wines and their brandy more at heart.
 The inventor of the rice-wine was, it is true, banished by the
Emperor Yn-te, because he well foresaw the sad consequences
of its use, and yet the beverage has kept its place to the
present day as an ornament of the Chinese table. It is like
this people, who live on nothing but that water-plant, rice, and
tea, to cling with the same obstinacy as they do to all old
•orders and customs, to this beverage, which is something
between brandy and water, and taken neither hot nor cold.
These wines are said to have a very bad effect they fatten at
                                                       ;



first, but then bring on consumption, entire loss of appe-

tite, and at last complete emaciation and death.         It was
natural, therefore, that the paternal Emperors, who looked
after their subjects as after real children, and in whose laws
dietetics always played a great part, should forbid these in-
jurious beverages, and several of the Emperors set the good
example.      The third Emperor of the Dynasty Mant-shu,
Yong-Tsheng, devoted one of his ten commandments to this
subject, and the great Kanghi says in his writings that, despite
his pleasure in them, he never became accustomed to wine and
spirits.  At feasts and ban'quets he only touched it with his
lips, and so might well boast of not drinking any at all.

Moreover, this wine consumes a great deal of grain, which in
a densely peopled country, whose very existence depends upon
its supplies of grain, is a matter of some importance, so that

perhaps from this higher standpoint also there was good
reason for the prohibition.     But the most important reason
lies deeper still, and was still more carefully considered  and   ;


as this chiefly concerns the wine from grapes, we must
first cast   another glance at grape-culture.
'   We have seen above that grapes existed of old in China.
The just-mentioned        learned,     philosophical       and   humane
Kanghi himself shows, in his remarks on natural history in
China, that grapes came to China from the West, and
that before his time but few kinds had existed in China,
and boasts that he had sent for three new varieties to Ha-mi,
as he would rather introduce a new fruit into his country than
                                     18

"build a    hundred porcelain towers.          He observes, also, that
these grapes degenerate        in the south, but          do well        in   the
north    in, dry   and stony soil.        The experiences of        the mis-
sionaries in Pekin, however,         were unfavorable      ;   the soil       was
against them, as well as the remarkably rough climate, and
possibly they went to work awkwardly in other respects also.
For it is certain that these very southern provinces once had
many   grape-vines, and the wine made in Shan-si, Shen-si,
Petshe-ly, Shantong, Honan and Hu-Kuang, put into well-
closed vessels and buried in the ground, could be preserved
for years.     This goes to prove an observation we shall often
find repeated, that after a time the most    favorable soil no
longer suffices for the grape, whichdemands a certain youth-
ful   power in the soil in which it is to flourish most luxu-
riantly.     In the older and middle ages of China we therefore
find the grape-wine mentioned in all their songs,              and that of
the river    Kiang is specially praised.          It is   known       that at
difierent    periods     were introduced from Samarcand,
                       vines
Persia, Thibet, Kashgar, Turfu and Ha-mi, and the annals
themselves plainly mention wine under the reign of Emperor
Wu-ty, Dynasty Han, 140 B. C. From there we can follow
up its use almost from reign to reign, and after the already-
mentioned Kanghi, the last dynasty shows still more rulers who
introduced new grapes from distant countries, so that the
southern provinces begin to restore their old grape-culture
again.      But the grapes in Ha-mi and Shan-si seem mostly
to be used      for raisins, and what we occasionally hear of
their    condition in    Hoai-lai-hien    —that   their    berries       are of
gigantic size, like plums, with a thick skin, and that their
size is not so much due to the climate as to the fact              that the
vines are grafted on mulberry-trees,           and that they ripen as
early as April,      May and June — all this seems highly char-
acteristic of a     degenerate culture, and gives us the poorest
 possible    opinion of the wine that might be                 made       there.
Highly, therefore, as the Jesuits attempt to praise grape-
 culture in China, we can yet have but little belief in it           ;   but in
 the Middle Ages it must have been all the more brilliant.                    The
reports concerning it are, however,          wrapped in a certain ob-
                                19


scurity, from which no fact stands out clearly.           The grape, it
is said,   flourished only too well in   China   —   it   caused various
revolutions.    As   often as the   Government had ordered the
destruction of such trees as obstructed the grain-fields, the use-
less grape-vine was also included, and, if       memory served the
reporters,    that plantwas several times specially mentioned.
It is certain  that the destruction  .of the vine in most of the

provinces, under various reigns, was carried so far that even
the recollection of it was lost, and this induced the belief
that the grape had been brought to China but recently from
the Occident. It is plain that there was always a pretense
put forward that the grape-wine detracted from the culture of
the grain, although, with some care, the same area might
probably have yielded a nobler beverage than was made of the
rice and barley, grown where the grape had been rooted out.
But the intellectual effect of it was evidently feared. In so
regular a clock-work as the Chinese State, what might be
more dangerous than irregular movements so very easily pro-
duced by wine in the heads of people ? Even the making
of the grape-wine was often prohibited.       When that did not
avail, its use was limited to feasts, banquets and sacrifices, and

to guests and infirm old age.    Not enough with this, at such
feasts a special Mandarin was set over even the princes of the
blood to keep watch over and not permit them to drink more
than three glasses. And still more, certain ceremonies were
prescribed, long healths and salutations, circumstantial rites,
at which a free-thinker, as the Jesuits say, may laugh, but in
in which a philosopher must admire the wisdom of the law-
giver, and the subtlety with which he banished intemperance,
 and that injudicious freedom of speech which is its inseparable
 companion, from among the people          !  We have seen the
 effects of grain-wine in China.      The wise Emperor Kanghi
 complains that it makes one stupid and dull and confuses the
 brain.   And how much more terrible still must have been the
 effect of the grape-wine  ! This is probably meant in a certain
 book of the Dynasty Tshu, where it is said in warning ex-
planation of the well-founded apprehensions of the Chinese
Government, that if a spirit of rebellion and insurrection was
                                              —   ;   ;                         — ;




                                     20

then rife among the people of China,     if they had lost mnch

of their old virtues  and principles, the cause of it must be
sought solely in the effects of wine. Away, therefore, with
that cursed boldness which betrays a tongue set free by wine
that noisy action and damnable confidence in one's own
strength; that rising of the spirit, which must have appeared
to the learned Emperor as synonymous with confusion         the             ;


impudent overstepping of the good old laws of etiquette; the
wild breaking away from the good old ruts          How should     !




not all this, which was inseparably connected with wine, seem
to the philosophical head of the State in his immovable peace
and calmness, and to the council of his ministerial pedants,
extremely dangerous to the State, and worthy of being an-
nihilated to the last trace?        l^eed we be surprised, therefore,
at the stories of abstinence told of              the Emperors?        It       was
their duty to give a good example to the people.                      Had not
their prophet, Confucius, left these              words of moderation
that coarse rice for food, and water for drink, and the curved
arm for a pillow, were enough for happiness               !




  And thus the Governments of China succeeded in estab-
lishing,   even in very early times, a condition of submissive
decency everywhere.      They confined wine to festive occa-
sions, and we learn from the "Shi-King" that to the guest
was granted the honor of the cup; even to him, however,
in but the spare measure that chimes with the sordid miser-
liness of the Chinaman, who could never have understood the
art of drinking, if for no other reason than because, he has
nothing of the liberality which the Orient calls the " flowing
hand."     They say in a guest-song       :




            "   A noble guest lias come beneath our roof      ;



                For liim melodious tunes were played.
                So long as thus it pleased our guest,
                And with the cup I sought to cheer him.

            " The sound of music rang incessantly,
                And ever was the cup kept full
                And in our honor did he empty it
                The wine was light and pure, and harmed him not."
                                  —                  ;           —


                                             21

And in another place          :




               "A liare is roasting on tlie spit
                A pumpkin leaf we go to pick             ;



                A banquet we prepare our guest,
                And fill liis cup with wine the best."

  We have seen from, other authorities that wine was chiefly
reserved to old age, and here it is confirmed                :




             " Serve round the circle the wine-cup, ye bearers ;
              With the spiced wine the aged refresh them             ;



              In it their youth and their vigor reviving,
              But your own youth surely needs no concoction."

  Even at the feasts where wine was permitted, its use was
limited by cautions restrictions.                 AH meals and banquets were
subjected to rules of etiquette almost as rigorous as those which
the Court is accustomed to give its ambassadors.   The careful
law is extended to the very preparation and serving of the
viands, and everywhere^ clips the wings of the art of cooking
and of drinking. If the Emperor U-tse gave his warriors a
banquet to gain their favor, he still preserved the most rigid
order of rank in the seating, and the food and the drink; and
the   Emperor Tsi-she-hoang is praised for                       restoring the old
invitations and banquets, where every single ceremony took its
dne course in beginning and end, so that a modest and decent
joy beamed in all eyes.   To give a model for domestic feasts,
they order public ceremonies in all the cities Mandarins pre-    ;



side at them the law invites scholars and distinguished citizens
                 ;


to them  ;and here, too, the rites are prescribed down to the
minutest detail.        The- chief object of these feasts is to signal-
ize merit, to preserve morality,                  and the friendly as well as
conventional proprieties.                 The President reads aloud for that
purpose, in the name of the Emperor, certain paragraphs of the
law, the introduction to which specially calls to mind that the
gathering is not really made for the sake of the enjoyment of
meat and drink, but to revive loyalty to the Prince, and more
to the same effect and all their songs and pieces of music
                          ;



have reference to that.               A
                           single drinking-song, of somewhat
more liberal spirit, I found in the " Shi-King,'' but in that
the translator may possibly have had a large share, especially
                                                — —                      —


                                          22

in regard to the form.           The contents are very characteristic of
Chinese poetry in general, whose bare realism offers a remark-
able contrast to that of the Orientals               :




                 '
                     '   Water, the fresh,
                         Is drunk by the fish
                         The carps and the pikes         ;



                         And each noble knight
                         At the board
                         Drinks water pure and bright.

                 " Water, the fresh,
                         Is drunk by the fish
                         The eels and the salmon         ;



                         You sad fellows all
                         At the board,
                         Drink, till for more ye shall call.

                 " Water, the fresh,
                         Is drunk by the fish
                         The perch and the barbel            ;



                         Ye good chums of mine
                         At the board,
                         Now drain ye the pearl of the wine.
                 " Water, the fresh.
                         Is drunk by the fish
                         The trout and the merlin            ;



                         But we boys gay and bold
                         At the board
                         Drain waves of the wine untold."


  Bnt, even in their highest ecstasy, the brave drinkers still
preserve a sort of calmness          ;   and if there is anything that can
be called a sober intoxication, this seems to be excellently
expressed in the following very characteristic song                  :




             " Now our guests are growing tipsy                  ;



              Decency is at an end         ;



              Sparks from out their eyes are darting.
              And the babbling tongues unbend.

             " Crooked caps shake back and forward,
              Hung but by a single hair          ;



               Stiff old legs the dance are trying.
              Hoarse old voices sing out fair.
                                     23

             "   At the first cup wliicb tliou drainest,
                 Didst thou seem transformed to me           ;


                 If another now thou'dst empty,
                 Wholly tipsy would st thou be.
             " Truly thou dost shame me sorely
                                                     ;



                 Sober quite you see I stay  ;



                 But if thou wilt take me homeward,
                 Lead me gently on the way.
             " True, thou lead'st me into ditches,
                 But my own head reels at last.;
                 Hold me by thy arm supported,
                 By thy pig-tail hanging fast."

  With this extreme point of drinking                    I       will close.     This
dull intoxication is about what a warm grain-wine would pro-
duce, and   fits   the disagreeable character of the Chinese as
well as the anecdote occurring in another song,                        where one
whose invited guests do not appear                 at the right            time,      is

actually rejoiced to think he          may now drink up                  his    wine
alone.   The value of wine for social enjoyment can scarcely
be known there, where conventionality ties the tongues, where
there is a tribunal of ceremonies, and where the tea-kettle is
forever on the fire, which among us, too, fosters only em-
broidery, gossip and nervous debility.  And then the greedy
desire for physical enjoyment is the one thing which makes
the Chinaman love his wine and his spicy concoctions, and
which in this point has ever driven him into a never-before-
heard-of opposition against his Government. How dreadful it
is, however, to see these crude and childish remnants of anti-

quated customs most closely knit now with the most refined
and elaborate tastes, wants and habits thus in vogue among
the people, together with secret and most pernicious vices, and
yet to find that not a single voice can be raised against                      it,   be-
cause, with the most subtle cunning,             down to the very limits
of physical needs, every expression of indignation or of joy
has been forbidden by law        !
