1
'.%• ■'■ ' '   ' ■ ■/■ N'.^.-   ■ . ';y •
                                            , , ,,      t
                                            ^ X''A:/-r
                                                  ■ i''. .
                                 lV'\:;lvA;. ■■, .
                                                             ' '\ 'iM
                         1




i. ; k-..^ ..',• r...M
L'H-




  ',V' '•




            w^..
             ..r-'   '..




                           H   *
< I
                   t




                ERYTHROXYLON COCA.
{Specimen of a branch grown in a hot-house, property of Mr. Mariani.)
            COCA
                      AND   ITS




        THERAPEUTIC APPLICATION

                         BY




              ANGELO MARIANI




!   I
                                           »




              WITH ILLUSTRATIONS




                  NEW       YORK
              J. N. Jaros, 52 W. isTH St

                         1S90
I,   '




                                • f. ;



                           i,


                                y,               ",.

                                '         ■'''
                  !•   0




                                         ri'"--'V > • 'V         ?. •

                                  !                . ;i' ;,
                                i « SL:* X ;.«•»'/.■? <: ■.-• Vi.-.,,- -.' .v.


         .'W.Pu
             V '•    ,   V /

                    V'' - '■
. fit'.AWl          ■,




                    These pages are inscribed and respectfully dedicated
      to those learned gentlemen of the medical profession
      who have so kindly aided me in my efforts to popularize
      that valuable addition to therapeutics, Ei^T-throxylon
      Coca.

                                                   A.   MARIANI.
           %




              OUTLINE OF COCA PLANT.
   (Showing leaves and seeds. Nos. I and 2, Coca leaves seen by
                        transmitted light.)

  All illustrations in this volume have been specially pre
pared for this work, and are from original drawings from
life by M. Mariani.
                    INTRODUCTION.


              lACH race lias its fashions and fancies. The
                Indian munches the betel; the Chinaman
            woes with passion the brutalizing intoxi
            cation of opium; the Knropean occupies his
  idle hours or employs his leisure ones in smoking,
  chewing or snufi&ng tobacco.                     Guided by a happier
  instinct, the native of South America has adopted
  Coca. When young, he robs his father of it; later
   on, he devotes his first savings to its purchase.
   Without it he would fear vertigo on the summit of
   the Andes, and weaken at his severe labor in the
   mines. It is with him everywhere; even in his
   sleep he keeps his precious quid in his mouth.
       But should Coca be regarded merely as a mastica
   tory ? And must we accept as irrevocable the decision
   of certain therapeutists: "Cocaine, worthless ; Coca,
   superfiuous drug"? (i)
      For several years laryngologists such as: Fauvel,
   of France; Morell Mackenzie and Lennox Browne, of
        (i) Nothnagel et Rossbach, Nonveattx Elements de TJuh'apeiitique,




;'A .
                           -- 6 —


 England; and Elsberg, of America, had undertaken
 the defense of Coca.
    Under such patronage Coca and its preparations were
 not slow in becoming popular.
     Charles Eauvel was the first to make use of it as a
 general tonic, having a special action on the larynx;
 and to make known its anaesthetic and analgesic quali
 ties.
      Coca was further recommended, as it were erhpiric-
 3-lly, against stomatitis, gingivitis, gastric disturbances,
 and phthisis (Rabuteau), Elemejtts de therapeutzque
 et de pharmacologie.
    Although striking effects were obtained from this
valuable medicine, its full worth was yet unknown
and there was diversity of opinion as to its mode of
action, until the communications of Kbller, of Vienna,
on Coca and Cocaine, appeared in 1884.
   These interesting publications led to such general
discussion among medical men, that nearly every one
eagerly followed the work, and watched the splendid
results obtained by the Viennese physician (now Pro
fessor of Ophthalmology in New York Polyclinic).
   It is found that studies made of the active prin
ciples of Coca have entirely corroborated our pre
visions, and probably no subject has received greater
attention than have the virtues of this little Peruvian
shrub, formerly looked upon in Europe with so much
indifference.




                                          (.



                               I- fi-i'        f •
   Tlie scientific study of tlie principles of Coca may be
considered as completed; and we believe that the time
bas arrived in wbich to summarize data regarding
tbis therapeutic agent, so tbat tbe employment of our
preparations may be based on positive clinical ex
perience.
   Tbe aim of tbis modest work is to offer to tbe medi
cal profession a sbort account of tbe history of Coca,
and of tbe investigations which it bas called forth up
to tbe present da}/-.
   We propose to divide our subject into five parts.
   1ST.     We will describe tbe botanical character of
Coca, and also speak of its culture and tbe mode of
gathering it.
    2D. Its history, its properties and uses.
   3D. Tbe physiological researches made in tbe
domain of Coca, devoting a special chapter to Cocaine.
   4TH. Its therapeutic application.
    Finally we will quote some general conclusions
and explanations regarding tbe method of using our
different preparations, based on observations made by
competent physicians in Europe and America.
          SPECIMEN OF THE COCA SHRUB.

(Grown in a Hot-house by Mr. Mariani showing general frail condition
                            of the leaf.)
                      CHAPTER I.



             ERYTHROXYLON COCA,
               ITS BOTANICAL CHARACTER.




       I OCA is indigenous to South. America. The differ
           ent botanists disagree as to which exact family it
           should be assigned. Linnaeus, De Candolle,
           Payer, Raymundi of Lima, Huntk, and others,
place it in the family of the ErytJiroxylccs, of which there
exists but one genus, the Erythroxylon,while Jussien adopts
another classification and places it in the family of the
Malpighiacecz {gemts Sct/iid). Lamarck, on the contrary, be
lieves that this plant should be classed among the family
of Nerprem (Rhamneas).
  Erythroxylon Coca is a shrub which reaches a height of
from six to nine feet and the stem is of about the thickness
of a finger. In our climate it cannot thrive except in a
hot-house, and there its height does not exceed one metre.
  The root, rather thick, shows multiple and uniform
divisions; its trunk is covered with a ridged bark, rugged,
nearly always glabrous,and of a whitish color. Its boughs
and branches, rather numerous, are alternant, sometimes
covered with thorns when the plant is cultivated in a soil
"which is not well adapted to it.
  The leaves, which fall spontaneously at the end of each
season, are alternate, petiolate, with double intra-accillary
stipules at the base. In shape they are elliptical-lanceolate,
their size varying according to the nature of the plant or
of the soil in which it grows.
                                  — 10 —

   The leaf of Coca gfathered in Peru, of which we give
 two figures of the natural size, is generally larger and
thicker than the leaf of the Bolivian Coca. It is also richer
in the alkaloid, consequently much more bitter.
  The Coca leaf from Bolivia, smaller than the Peruvian
leaf, is as much esteemed as the latter, although it contains
                    A                                      B




           LEAVES OF PERUVIAN COCA, NATURAL SIZE.
A. Upper surface of the leaf.
B. Lower surface of the leaf, showing the longitudinal projections of the two
        sides of the midrib,

less of the alkaloid. It possesses so exquisite and so soft
an aroma, indeed, that the coqiieros seek it in preference
to any other.
  The Coca leaves of Brazil and Colombia are much smaller
than those of Peru and Bolivia. Their color is much paler.
Containing but traces of the alkaloid they are not bitter,
and possess a pleasant, but very volatile aroma.
                                         11 —

              One of the most important characteristics of the Coca
            leaf is the disposition of its nervures; parallel with the
            midrib two longitudinal projections are to be seen, which,
            starting from the base of the leaf, extend in a gentle curve
            to its point.




                       LEAVES Op Bolivian coca, natural size.
                                    (Lower surface.)

               The upper surface of these leaves is of a beautiful green
            tint; the lower surface of a paler green, except, however,
            near the midrib, ^t this point, there is a strip of green


I       i




                       LEAF OF COCA OF COLOMBIA, NATURAL SIZE.


             darker than the rest,which becomes brown in the withered
             leaves.
               The flowers, small, regular and hermaphrodite, white or
             greenish yellow, are found either alone or in groups in




    V
                             — 12


little bunches of cyme at the axil of the leaves or bracts,
which take their place on certain branches. The disposi
tion into cymes is that most commonly met with. They
are supported by a slender pedicel, somewhat inflated at
the top, the length of which does not exceed one centi-




                                  i



NERVURES of the leaf of PERUVIAN COCA, SEEN BY TRANS
                 MITTED LIGHT.   NATURAL SIZE.

metre. The sepals, joined at the base and lanceolated, are
of a green tint with a whitish top. The petals, half a centi
metre in length,pointed,concave inside and yellowish white,
exhale a rather pleasant odor. They are provided with an
exterior appendage, of the same color and of the same con
                 sistency, surmounted on each side with an
                 ascending flmbriated leaf, irregularly tri
                 angular in shape. The stamens, at first
                 joined in a tube for one-third of their
                 length, afterward separate into white subu-
                 lated strings, provided with an obtuse ovoid
                 anther which extends a little beyond the
                 petals. The ovary is ovoid in shape and
                 green in color, thickening at the top into
                 a yellowish glandular tissue. The style
                 which rises above it separates into three
                 diverging branches, provided with orbicu
Seeds of Coca.   lar papilliform bodies at their extremity,
                 obliquely inserted into the slender patina.



                                                                    .,1

                                                                -
                         — 13 —


  The fruit is a drupe of an elongated ovoid form, being
a little more than a centimetre in length, of a reddish color
when fresh, and having a tender, thickish pulp inclosing a
seed. This seed shows longitudinal furrows and alternate
vertical projections which make its division irregularly
hexagonal. When the fruit is dried, the skin assumes
a, brownish color, shrivels up and molds itself on the pro
tuberances and irregularities of the seed.



               CULTIVATION OF COCA.


  ErytJiroxylon Coca appears to have come originally from
Peru, and from there its cultivation was carried into
Bolivia, Ecuador, New Grenada, and Brazil, in a word,
throughout the entire torrid zone of South America.
  For some time, as a result of the extended consumption
of Coca and for a still stronger reason, now that the day
is at hand when the consumption of Coca will assume
greater proportions, numerous plantations of Coca trees
have been laid out in regions where that shrub was for
merly unknown. We take pleasure in recording that
these attempts have proved successful in the Antilles,
thanks to the disinterested sacrifices of our friend, Dr.
B6tancfes. It is also with pleasure that we present anew
an interesting communication made by the learned doctor
to the "Societd d'Acclimatation de France" as appeared in
the Revue Diplomatique, 17th of March, 1888.
  "Dr. B^tancfes has succeeded in acclimatizing Coca in
the Antilles. At considerable expense and after numerous
shipments of seeds and the transportation of plants (this
with the greatest difficulty) to Porto Rico and San Domingo,
Dr. Betances had the pleasure of receiving a fine branch
of Coca in full bloom, which was sent to him by Monseig-
neur Mereno, Archbishop of San Domingo. This twig.
        BRANCH OF COCA. NATURAL SIZE.
Sent by Monseigneur de Mereno, Archbishop of San Domingo,
                  to Dr. B6tances, Paris.
                               15 —


 which the members of the Society were enabled to ex
 amine, excited the most lively curiosity and won the com
 mendation of M. Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire.        It was raised
from a plant which had been only eighteen months under
cultivation."
  "In Porto Rico the plant reaches a greater hePht than
in Peru.
  "A box filled with beautiful leaves has also been received
by Dr. Bdtances and forwarded to Mr. Mariani. This also
came from Monseigneur Mereno.
  "It is therefore evident that the plant can be cultivated
in the Antilles and that it may become a source of wealth
to that country."
   Plantations like this would probably thrive in Corsica or
Algeria, countries where the temperature at certain points
is somewhat analogous to that of the tropics.
   It is a fact that this shrub does not attain its complete de
velopment except in countries where the mean temperature
is from fifteen to eighteen degrees centigrade.
   But heat does not suffice; great humidity is also neces
sary to Coca Therefore it is met with principally on the
sides of hills and at the bottom of wooded valleys which
abound on both sides of the Cordillieras. Unfortunately,
these regions are rather distant from the coast and they
are, furthermore, devoid of easy means of communication,;,
it is above all to this particular cause, the difficulty of
transportation, that we must attribute the relatively high
price of Coca leaves.
  The cultivation of Coca trees is begun by sowing the
seed in beds called Alviasigos. As soon as the plant ap
pears it is protected from the heat of the sun by means
of screens and matting; when it reaches a height of from
40 to 60 centimetres, it is transferred to furrows 18 centi
metres in length by 7 in depth, care being taken that eacb
plant is separated from its neighbor by a distance of a
foot.




                    v. c'w).
                                         16 —

  During the first year maize is sown in the interspaces,
rapidly overreaching the shrub, and taking the place of
the screens and mats.
  The growth of the shrub is rather rapid, reaching its
full height in about five years. But the time when it
becomes productive precedes that at which it attains its
complete height by about 3^ years after being planted.
                               After that, when the season has
                               been especially damp, it yields as
                               often as four times a year.
                                 Attempts have been made to ac
                               climatize it in Europe, but so far
                               without success. As early as 1869
                               the cultivation of it was tried in
                               the Botanical Garden of Hyeres,
                               but no satisfactory result was ob
                               tained. We presented, in 1872,
                               two samples to the appreciative
                               and learned director of the Garden
                               of Acclimatization of Paris, M.
                               Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire, and not
                               withstanding all the care taken of
                               the young plants, they failed to
                               reach their full growth. Several
                               frail Coca plants may be seen in
                               the conservatories of the Jardin
                               des Plantes de Paris, in the Botan
                               ical Gardens of London, of Brus
      BRANCH OF COCA,
                      sels, etc., likewise at several great
  ••as grown in a hot-house.
                      horticulturists' of Gand, notably
"Van Houten's. As may be seen by the large colored en
graving (1) and by the branch engraved above, these
specimens of Erythroxylon Coca are very far from giving an
idea of the plant growing in the open air, in a soil and
 (i) This cut represents the Coca shrub presented by Mr. A. Mariani to the
Paris Botanical Gardens.




                               I -it'll f II '
                         — IT —

under a temperature that are favorable to its development,
as shown by the leaves of Peruvian Coca,illustrated above,
and which come from one of the newest haciendas of Santa-
Anna, belonging to M. M.-P. Concha, bordering on the
territory of a savage tribe of Antis or Campas, on the Uru-
banba river, which joins the Amazon in latitude 12° S.,
longitude 75° W.



                GATHERING OF COCA.


  The plant begins to yield when it is about a year and a
half old.
  The leaf is the only part of the plant used.
  It should be gathered in dry weather; this is entrusted
generally to women, and simply consists in plucking each
leaf with the fingers.
  The leaves are received into aprons, carefully carried
under sheds, to shelter them from the rain and dampness,
dried, and then packed.
  We quote from the Voyage dans la rdgion dii Titieaea, by
Paul Marcoy, the following passage ("Tour of the World,"
May, 1877): "Of all the valleys of the Carabaya group,
Ituata is the one where Coca is cultivated on the largest
scale. They were then at the height of the work, peons
and peonnes were following each other through the plan
tations of the shrub, so dear to the natives that a decree
of 1825 placed it in the crown of the arms of Peru, along
side of the vicunia and cornucopia, or horn-of-plenty.
Men and women carried a cloth slung across the shoulders
in which were placed the leaves, as they gathered them
one by one. These leaves, spread out on large awnings,
were exposed to the sun for two or three days,then packed
up in bags of about one metre in size, and sent off to all
parts of the territory.
                              18 —


 "This gathering of the Coca is just such an occasion for
rejoicing for the natives of the valle5'^s, as reaping-time and
harvests_are for our peasants. On the day when the
gathering of the leaves is finished both sexes that have
taken part in the work assemble and celebrate, in dances
and libations, the pleasure they experience in having
finished their labors."
  In 1851, the annual production of Bolivia was estimated
to be more than 400,000 certos (600,000 kilogrammes) of
Coca leaves, of which three-quarters came from the pro
vince of Yungas.
                       CHAPTER II.




                HISTORY OF COCA.



        |OCA has been known from time immemorial in
           South   America.   At the time when Pizarro
           landed on the Peruvian coast, the leaf of Coca
            was held in great esteem among the natives; it
was considered to be a divine plant, a living representation
of the Deity, a fetish of wonderful and supernatural quali
ties, and the fields where it grew were reverenced as sanc
tuaries. Not everybody was allowed to make use of it;
its use was the privilege of the nobles and of the priests,
arid among the greatest rewards that the sovereign could
give his subjects, the privilege of chewing Coca leaves was
most highly esteemed.
   However strange such a superstition may appear, it is
indisputable, and all authors that have published the ac
count of the conquest of the Indies corroborate it. It will
suffice for us to quote the testimony of Joseph Acosta, who
says in every letter, of his natural and moral history of the
Indies, of the East as well as of the West, published in
1653:
 "The Indians esteem it highly, and during the reign of
the Incas,the common people were not allowed to use Coca
without the permission of the Governor."
  The disappearance of the empire of the Incas, far from
diminishing the importance of Coca, on the contrary gave
a very much greater scope to its popularity. The natives
                           -- 20

 profited by their freedom from the restrictions imposed
 by the native rulers in regard to the consumption of Coca,
 and sewn the use of this leaf became so common that it
 has been compared by every one interested in the question
 to the use of tobacco by us; and, as it has justly been
 added, -without its objections. There is no more likeli
 hood of seeing a smoker embark -without his tobacco than
an Indian begin -work or undertake a journey unle.ss his
chuspa (pouch) is full of Coca leaves. Three or four times




           NATIVES OF COLOMBIA CHEWING COCA.
a day he sits do-wn, takes some leaves, puts them one by
one into his mouth and rolls them into an aculio (quid),
adding a little llipta (lime), which he takes from his ever-
present poporo. The poporo is a little gourd, bored at the
mouth on the upper part, in which the Indian keeps his
llipta. This llipta is a white powder compo.sed of ashes of
vegetables and of calcined shells pulverized,-with which the
consumers of Coca have been accustomed, from the most
remote times,to season their quid. It is, really,an alkaline




                                   Ti^i''ill
                           — 21 —


 substance intended to isolate the different principles of the
 leaf and to make the action of the Coca more prompt.
   Among those inhabitants of South America, with whom
 the use of Coca did not extend to the lower classes until after
 the reign of the Incas, and who reserved for themselves, as
 we have seen,the right of chewing the Coca leaves,the con
 sumption of. Coca by children is strictly prohibited. They
 do not indulge in this luxury except in secret, and it ap
 pears to them all the sweeter because it is forbidden. But
 nearly always their breath, charged with the tell-tale odor
 of Coca, betrays them on approaching their parents, and
  the latter make them pay for the pleasure which they have
. stolen, and to which they are not entitled until they are of
  age, with very severe punishment. Only when they have
  grown up will they be allowed to chew Coca and to carry
 the poporo, which they do not relinquish even in the grave.
   On coming of age the 5mung Indian is consigned to an
 old woman, who keeps him a few hours in her hut to ini
 tiate him in the mysteries of man's estate.
   After this ceremony she gives him the chuspa (Coca
 pouch), invests him with the poporo and consecrates him
 a coqitcro. One should see with what pride the young
 Indian leaves the threshold of the sacred cabin, which he
 entered as a child scarcely a few hours before and from
 which he departs a man, that is to say, carrying the chuspa
 and the poporo, and able to chew with impunity,before the
 old people, this precious leaf which had been forbidden
 him until then.
   No happiness is comparable to his! See with what an
 important air he draws forth the Coca leaves from his
 chuspa, as he rolls them in his fingers to make a large
 quid of them, which he carries to his mouth, moistens
 delightingly with saliva, and places under his jaws and
 against his cheeks. He is seen holding carefully in his
 right hand the little stick, the extremity of which he
 is going to moisten by putting it into his mouth, and
-y ■ I,




                                         22

           which he will dip into the poporo in order that the llipta
           may adhere to its moistened part.
            He carefully carries the part of his little stick covered
           with Plipta to his quid, and thus performs the operation
           of mixing the alkaline powder with the masticated leaf,
           It is at this moment that the quid of Coca affords the j-oung
           adult the most delightful sensation. His jaws munch it
           slowly, his tongue collects and rolls it up against the left
           cheek, all the papillcs of his mouth refresh themselves
           deliciously with the soothing and aromatic juices of the
           precious leaf, and by the slow and measured motions of
           deglutition, he carries with delight the precious juice into
          the pharynx and thence to the stomach. While he is ac
          complishing this important operation, his eyes swim with
          beatitude, over his entire countenance is diffused an ex
          pression of content and unutterable joy,and his right hand
          slowly turns the little stick around the upper part of the
          poporo, where are deposited little by little the particles of
          llipta and masticated Coca, which on leaving his mouth
          adhere to its extremity.
            The only occupation of the first days of the adult is
          the much-loved quid of Coca and the encrusting of his
          gourd, which we cannot do better than compare to the
          coating of the pipe, with this difference that our confirmed
          smokers blacken hundreds of their pipes during their
          existence, while the Indian encrusts only one gourd in his
          whole life; so that by the thickness of the crust formed
          around z. poporo, it is possible to judge the age of its owner-
          This crust, which hardly ever exceeds the thickness of a
          ring on the poporo of a young Indian, ends by reaching the
          dimension of the pileus of a large mushroom on the poporo
          of an old man.
            The crust is produced by the particles of Coca and llipta
          mixed with saliva which are deposited little by little about
          the mouth of the poporo by smearing with the stick.
            These deposits are brought about in an almost imper-
                                — 23 —


ceptible manner. It is only after some months that the
surface of the poporo, on which the chewer continually
turns the little stick, becomes covered with a hardly per
ceptible layer of calcareous substance; at the end of two or
three years the superimposed layers form a ring which
grows larger from year to year, and which finally attains
the thickness we have spoken of above.



            Small stick for extracting the Llipta from the poporo.




1. Poporo of a youth.   2. Poporo of a man in        3. Poporo of an old man.
                              his prime.

  As we have said before, the Indian never parts with his
poporo, let him be awake or asleep,at home or on hisi travels,
the poporo is always attached to his belt. An Indian would
part with all he holds most dear in the world, all, except
his poporo.
  We have the rare and good fortune to possess a poporo,
of which we give a picture (fig. 3). It is, we believe,
the only specimen existing in Europe. We owe it to the
kindness of M. Gauguet, who has made numerous voyages
to Colombia, where he has been able to establish so much
sympathy among the natives that one of their old chiefs,
who was specially indebted, did not fear to depart from all
                                                  — 24 —


               custom and to incur the contempt of his companions, by
               offering him, as a pledge of friendship, the object to which
               he attached the greatest value—his poporo! (1)
                 Thus the great importance that an Indian attaches to
               Coca is easily shown. It should be recognized, moreover,
               that the first conquerors of the country did not fail to
               countenance the passion of the vanquished for the national
                plant. In fact, they quickly recognized that the habit of
               consuming Coca might become an excellent source of
               revenue; and Garcillasco de la Vega, a half-breed of the
               first generation, tells us that in his time a part of the im
               post was paid to the conqueror in the form of Coca leaves.
               The benefits which were derived from the traffic in this
               plant were such that at a certain time the revenues of the
               bishop and of the canons of the cathedral of Cuzco came
               from the tithe on these leaves.
                    There was, moreover, another object in favoring the use
               of Coca among the Indians. The latter were treated, as
               is known, as if they were beasts of burden, and their
               oppressors were not slow to recognize the fact that they
               furnished much better labor when they consumed Coca.
                 We shall see,further on,that the recognition of this fact,
               the correctness of which cannot be disputed, and which
              served to excite the rapacity of the conquering savages of
              that time, has become to-day the means of furnishing one
               of the most valuable aids to contemporary therapeutics.
                   The particular favor in which the plant was held in the
               beginning of the conquest, was destined to suffer some
              disturbance. In the seventeenth century, for example,
              the religious quibbles regaining the ascendancy in pub
              lic affairs, some sedate theologians pretended that Coca
               was an aliment, and that under this name the use of it
              should be prohibited to young people and before the com
              munion. The question was vigorously contested, and
                 (i) Mr. Mariani has presented to the Academy of Medicine a plaster cast
              of this very poforo, in his possession.




M ■'/

        ■A-Vi'tfiViii",
                          — 25 —


there is no doubt that the consumption of Coca would have
sustained a very decided blow had not Prince don Alonzo
de la Pina Montenegro declared that the plant contained
no alimentary principle. This point we shall presently
eonsider from a scientific point of view.
  Although the inhabitants of the Indies attach so much
importance to the use of Coca, this product can not be ac
climatized in our hemisphere,and our fathers who took up
the use of tobacco with so much eagerness remained indif
ferent to Coca. Perhaps this indifference should be attrib
uted to the exaggerations of the first importers, who com
ing to Europe still imbued with the legends gathered in
the New World ascribed supernatural qualities to the new
plant. The exaggeration of these statements soon became
apparent. From this it was only a step to a denial even of
its existence. And thus, for more than two centuries, we
were deprived of the advantages to be derived from the
judicious use of the plant
  It should not be believed, however, that the various
writers during these two centuries remained entirely silent
regarding Coca. The study of the properties of the plant
was still a field of research for a number of learned men,
small, it is true, but they well knew that side by side with
fiction, which they rejected,there was a reality that it were
better to accept.
   We further observe, that Claude Duret, a magistrate of
Moulins, who wrote a book, printed in 1605, on The Mar
vellous and Wonderful Plants in Nature, mentions Coca as
one of the most worthy to figure in his colleccion.
  Nicholas Monardes in the General History of Plants, pub
lished in Lyons in 1653, calls attention likewise to the
properties of Coca.
  In the seventeenth century,I'abbe Longuerue, who was a
theologian, an historian, and a philologi.st, speaking of the
Spanish colonies in South America, says, in regard to the
mines explored in Peru:"The negroes can not Avork in
                          — 20 —

 the mines, they all die. Hardly any but the natives are
  able to endure this labor, and then it is necessary to re-
_ lieve them frequently and that they should chew Coca,
 without which the quicksilver vapors would kill them."
   Linnaeus says that Coca possesses: "the penetratingf
 aroma of vegetable stimulants,the astricting and fortifying
 virtues of an astringent, the antispasmodic qualities of
 bitters, and the mucilaginous nutritive properties of ana-
 leptics or of alimentary plants. This leaf," he continues,
 "exhibits with energy its action on all parts of the an
 imal economy : Olido in ncrvos, sapido in fibras utroque in
 fluidoP
   Father don Antonio Julian wrote : "This plant is a
 preventive against many diseases, a restorative of lost
 strength, and is capable of prolonging human life. It is
 sincerely to be regretted that so many poor families do not
 possess this preventive of hunger and thirst; that so many
 employees and laborers should be deprived of this means
 of maintaining their strength in the midst of continuous
 toil; that so many old and young men engaged in the
 arduous task of study and the accomplishment of their
 undertakings are unable to derive the beneficial results of
 this plant to guard against the exhaustion of the vital
 spirits, debility of the brain, and weakness of the stom
 ach, which are frequent results of continuous study."
   Bderhaave {Inst.phys.§68),states that;"the saliva charged
 with all the bitter and mucilaginous principles of Coca car
 ries to the stomach, in addition to vital strength, a ver
itable nutritive which, digested and converted into an
abundant and nutritious chyle, enters into the circulation
and is converted into the material necessary to sustain the
 human economy."
   We shall not stop to quote the different writings of
observers who have interested themselves in Coca. It
may be inferred from the preceding statements that Coca
possesses this particular character, viz., of enabling those
                            27 —

who make use of it to withstand the greatest fatigue. Men
employed in hard work in mines, couriers obliged to trav
erse mountainous countries difficult of travel without be
ing able to take much rest, in a word, persons subject to
overwork in every way, all agree in recognizing the
strengthening and nerve-fortifying action of Coca. It
supports them, economizes their forces, prevents their
succumbing to lassitude—in short, augments their vitality.
  When the Indian has a good supply of Coca he under
takes, without the slightest fear, the most difficult and
longest voyages, even into fever-stricken countries.
  When he passes "before an apacJiecta (a quadrangular
mound which the natives raise on the sides of the roads
at certain points for a halting-place), the Indian divests
himself of his wraps, takes his quid of Coca from his
mouth, always after having previously exhausted it, and,
in order to draw down upon it the blessing of Pachacamac,
their sovereign master of the world, he throws it against
the consecrated hillock. Thus,that which particularly char
acterizes these kinds of tnmnli are the green splashes of
Coca with which they are literally covered.
  The name of coqueros is given to the chewers of Coca. It
seems that this plant procured for them dreams like those
to which hachisch gives rise.
  In native therapeutics, this plant is used to dress ulcers
and all kinds of sores. The Indians also use it to combat
asthma,jaundice, colic, etc.
  Coca is consumed chiefly in Peru, Bolivia, Colombia, and
Brazil. Since 1S63—the time from which our first efforts to
popularize it date—its use has rapidly become general, and
it may be stated that to-day it is known and used in all
civilized countries.
                        CHAPTER III.




               PHYSIOLOGY OF COCA.



           T is to empiricism and that alone that we owe
            our first knowledge of the physiological action
            of Coca. There is nothing surprising in that,
            for empiricism is nothing more, in reality, than
unconscious observation.
  The Indians, who from time immemorial consumed so
great a quantity of Coca leaves, did not do so merely
from religious sentiment which deified the leaves of Coca,
they well knew that they would derive great benefit from
its use: they knew it only too well, since it is to that cause
that we must attribute the legendary accounts given by the
first authors who wrote on Coca.
  This veneration for Coca arose, as we have seen, from
its wonderful qualities. There are indeed,in this direction,
some truly extraordinary accounts which should not be
dismissed without notice, as they are given in good faith.
  Unanue, of Lima, relates that at the siege of La Paz,
Bolivia, in 1781, only those inhabitants who had taken
Coca were able to endure hunger and fatigue. Nearly all
of the soldiers perished, deprived, as they were of food
and overcome by forced marches, except those who had
taken    the precaution to provide themselves with Coca
leaves
  It must not be believed that this prolonged fast, sus
tained by the use of Coca, wastes the strength and is inju-
                                 — 29 —


 rious to the appetite. Indeed, according to the statement
 of all authors, the Indians who pass an entire day without
 eating, notwithstanding the hardship of forced marches,
 content themselves with chewing Coca leaves, and eat very
 heartily in the evening.
   "The Indians who accompanied me on my voyage," says
 Weddel,"chewed Coca leaves all day, neither drinking,
 eating, nor showing any signs of fatigue. But at evening
 they replenished their stomachs like men who were com
 pletely famished, and I can assure you that I have some
 times seen them devour at one meal more aliment than I
 could have consumed in two days." We wdll see, further
 on, that it is in exciting the cerebro-medullary and ner
 vous muscular functions, in part, and partly in producing
 a soothing effect on the mucous membrane of the stomach,
that Coca produces these wonderful results in the con
servation of energy without the tortures of hunger, not
 withstanding the deprivation of aliment.
   After this abstract of the well-known and recognized
properties of Coca leaves, we will proceed to the medical
study undertaken regarding this subject.
  In 1859 Niemann discovered the active principle of the
leaves of Coca, to which he gave the name of Cocaine,
though, in fact, the discovery of this alkaloid should be
attributed to Gardeke, who had separated it in 1855 under
the name of Erytliroxyline.
  The work of Demarle appeared in that same year, on
"The Coca of Peru"(1),in which he pointed out certain prop
erties attributed by him to the alkaloid that the leaves of
the plant contained, and which he studied. He remarked,
among other things, the dilatation of the pupils, which he
had noticed in his own case after having taken a do.se of
Coca; the absence of taste for a greater or less length of
time after cru.shing some leaves with his teeth and letting
them remain in the mouth.
 (l) Dr. Demarle, Essay on Peruvian Coca, Thhse de Paris, 1S62.
                                                             30 —


                            Mantegazza has studied the effect of Coca and, according-
                          to this author,it acts as a stimulant on the nervous system,
                          the respiration, and the circulation.
                            A dose of fifteen to twenty grammes of Coca produces,
                          an increase of the heart-beat, increasing pulse, and finally
                          a rise in temperature. Mantegazza observed on him
                          self that, under the influence of such a dose, his pulse
                          increased from 65 to 124. Moreno, who repeated the same
                          experiment, obtained similar results. The temperature
                          and respiration are increased in the same proportion as
                          the circulation.
                            The same dose, or even a weaker one, produces a remark
                          ably stimulating effect on the nervous system. It is from
                          this stimulating effect that Coca makes one more active
                          and vigorous and enables those to accomplish more work
                          who, withoiit it, would soon be overcome with more or less
                          fatigue. The use of larger doses(60 grammes for example)
                          has caused intoxication, accompanied by sensation of
                          happiness, which makes everything appear under a favor
                          able aspect. Mantegazza, who experienced this intoxi
                          cation, describes his sensations in an animated style,
                          which recalls that of the Oriental legends: "Borne on
                          the wings of two Coca leaves, I flew about in the spaces
                          of 77,438 worlds, one more splendid than another.         I
                          prefer a life of ten years with Coca to one of a hundred
                          thousand without it. It seemed to me that I was sepa
                          rated from the whole world, and I beheld the strangest
                          imaofes, most beautiful in color and in form that can be
                              o   '

                          imagined."
                            In 1868, Moreno y Maiz made some researches into the
                          physiological action of Cocaine, and explained them in an
                          interesting thesis which he read before the Faculty of
                          Paris (1).
                            At about the same time, Lippmann, of Strasbourg, de
                          voted his labors to the same subject, but his investigations
                           (l) Moreno y Maiz, Thhe de Paris, 1868.




i^it ^i^fiifiyiii- -h'l
                                                                         '■' If..
I:
>
                                ,v-

 U*ty

                                                      ' ■"?

                          ,y>
               >#


               ": ' '-'h.. .


                                  • . «    p



                                                      -:3
                                                      . *•



                                               ':p>,
                                                "<' ■




              •'W' • ••                        ■■ '    '"i.
                                                                                    'Ml

Pi
^. . .




                                                              '•■I'V-'
                                                        ■




                                          -: • 0
                                                               y i>
                                                            - ■-IV;




                                ;Wj,3>
ii'intej> '
;i-




K''
                                                                                  Typ. K. PiyflPt, Paiii


Reproduction of a Coca Plant presented isy Mr. Mariani to the Paris Bota.nical Gardens.
mr : .
         r        r




  ■*''       ;'
         ■R?"
                                    — 31 —

 did not yield the same results. He says that he could not
 establish the anaesthetic properties of the plant.(1)"
    After Moreno y Maiz, Dr. Gazeau (2), in 1870, studied the
 stimulating effect of Coca on nutrition, and found that it
 increased the pulse and respiration, assisted digestion, in
 creased urinary excretion, and strengthened the nervous
 system. This author arrived at the conclusion that Coca
 prolongs life and promotes mu.scular energy. He advises
 its use, locally, for stomatitis, gingivitis, aphthous ulcera-
 tion, and generally for painful and difficult digestion,
 gastric disturbance in phthisis, and also for obesity.
   It was Charles Fauvel who first described the anaesthe
 tizing effect of Coca on the pharyngeal mucous mem
 brane (3). Thanks to this circumstance, he has been able
 to derive much benefit from the use of Coca in granular
 pharyngitis which is generally unaffected by any'other
kind of treatment.
  Fauvel further showed that the stimulating effect which
Coca exercises on all the muscles of the economy,appears
to manifest itself specially on all the muscles of the larynx.
Hence his apt qualification of the drug,"a tensor par excel
lence of the vocal cords."
  In 1880, Von Arep published the results of his physio
logical researches with Cocaine. He spoke of its double
effect on the nervous extremities and on the central nervous
system.
  We approach, on leaving this epoch, the really scientific
era, that is to say,that of physiological experiments.
  All the experiments having been made with Cocaine,
we shall speak of it in the next chapter, which will be
devoted exclusively to the study of this alkaloid.
  Before closing, we will mention that it has been claimed
frequently that Coca was aphrodisiac. The fact that the
 (1) Lippmann, Tkhe de Strasbourg^ l868.
 (2) Gazeau, Thhe de Paris, 1870.
 (3) Gazette des Ilopitaux, Paris, March 12, 1877.
                             .    — 33 —


Peruvian Venus was represented as holding in her hand a
leaf of Coca, was suggested as a proof in support of this
opinion. Dr. Unanue speaks of "certain coqueros, eighty
years of age and over, and yet capable of such prowess
as young men in the prime of life would be proud of.
  Let us here add that the so-called unhappy consequences
of the abuse of Coca are really much more rare than those
produced even by tobacco, alcohol or opium. An entirely
immoderate use of the drug must be made before any such
result follows.
  The constant use of reasonable doses of Coca appears to
produce a diametrically opposite effect, and the authors,
who have had occasion to see a great number of Coca con
sumers, report cases of astonishing longevity among the
Indian coqueros(Tschudy,Campbell, Mantegazza,Unanue).
They add that these instances are far from being excep
tional.



                                 COCAINE.



                    I.—A CHEMICAL STUDY. (1)


  Cocaine is a crystallized alkaloid which Niemann, a
•pupil of Prof. Woehler, succeeded in extracting, in 1859,
•from some leaves of Erytliroxylon Coca and to which he gave
-.the following formula:
                            C32         Q Az

Pefore it was known to him, Wackenroder, Johnston, Gar-
deke and Maclagan analyzed this plant without succeeding
in the isolation of its active principle.
  Some important works undertaken on this subject by
Lassen, Humann and R. Percy are also quoted.
  (i) Rigolet. l^hise de Paris, 18S5.
                          — 33 —

   Properties.—Cocaine is colorless, odorless, and bitter to
 the taste. It crystallizes in the shape of oblique rhomboid
 prisms of from four to six facets.
   It is very soltible in water, less soluble in alcohol, and
absolutely insoluble in ether. It does not vaporize below
98°, but if the temperature is greatly increased it is decom
posed. It possesses a strongly alkaline reaction.
   United with acids it forms salts which are very difficult
to crystallize.
  Those which have been obtained from it are; the salicy-
late, oxalate, hydrobromide, sulphate, acetate, and finally
the hydrochlorate, which forms an exception to the general
rule, and is obtained more easily in the crystalline form
than any other.
  The solutions of the salts of Cocaine are precipitated by
the caustic alkalies, carbonate of sodium, carbonate of am
monium, the alkaline bicarbonates, the bichloride of mer
cury, the protochloride of tin, bichloride of platinum, and
by ammonia,which,added in excess,redissolves the precipi
tate formed by it. Iodine water,iodized potassium iodide,
and picric acid precipitate the solutions of salts of Cocaine.
When Cocaine is heated to 100° in a sealed tube with con
centrated hydrochloric acid, it separates into benzoic acid
and a new base, for which M. Woehler has proposed the
name of Ecgoninc. Lassen has discovered another nitroge
nous base resulting from the separation of Cocaine—
hygrinc.
  Preparation.—The process used by Niemann for obtain
ing Cocaine is as follows;
  This chemist digested Coca leaves, cut into very small
pieces, in alcohol (at 5.1°), for several days, adding sul
phuric acid. The tincture which resulted from this op
eration was separated by expression, filtered, and treated
with slaked lime. The liquid, which was primarily of a
greenish-brown, was both divested of a part of its chlbro-
phyll and also of a certain waxy substance. Niemann
                                — u —

then neutralized this with sulphuric acid and evaporated
it over a water-bath.        The residue was then treated with
water, which caused the separation of the rest of the chloro
phyll and of the sulphate of Cocaine that it contained, and
which was precipitated by means of the carbonate of
sodium. He separated it finally with ether and purified
it by several re-crystallizations in alcohol. This process
was modified by Lassen,who precipitated the aqueous solu
tion with the subacetate of lead.
   In this way he was able to obtain about six grammes of
Cocaine from a, kilogramme of Coca leaves.
   Moreno y Mai'z proposed a third process. He mixed
intimately, slaked lime with finely-pulverized Coca leaves,
letting the mixture stand for nearly twenty-four hours,in
order that the lime might react suitably on the alkaloid,
imitating in that, the Indian who mixes with his quid the
llipta, of which we have already spoken. He afterward
lixiviates it with alcohol at 40°.




                        II.—PHYSICAL STUDY.




  We have reviewed the works of the different authors
who occupied themselves with Coca; their various labors,
although very interesting, did not reach the famous dis
covery of local anaesthesia, and it is to Koller, of Vienna(1),
that the honor belongs of having brought to light the re
markable effect of Cocaine when applied to the conjunctival
membrane.
  This soon awakened general curiosity. From all quar
ters came works on the subject. Reuss, Koenigstein,
Jellinck, Schrotter, Knapp and others hastened to give tO'
the profession the result of their researehes.
  In France enthusiasm was not less strong, nor less
 (i) Soc. imp. royale des m^decins de Vienne, Oct. 17, 1S84.
                                — 35 —

prompt, all those whom this discovery interested under
took a series of experiments with Cocaine (1).
  Among the first experimenters we must mention spe
cially, Prof. Panas, Prof. Vulpian, Prof. Dujardin-Beaumetz,
Dr. Terrier, Dr. Trousseau, Dr. Dehenne.
  Prof. Panas reports in a communication made by him to
the Academie de Medecine (2) what he has observed.
  He states, besides, that in nearly all respects his personal
investigations are confirmatory of those made by Roller.
  About five minutes after a few drops of a solution of
hydrochloride of Cocaine composed of 0.5 gramme of that
salt to a gramme of distilled water have been instilled into
the eye, anaesthesia of the conjunctival mucous membrane
of the cornea begins to manifest itself and reaches the deep
parts in about fifteen or twenty minutes if the instillations
are repeated every five minutes.
  At the same time there is a certain amount of mydriasis,
but this is less pronounced than that produced by atropine.
This pupillary dilatation, which is more perceptible in
young subjects and not in glaucomatous states, lasts, at
least, for twenty-four hours. With that occurs a slight
paralysis of the ciliary muscle.
  "On account of this," says Professor Panas, "Cocaine
should be placed among the slightly mydriatic substances
of which the passing effect might be utilized for ophthal-
moscopic explorations of the fundus of the eye, under the
same head as, and better than, homatropine."
  According to M. Dujardin-Beaumetz, Cocaine not only
deadens sensibility, but it can further be utilized with
morphinomaniacs as a substitute for morphine without
presenting the objections of the latter substance ; and he
adds that subcutaneous injections made with this alkaloid
are not irritating {Bulletin de 1'Academie de MMecine, ses
sion of the 18th of November, 1884).
 (1) Rigolet, Thhe de Paris, iS8S.
 (2) M. Panas. Communication t I'Acad. de M6decine, November, 1884.
                          — 36 —


  Prof. Vulpian, at the outset, communicated to the Acad-
emie des Sciences the results of his interesting physiological
researches with the chlorhydrate of Cocaine.
  M. Vulpian, after observing similar anaesthetic and anal
gesic effects on the eye in animals as already shown in
man, resulting from an instillation between the eyelids of
a few drops of solution of hydrochlorate of Cocaine, and
also perceiving under these conditions the mydriatic ac
tion of the salt, noticed a protrusion of the ocular globe
when he injected 0.10 centigramme of hydrochloride of
Cocaine of a one to one hundred aqueous solution into the
saphenous vein of a non-curarized dog, and that it oc
curred almost immediately after throwing the liquid into
the vessel. Instantly the eyelids were seen to separate and
the pupillary orifice to enlarge. "This," says he, "is an
effect which exactly recalls the results of faradization of
the upper extremity of the cervical sympathetic nerve ci;t
transversely."
  Complete anaesthesia of the two transparent corneae
existed in this case.
  Prof. Grasset, of Montpelier, almost at the same time as
Vulpian,observed the same effects of Cocaine, but a greater
persistency in the phenomena of insensibility following
the intravenous injection of the solution of hydrochloride
of Cocaine.
  At about that time. Dr. Laborde,of the Academie de Mdde-
cine, treated still more deeply of the action of Cocaine in
three successive notes to the Socidte de Biologie (Nov. 22d
and 29th, and Dec. 27th, 1884). This learned physiologist
studied the analgesic action generally resulting from sub
cutaneous injections of 0.03 of hydrochloride of Cocaine,
in three doses, in the guinea-pig. He saw it at the same
time produce a general hyper-excitability which irresistibly
forced the animal to move, and even produced epileptic
convulsions; the general analgesic state lasted for more
than forty-eight hours.
                          — 37 —

  M. Laborde, in attributing the secondary peripheric
analgesia of intravenous or subcutaneous injections of
hydrochlorate of Cocaine to the cerebral insusceptibil
ity to pain, unconsciously made Cocaine a gfeneral anaes
thetic.
  Prof. Arloing (1885, Memoire Soc. Biologie) has undertaken:
many experiments for demonstrating that Cocaine is not a
general anaesthetic.
  In his experiments, the learned physiologist of Lyons
confirmed the results obtained by Vulpian as to the modifi
cations occasioned by Cocaine of the arterial pressure ; he
saw, like his predecessors, the excito-medullary and con-
vulsary effect of large doses of Cocaine and the increase of
the salivary secretion, and in regard to its cerebro-spinal
effect, he compared it to strychnine. General analgesia did
not occur except from fatal doses or when accompanied by
convulsions. The hydrochlorate of Cocaine, according to
M. Arloing, produces and can produce nothing but local
anaesthesia by temporarily changing the physical properties
of the protoplasm of the terminal and fibrillary nervous
elements easily accessible to medicinal agents in the cor
nea and mucous surfaces.
  We will presently show that the several learned men
who have been engaged in investigating the mechanism
of action of the active principles of Coca were by no
means in accord as regards the inodtis agetidi of Cocaine in
the production of local anaesthesia.
  While M. Dujardin-Beaumetz likens the local anaesthetic
action of Cocaine to that of cold, and while M. Laborde
considers that it produces a diminished blood supply by the
vaso-constrictor action of the great sympathetic nervous
system, M. Arloing, on the contrary, explains it by a local
action on the nervous protoplasm.
  Moreover, in 1886, Schilling, a supporter of the vascular
theory, advised inhalations of nine drops of nitrite of
amyl, in three doses, inhalations which caused dilatation
                          — 38 —
                                         >


of the vessels, to revive patients poisoned with injections
of Cocaine hydrochlorate.
  In repeating these experiments in the laboratory, Dr.
Laffont has succeeded little by little in enlarging his field
of experiments, and finally has given to the Acaddmie
de Medecine (session of the 4th of January, 1888), a
complete and definitive account of the action of the active
principles of Coca on the different functions of the econ- ■
omy. This work of original researches and criticism of
previous works will serve to explain the methodical and
rational use of our preparations in the list of the different
diseases where our former previsions had already led us to
advise them.
  In an earlier work (Comptes-rendus, Socidtd de Biologic,
Dec. 3, 1887), Dr. Laffont, studying the action of Cocaine
on the great sympathetic nervous system,found that under
the action of the active principle of Coca the functions of
all the constrictor fibres of the great sympathetic nerve
were increased.
  The stomach contracts.
  The intestines undergo an augmentation in peristalsis
and horborygmi are heard.
  The bladder invariably contracts, as M. Laborde has also
seen.

  The orbital capsule of the eye (smooth muscle) propels
the eye-ball forward.
  The pupil is dilated.
  In a word, all the smooth-fibred muscles or muscles of
organic life, subordinate to the great sympathetic nervous
system constrictor, undergo an augmentation of functional
activity.
  In a second essay (Comptes-rendus, Socidt^ de Biologic,
Dec. 17, 1887), the same experimenter studied more par
ticularly the mechanism of the local or general analgesic
action of Cocaine, and, like M. Arloing, as opposed to
M. Laborde, he found that the cerebral perceptibility was
                                   — 39 —


not deadened, by a physiological dose, but on the contrary,
increased.
   The action of Cocaine on the nervous system is not
exerted by the intervention of vascular constriction ; it is
a. generalized exciting action, and a state of peripheric
non-receptivity of external impressions(1)in the nervous
extremities of the sensory nerves and the. nerves of gen
eral sensation.
  Cocaine, according to M. Laffont, is not the antagonist
of curare, as M. Laborde describes it, but quite the con
trary, a particular curare, acting like it on the periphery,
and not affecting the nervous centers,the functional action
of which is exaggerated thereby.
  M. le docteur Beugnies-Corbeau describes fully in the
Revue Jicbdouiadaire dc Thc'rapcutiqtie gc'ncrale et thermale, the
internal effects of Coca, until now so obscure, and in regard
to which no concrete doctrine had been formulated until
M. le docteur Laffont presented to the Academie de Med-
ecine his researches. He shows that Coca, from its active
principles, should have these entirely distinct actions:
  1° Action on the protoplasm of the nervous extremities
of the sensory nerves and on the. nerves of general sensi
bility, producing non-transmissibility to the nerves of pain
ful and even sensorized impressions, in a large dose ;
  2° Excito-functional action on the cerebro-spinal nervous
centers, producing an augmentation of intellectual and
muscular activity;
  3° Excito-functional action on the great sympathetic con
strictor nerve, consequently an exaltation of the functional
action of all the non-striated muscles or muscles of organic
life, which are subordinate to it.
  Considering these distinct properties of the active prin
ciples of Coca, M. Laffont explains the long-recognized
virtues of Coca, in that they conserve the natural forces,
notwithstanding the withdrawal of aliments, in the follow-
 (i) Dr. Laffont. JEtudephysiologique sur la Coca et les sets de Coca»
                          — 40 —


ing manner;"The exciting cerebro-medullary action of
these principles causes an increase of the intellectual and
physical activity, at the same time that the analgesic
action on the extremities of the sensitive and sensory
nerves, prevents the pangs of hunger, and consequently
the accompanying moral and physical depression."
  From another point of view, M. Laffont adds, that the
dynamogenic action of the active principles of Coca on the
smooth-fibered muscles "indicates its use in the list of
atonic gastro-intestinal diseases, flatulent dyspepsia, dila
tation of the stomach, paresis of the intestines, of the
bladder, etc."
  It is impossible for us to recount here all the trials which
have been made with Cocaine; we will only quote the
names of Dr. Deneffe, Dr. Charpentier, Dr. Morell Mac
kenzie, Dr. Lennox Browne, Dr. Sajous, Dr. J. Leonard
Corning, Dr. Beverly Robinson, Dr. Louis Elsberg, Dr. W.
Oliver Moore, Dr. Vincenzo Cozzolino, Dr. Abadie, Dr.
Galezowski, Dr. Meyer, Dr. de Wecker, Dr. Doleris, Dr.
David Colombe, Dr. Rigolet, and Dr. Brasseur, the major
ity of whom have studied this que.stion from an ocular,
therapeutical, obstetrical, dental, and laryngological point
of view.
                            CHAPTER IV.




        THERAPEUTIC ACTION OF COCA.


           OW that we understand the physiological proper
             ties of Coca and Cocaine, we come to the study
             of the different morbid states in which these
             substances may be usefully employed.



                DISEASES OF THE MOUTH.


  Gazeau advises the use of Coca for inflammations of the
mouth and gums. Pain is assuaged, ptyalism removed,
and the inflammation itself favorably influenced. He
cites, in support of his opinion, the use which the Peruvi
ans make of it in affections of the mouth, and mentions
cases of mercurial stomatitis treated with this agent and
cured in a short time, in his practice.
  Demarle (1), before him, expressed himself thus: "I
have used Coca for mei-curial stomatitis. The affection
disappeared on the third day of treatment; nothing else
had been administered."
  In cases where the gums are soft, fungous, ulcerated, or
bleeding, and these changes depend on local or constitu
tional conditions, Coca is equally indicated. Gazeau pre
fers it even to potassium chlorate.
 (l) TAhe de Paris, 1862.




                                                    lu- tv'*;
                                — 42 -


  According to Dr. Colombe (1), Coca is a potent factor in
the treatment of syphilis. (2) "It is demonstrated that
potassium iodide and potassium chlorate undergo double
decomposition in the system, and thus interfere with each
other's action. Coca, substituted for the chlorate under
such.circumstances, would not be open to the same objec
tion. It would find its application, therefore, when the
mixed treatment is found necessary."



  DISEASES OF THE THROAT, PHARYNX AND
                             THE LARYNX.



  As regards the angincs, the acute inflammations of the
larynx and pharynx, we might repeat what has been said
about inflammations of the mouth. In particular, the pain,
so violent in certain migincs, calls for this method of treat
ment. The same is true of the dysphagia which accompa
nies them.
  Charles Fauvel first recognized the virtues of Coca in
the tingling of follicular angina and the laryngeal pains
of tuberculous subjects. In those cases he specifies Mari-
ani's extract of Coca leaves in preference to solutions
of Cocaine, which sometimes give rise to symptoms of
poisoning.
  Dr. Rouquette (3) relates a case of tubercular laryngitis
in which symptoms of poisoning showed themselves as
early as the third day; the parts had been painted twice
a day with a five-per-cent solution of Cocaine.
  Dr. Paul Legendre has quite recently mentioned anew
the danger that may result from a too free use of Co-
 (1) Th^se de Paris^ 1885.
 (2) Btimstead and Taylor on Venereal Diseases,
 (3) ThiHrapeutique contemporaine^ January, 1888.
                            — 43 —


caine (1). The case was that of an interne of the hospitals
attacked with diphtheria who, in order that he might the
better bear the spraying with caustics, had his throat
painted with a solution of Cocaine. Toward the seventh
day he experienced very grave symptoms of poisoning,
and the painting had to be suspended.
  It is better, in cases of this sort, to prescribe extract of
Coca, which answers the same purposes without the at
tendant danger of Cocaine.
  One of the greatest triumphs of extract of Coca is assur
edly its action in dysphagia and in the vomiting of con
sumptives,as also in the vomiting of pregnancy. The first
two complications are of the gravest kind, for they con
demn to starvation patients whose only chance of safety
lies in the activity of the digestive organs(Ch. Fauvel and
Coupard).


              DISEASES OF THE STOMACH.


  Authors who have given attention to Coca speak very
highly of its employment in gastralgia and tardy and
laborious digestion.
  Demarle says on this subject: "Personally,I have found
the use of Coca, either before or after eating, excellent for
gastrodynia and pyrosis, to which I am subject; hardly
have I swallowed the first bit of saliva when the whole
unpleasant feeling disappears."
  Mantegazza speaks of its use in the same strain. The
cephalic congestion which accompanies his digestion is
relieved; he can work after eating without feeling any
uneasiness.
   Dr. Ch.Gazeau {Thisepour le Doctorat, Paris,1870, Parent,
6dit., pp. 61 ct seq.) thus sums up the physiological action
of Coca: "On the stomach, slight excitation, anaesthesia,
 (i) Coucows Medical   ii, iSS8.
                                      — 44 —

 and probably an increase of the secretion of gastric juice ;
 on the intestines,an increase of the intestinal secretions,etc.
 These manifold physiological effects upon the digestive
 tube unite in a specific action, so to speak, in the numer
 ous functional troubles, so varied and so ill-understood, of
 the organs that compose it."
    The same author cites a great number of cases of this
 sort in which Coca"has never failed to exert an admirable
 action, often even marvelous." And he concludes(page
 65):"It seems to me useless to bring forward more ex
 amples ; these are enough to justify this positive general
 conclusion; Coca is the remedy par excellence for diseases
 of the digestive tube."
   Beugnies-Corbeau (1) prescribes it in chloro-ancemia,
not only for gastralgia, but for the frequent desire to eat
which patients feel, disappearing as soon as the first
mouthful has been taken, only to return a little while
afterward.
 Prof. O. Reveil ends his article on Coca as follows:
"Much remains to be done in the physiological and clinical
study of Coca; it is known that it acts on the motor and
sensory nervous system. This substance is destined some
day to take an important rank in therapeutics."
  In irritability and various affections of the cerebral cen
ters, Dr. J. Leonard Corning makes use of Coca, which he
prefers to the bromides.
  In a very remarkable essay on Erythroxylon Coca, pub
lished at Ixelles, in 1885, a perusal of which we urge upon
all who are interested in the study of Coca, Dr. A.Feigneau
says (page 61);
     There can be no mistake that, to a certain extent. Coca
stimulates the cerebro-spinal activity by suspending or re
tarding the destruction of tissue in the economy, and that
its action may modify the functions of the nervous centers,
 (l) Bulletin gen. de The,ap. 1884.
                                   45 —


provided there are no such cpntra-indications to its use as
active congestion, inflammation, or organic changes in
these organs."
  "Consequently it would be indicated under all circum
stances where a nervous affection seemed to depend upon
a state of ataxia."
 "In irritations of the spinal cord, in mental aberration
accompanied by melancholia, as well as against idiopathic
convulsions (Mantegazza) and nervous paraplegia."
  Dr. Beverley Robinson considers the Vin Mariani as a
cardiac tonic (1):
  "On several occasions, when digitalis has proved to be
useless or injurious, I have had very excellent results from
caffeine or convallaria. Certainly, the latter drug is more
easily tolerated by a sensitive stomach than digitalis is;
and whenever the nervous supply of the heart is especially
implicated, I believe that I secure more quieting effects
from its employment. Among well known cardiac tonics
and stimulants for obtaining temporary good effects, at
least, I know of no drug quite equal to Coca. Given in the
form of wine or fluid extract, it does much, at times, to re
store the heart-muscle to its former tone. I have obtained
the best effects from the use of Mariani's wine. From per
sonal information given me by this reliable pharmacist,
these results are attributable to the excellent quality of the
Coca leaves and of the wine which he uses in its manufac
ture."
  In cases of morphinomania. Dr. Dujardin-Beaumetz has
pointed out the advantage to be obtained with the Vin
Mariani, and, following him. Dr. Palmer, of Louisville,
and Dr.SigmauxTreux,of Vienna,have obtained excellent
results with this therapeutic agent. Further on, we give a
case of Dr. Villeneuve's, showing the cure of a morphino-
maniac by the combined use of the Vin and the Pate
(Mariani).
 (l)"Heart-strain and Weak Heart," N. V. Medical Record, Feb. 26, page 238.
                           — 46 —


   Dr. H. Libermann recommends the use of Coca, in the
 form of Vin Mariani, against morphinomania, nicotinism
 and alcoholism.
  "In general diseases it is to the stimulating properties of
 the plant that recourse is oftenest had. These properties
 make it the tonic par excellence whenever the object is to
 build up a system that has been enfeebled from any cause.
 Its preparations, accordingly, may be ordered in convales
 cence from all grave fevers, in anemia and chloro-ansemia,
in all diathetic or cachaetic conditions, whatever may have
been their original cause (chronic rheumatism, gout,
genito-urinary affection, cancer, etc.), in short, in all
cases where the system is debilitated from any cause
whatever."
  But it is, above all, in diseases that have a depressing
action on the nervous system that the effect of Coca is truly
marvelous. Gubler, in his Commentaires de thdrapeutique,
shows himself its warm champion. "Coca," says he,"very
much like tea and coffee, lends to the nervous system the
force with which it is charged, after the manner of a ful
minate, but with this difference, that it yields it gradually
and not all at once."
  The theory of the fzilniinates, invented by M. Gubler, tal
lies so well with observed facts, that Mantegazza, without
generalizing and without pretending to form a theory, but
limiting himself to describing by simile what he had seen,
truer probably than he himself supposed, said; "Under
the influence of Coca, it seems that a new force is grad
ually introduced into our organism, like water into a
sponge." (A. Dechambre.)
  This opinion has been corroborated by all authors who
have given attention to the question, and it may be looked
upon as one of the least contestible in therapeutics.
  We will add, what is quite important, that as a tonic
Coca has been found far superior to cinchona, iron, strych
nine, etc. Everybody knows their astringent action, which
                          47

makes them give rise to such obstinate constipation that
there are patients in whom it is often necessary to sus
pend their use. There is no such objection to Coca; it
never constipates, and practically its use may be contin
ued indefinitely.




                                                                rt' ;
                                                               ■■ •/',



                                                           ■ ■ rvft




                            '   -   i   »
                             i:




   COCA LEAVES.

(Branch in natural state.)
                       CHAPTER V.



 OUR VARIOUS PREPARATIONS OF COCA.


         MMEDIATELY after the importation of the Coca
          leaf into Europe, we conceived the plan, the
          outcome of the request of many physicians, of
          making- preparations from Coca. Vi7i Mariaiii.
—Elixtr Mariaiii.—Pdte Mariani.— The Mariani.—Pastilles
Mariaai, etc. (The author's name was kindly added to" his
preparations by the medical profession, who had recognized
the superiority of his products.)
  These different preparations had been used by our great
est practitioners long before the discovery, or rather the
application of Cocaine.
  The results obtained were marvelous, and the innumer
able letters which were addressed to us by physicians who
experimented with and used our products and rendered
accounts in the medical journals in all parts of the world,
would fill a large volume.
  Under the esteemed patronage of our greatest medical
celebrities, our preparations are known all over the world;
they have reached all classes of society and everywhere, in
the large cities as in the small villages, men, women, chil
dren, in fact, convalescents of all ages now know the name
of the salutary plant, which it is and has been our effort
to popularize, though strictly so according to the code of
medical ethics and by those channels approved of by the
entire medical profession.
                                    — 50 —


  We shall now consider the different ways in which we
use Peruvian Coca, and which under the well-known forms
of vin, elixir, pdte, and of tlid Mariani, have received such
universal recognition. We will show incidentally the es
teem in which these preparations are held by the highest
medical authorities.



                                  VIN MARIANI.


  This is the first of the preparations of Coca and the one
most generally adopted ; to the tonic and stimulant action
of the drug there is added that of a choice quality of wine.
  The Vin Coca Mariani contains the soluble parts of the
Peruvian plant. The combination of Coca, with the tannin
and the slight traces of iron which this wine naturally con
tains is pronounced the most efficacious of tonics.
  The Coca leaves that we employ after careful selection
come from three different sources and are of incomparable
quality. It is this that gives to our wine that special taste
and agreeable aroma which renders it so acceptable to the
sick.
  It is likewise to the combination of these three varieties
of Coca leaf in our wine that we can attribute this impor
tant fact; during almost 30 years, no matter in how large
doses taken, Vin Mariani has never produced ^ cocatnisni.
(We caution especially against the many so-called Coca
wines made with the alkaloid Cocaine.)
  Vin Mariani is a diffusable tonic, the action of which is
immediate. This action,instead of being localized on a sin
gle organ,the stomach,spreads to the whole system. Taken
into the circulation, it awakens in its course the retarded
functions of every organ, and this is owing to the presence
in our preparation of the volatile principles of the plant.
  Unlike other tonics, the astringent properties of which
lead at length to heat and constipation, Vin Mariani does




         —   f/it iWlkl'i 'i^ii
                                   — 51 —


         not produce any disorder of the digestive functions; it
         stimulates them, exerts a refreshing action on the gastric
         mucous membrane, and on that account so advantageously
         replaces the preparations of cinchona, iron, strychnine,etc.
           "There is," says Dr. Mallez,"a form of anasmia to which
         the attention of physicians has not yet been called, and
         which yields marvelously to the employment of Vin
         Mariani; we allude to that state of profound depression of
         the economy, of extremely marked impoverishment of the
         blood, which also results from the prolonged abuse of bal-
         samics in the treatment of diseases of the urinary passages.
          "The number of persons who, attacked with blennorr-
         hagia, use cubebs, copaiba, turpentine, etc., to a deplorable
         extent is considerable. So true is this that, out of a hun
         dred young dyspeptics, we may affirm without fear of being
         in error that at least forty of them have become so by the
         use of balsamics.
          "In like manner, the number of patients affected with
         urinary gravel whom the prolonged and excessive use of
         the agents just mentioned, has rendered dyspeptic and
         then neuropathic is enormous. Like the former, they owe
         the profound disorder of their digestive functions to the
         immoderate use of resins and oleo-resins.
          "It is of the first importance, therefore, to relieve these
         persons by making them take,after having given them light
         laxatives and some preparations intended to strengthen
         the stomach, not iron, not cinchona, not, as we have said
         above, local tonics, which would be of little if any use, but
         diffusible tonics,that is to say,those that act upon the local
         condition and at the same time upon the general condition,
         and which, moreover, do not constipate.
          "It is here that Vin Mariani proves its great advantage
         and succeeds where other tonics have failed, in stimulat
         ing the functions of the stomach. On the one hand by the
         small quantity of tannin which it contains, on the other
         through the active principles of Coca, associated with the




i', ■■
                           — 52 —


wine, which serves as a vehicle, exciting the vitality of
each organ separately, not, however, without having pre
viously exerted its vivifying action on the mucous mem
brane of the stomach itself." {^Gazette dcs Hopitaux, Nov.
23, 1877.)
  The analgesic properties of Vin Mariani have received a
happy application in clinical laryngoscopy by Dr. Ch. Fau-
vel. This eminent specialist has made use of it for the
past twenty-six years with unvarying success in all affec
tions of the laryngeal mucous membrane,the air passages,
and the vocal organs. In granular angina it takes the place
of the topical medication and cauterizations which are so
often injurious when they are used indiscriminately and to
excess.

  The employment of Vin Mariani rapidly relieves pa
tients of the feeling of heat and tingling which is
one of the most annoying symptoms of this very com
mon disease of the throat. {Gazette des Hopitaux, May
12, 1877.)
  Dr. Beverley Robinson recommends Vin Mariani as a
heart tonic.
  Dr. W. H. Pancoast says that Vin Mariani is a valuable
preparation and a tonic of the highest merit.
  Dr. Jules Bouvyer, of Cauteretz, employs it with success
in certain affections of the larynx as an adjuvant to the
sulphurous treatment.
  In 1875,in his Traiteinent rationnel de la phtJasie pulmonatre.
Dr. de Pietra Santa said, page 894:
  "Among the most renowned practitioners of Paris, P^an,
Barth, G. S6e, and Cabrol have promptly adopted the prep
arations of Coca. Ch. Fauvel prescribes it in affections of
the respiratory passages. It is in these diseases that I, too,
have had occasion to advise its daily use in the most con
venient,the most agreeable, and the most active form—that
of the Vin Tonique de MarianiV
  Thus has been realized Reveil's prediction : "This sub-
TSS"'.'




                                    — 53 —


          stance (Coca) is destined to take an important rank in
          therapeutics." •
            In the Revue de Th&apeutiqiie mddicaux-chirtir^icale, June
          11, 1876, page 381. Bibliographie: Dictionnaire Ejicyclo-
          pedique des sciejtces mddicales, par A. Dechambre, Dr. H. Cot-
          tin thus closes his article:
            "In France, we are using a great deal of Coca wine,and it
          is tending to take the place of all other tonic wines; it is-
          borne a longer time by the stomach and is more agreeable
          to the palate. M. Mariani has contributed much to the
          popularization of Coca by the perfection of his preparations,
          vin, the' dixir and pdte. These are the forms at present
          most employed."
            Dr. Chapusot, of Paris, thus sums up his personal ob
          servations:"A claret-glass of this wine has always been
          enough to make me forget hunger and to sustain my
          strength; I have felt a grateful warmth and a general
          exaltation of the economy ; the digestion of the following
          meal has always been easier than if I had not taken the
          Vin Mariani, and, although I had not such a ravenous
          appetite as if I had gone without it, I ate a good deal, the
          stomach appearing stronger and more active."
            It was Dr. Ch. Fauvel who gave our wine the very strik
          ing and exact title of "Tensor of the vocal cords." He
          says: "Thanks to Vift Mariani, I have been able tq restore
          the voice of many lyric artists who would have been unable
          without this potent agent to give their performances."
            Dr. J. Leonard Corning, in Brain Exhaustion, New York,
          1884, pages 78 and 112,says: "Of all the medicaments that.
          I employ in the very numerous cases of irritability, Virt-
          Mariani has rendered the greatest service. I do not except
          even the bromides, for this preparation of Coca possesses-
          the calmative properties of those salts without producing
          the unpleasant depression which characterizes them."
            The same author continues:
           "The Vi7t Mariani is the remedy par excellence for eimui.
                              54

At the same time it produces a fortifying action on the
cerebral center and gives rise to a decided sensation of
well-being."
  Dr. Morell Mackenzie, London, advises the Vin Mariaiii
as a stimulant and tonic, and uses it especially with speak
ers and singers.
                                         19 Harley Street,
                                   Cavendish Square, W., London.

  Gentlemen:—I have much pleasure in stating that I
have used the Vin Mariani for many years, and consider it
a valuable stimulant, particularly serviceable in the cases
of vocalists.
                   Yours faithfully,
                               Morell Mackenzie, M. D.

  Professor Sajous, of Philadelphia, who has experimented
with Vin Mariani in troubles of the vocal organs, has
obtained excellent results from its use, and he advises
it, not only as a restorative of the voice, but as a general
tonic.
  Dr. Libermann,Surgeon-in-Chief, French Army,commu
nicates his experience, as follows:
 "I have the honor to inform you of the results which I
have obtained in my long career of military practice from
the use of Vin Mariani.
  "I have used it with great success for profound anaemia
resulting from long and tedious campaigns in hot countries,
and accompanied, as is nearly always the case, by gastro
intestinal irritation with loss of appetite and dyspepsia.
Two or three Bordeaux-glasses of Vin Mariani daily, re
moved that condition quite rapidly,by restoring the appetite
and the tolerance of the stomach for a tonic aliment.
 "I have also employed it in cases, happily rare in our
army, of chronic alcoholism" resulting from the abuse of
brandy,absinthe or strong liquors. The Vin Mariani pro
duced all the excitement sought by drinkers, but had at
                          — 55 —


the same time a sedative influence on their nervous sys
tems. I have frequently seen hardened drinkers renounce
their fatal habit and return to a healthy condition.
 "I have also used Vtn Mariani to save smokers of ex-
aggerated habits, from nicotinism. A few glasses of Vin
Mariani taken in small doses, either pure or mixed with
water, acted as a substitute for pipes and cigars, because
the smokers found in it the cerebral excitement which
they sought in tobacco, wholly preserving their intellectual
faculties.
  "I have also employed it with success for chronic bron
chitis and pulmonary phthisis. Vin Mariatii increases the
appetite and diminishes the cough in these two morbid
states.
 "To combat the cough I give it mixed with water in the
form of tisane, a Bordeaux-glass of Coca wine in a glass of
water.
 "Besides I have used it to the greatest advantage in
convalescence from typhoid fever, when no wine, not even
Bordeaux, was retained by the stomach on account of gas
tric irritation which is the rule after fevers of this nature.
  "Although I have confined myself to giving but a rapid
glance at the results that I have obtained, I have the sta
tistics, which I keep in reserve should they be needed.
 "I can certify that Vi7i Mariani is the most powerful
weapon that can be put in the hands of military physicians
to combat the diseases,the infirmities, and even the vicious
habits engendered by camp life and the servitude of mili
tary existence."
  Dr. Villeneuve, among other cases of morphinomania
conquered by the combined use of the pdte and the Vin
Mariani, communicated to us in 1884 the following obser
vation :
 "M. X         , barrister, 32 years of age, five years ago
began to use morphine preparations as a remedy against a
very alarming chronic bronchitis and granulations in the
                         — 5G —

throat, which were irritated constantly by cigarette smok
ing.
  "The patient at first only used morphine, but his phy
sicians committed the imprudence of treating him by
hypodermic injection. A notable change for the better
was produced during the first month, but, unfortunately,
abuse succeeded promptly the use of the medicament—
so much so that when I commenced to treat the patient, he
was taking daily from 1 gramme 50 centigrammes to 1
gramme 80 centigrammes of morphine hypodermically.
When he was four hours without his dose there appeared
insomnia, hallucinations and delirium; constipation last
ing sometimes for fifteen days, which brought on in the
spring a very alarming perityphlitis, jerking of the mus
cles, sudden frights, dyspepsia, and at last frightful con
gestion of the face whenever he drank a drop of wine or
brandy.
  "After a month's treatment I had succeeded in reducing
the daily doses without causing alarming symptoms; the
physiological functions seemed to awaken again. How
ever, the congestion and especially the dyspepsia was very
grave, and the cough which had been suppressed by mor
phine returned. It was then that I treated my patient
with phosphate of lime, the pdte and the Vin Mariani.
Lacking his habitual stimulant, he was plunged in a semi-
coma from which he could not always be relieved with
weaker daily doses of morphine.
 "The danger I feared most was a relapse of bronchitis,
and that the cough and expectoration might end fatally.
But in about a week, during which he took ten doses of
Pdte de Coca daily, the cough became less fatiguing and dis
appeared entirely in about twenty days. The patient then
commenced to take small doses of Vin Mariani(two Madeira-
glasses a day). At first congestion appeared, but little by
little, as digestion became more easy, my patient, who on
account of his profound anaemia could not tolerate any
                          — 57 —


table wines, took at first a small glass, then two, then three
glasses at a meal. Now he can go and take his dinner in .
town, which he had not been able to do for three years; he
regained his former vigor, is able to undertake anew his
occupations,and has entirely given up his morphine habit."
  We will conclude our quotations, already too numerous,
with an article by Dr. Scaglia, published in 1877 in the
Gazette des Hopitaux; "La Coca et ses proprietds thera-
peutiques."
 "In anaemia, connected with chronic pulmonary affec
tions withoitt fever, and in,anaemia accompanied by gas-
tralgia, Vi?i Mariani has an excellent effect. Its stimulat
ing properties can also be admirably made use of in those
intermediate states of impaired health which are not yet
anaemia,but must in the end become so ; physical or mental
overwork, the cerebral weakness due to excess of work or
pleasure; the exhaustion from which the inhabitants of
large cities suffer through irregularities of diet and imper
fect hygiene owing to their positions and surroundings.
  "The moderate use of Viti Mariani is unquestionably of
benefit to people of sedentary habits worn out by work, to
convalescents who, from a prolonged confinement in bed
have lost muscular strength, to patients suffering from
diabetes or Bright's disease, whose muscles have lost their
elasticity and vigor.
  "Let us add that the taste of Vin Mariani is exquisite,that
it is in no way suggestive of drugs, and that its use is
acceptable to the most fastidious."
  Ordinary Dose—Two or three claret-glassfuls daily, half
an hour before or immediately after eating.
  Coca Grog.—By mixing a wineglassful of Vin Mariani
with half a glassful of boiling water,sweetened to the taste,
we get a grog of exquisite flavor, and capable of rendering
the greatest services whenever an immediate effect is de
sired in severe cases of cold, attended by convulsive
coughing. (As prescribed by Dr. Libermann.)
                           ^ 58 —


                   ELIXIR MARIANI.


  The Elixir Mariani is more alcoholic, very agreeable
to the taste, and three times as highly charged "with
the active principles of the Peruvian leaf as the Vin
Mariani; therefore it should be taken in doses of a
liqueur-glassful, in the morning upon rising, and after
the two principal meals.
  It may be used clear or mixed with water, in nearly all
cases where the Vin Mariani is used. Its tonic and emi
nently digestive properties and its special aroma, at once
mild and penetrating, make it an agreeable liqueur, very
much esteemed by gourmets and persons who are careful
about their health.
  A small glass of the Elixir Mariani taken after a meal,
spreads a gentle warmth through the stomach and calls
forth an abundant secretion of gastric juice, which mixes
with the food and facilitates digestion.
  For travelers, hunters, and in general all who walk
much and who are exposed to fatigue, to dampness,
and to fog, the use of the Elixir Mariani may be recom
mended and will render admirable service, because of
the tone and strength that it gives to the stomach and
to the muscles.
  Dr. Collins, Rdvue de Thirapeutique, observes that this
liqueur acts "heroically"in anaemia, chlorosis and rickets.
  Dr. Ch. Fauvel, Dr. Conqueret, Dr. Villeneuve, Dr. Cha-
pusot. Dr.Odin,Dr.Cintrat and others declare as the result
of their clinical observations that the Elixir Mariani exerts
a "masterly action" in granular pharyngitis, quinsy, and
albuminuria, and that its stimulating properties on the
whole nervous system cannot be denied.
  Dr. J. Leonard Corning, of New York, recommends the
Elixir Mariani as a strengthener of the brain.
 "As a remedy in seasickness, the Elixir Mariani has
                             — 59 —


    always given excellent results."—Dr. Blant, Dr. Letellier,
    Dr. Trossat, Dr. Derrecagaix.
      The Elixir Mariani is generally prescribed in doses of a
    liqueur-glassful after the principal meals. Mixed with cold
    water, in the proportion of two liqueur-glassfuls to a tum
    bler of water,it constitutes a very strengthening and pleas
    ant drink.



          PATE MARIANI (LOZENGES OF COCA).

      Tonic and pectoral, Pdte Mariatii is a Lozenge very
    agreeable to the taste, which is prescribed daily with the
    greatest success by throat specialists for obstinate coughs,
    granular catarrh of the throat, and the various inflamma
    tions of the digestive and respiratory passages. Composed
    only of clarified gum, sugar and Coca, without a trace of
    opium or of any narcotic substances, it may be taken with
    out danger at any hour of the day and in any quantity,
    without fear of its disturbing the digestion, since, on the
    contrary, it can only aid it. From six to ten of the Loz
    enges daily are the usual dose, but more -may be taken if
    necessary.
      Its beneficial action is due to the happy combination of
    the emolient properties of pure gum-arabic and the tonic,
    astringent and analgesic properties of Coca.
      "Pdte Mariani has a powerful tonic action on the larynx,
    and, like Vin Mariajii, it is invaluable in cases of aphonia
    caused by feebleness or relaxation of the vocal cords. This
    property is of special advantage to singers and orators. Pdte
    Mariani is a very valuable substitute in granular catarrh of
    the throat and throat affections in general, for chlorate of
    potassium pastilles and the various lozenges containing
    opium, etc., the Pdte Mariani is more agreeable to the taste
    and produces anaesthetic and soothing effects." (Gazette des
    Hopitauxi)         •




A
                           — CO —

    PASTILLES MARIANI (COCA AND COCAINE).

   TEe Pastilles Mariam are used in the same cases as the
       from ■which they differ only by the addition of two
 milligrammes of Cocaine hydrochlorate to each pastille.
  Their action is much more intense and more rapid than
 that of the Coca paste.
   The paroxysms of cough which are so frequent and so
 annoying to those who smoke tobacco to excess, are over
 come as if by enchantment by the use of a few pastilles.
   Dose—Four to eight daily. This amount, however, may
be exceeded, at the discretion of the physicians.


THE MARIANI, OR CONCENTRATED EXTRACT
        OF COCA (TEA MARIANI).

  As its name indicates, Mariani's concentrated extract of
Coca, or Thd Mariani, contains within a small bulk all the
active principles of the Coca leaf. This extract, prepared
in special apparatuses which prevent all alteration and pre
serve all its properties and all its aroma, answers entirely
in the various modes of using Coca and constitutes a most
scrupulously exact preparation in dose, the most conven
ient and the most active that could be desired.
  ThdMartant is capable of indefinite preservation and easy
of transportation; it renders great service to persons who
make mountain ascensions, fatiguing marches, or long
journeys through unhealthy countries, and in fact in what
ever may be called fatiguing work or pleasure.
  Thd Martani may be taken in the dose of from three to
six teaspoonfuls in the course of the day, clear, or mixed
with brandy, wine, water or milk, etc., hot or cold, in
the latter cases sweetened to taste, if desired
                           — 61 —

   Coca Tea or Infusion. —A teaspoonful of the Thi
 Martam, added to a cup of hot water, sweetened to the
 taste, with or without the addition of creani or milk, makes
 a very agreeable drink, more digestive, more tonic, and
 less exciting than coffee or tea, while possessing in a
 higher degree the tonic and stimulating properties of
 those two substances.
   It is in this form that Coca is especially used in Peru and
 Bolivia, where it is preferred to the Chinese tea.
   Persons who drink Chinese tea at meals may advan
tageously substitute the Thd Maria7ii for it.
   For patients who cannot generally take milk, it is ad
visable to add The Mariani. Excellent results will be
obtained.
   Coca Gargles and Sprays.—Independently of its tonic
and reconstituent action. Coca possesses anaesthetic and
soothing properties that have been observed and made use
of in practice by laryngologists in the form of a spray, in
the proportion of a teaspoonful of Thd Alaria^ii to half a
glassful of warm water.
   An ambulance physician of Tonkin, who has experi
mented with Thd Mariaiii, sends the following note:
  "Thd Mariam has rendered us real service during expe
ditions as well as in hospital practice; on the march it
makes with boiled water, with or without the addition of
sugar, a very agreeable, tonic and stimulating drink ; a
veritable reserve food,it takes the place of alcoholic drinks
and insufficiency of food, and aids the men in bearing the
most distressing fatigue. The water of swamps, rivers or
ditches, mixed with a few spoonfuls of ThdMarimii, covhh
be drank without any inconvenience, and assuaged thirst.
  "Thd Mariaiii stimulates the appetite, overcomes atony
of the digestive organs, and prevents and combats diarrhoea
efficiently.
 "Mixed in small quantity with fresh or condensed
milk, it gives it an agreeable taste and causes it to be
                         — 62 —


borne by the most delicate stomachs; hence it becomes a
valuable adjuvant in the treatment of the endemic dysen
teries and diarrhoeas of tropical countries.
  "-Finally, its exclusive use, even its excessive use for
several days, has not seemed to us to exert any injuri
ous influence on the system, as the abuse of coffee or of
alcoholic drinks had certainly done under like circum
stances."
  Dr. Fordyce Barker, Dr. J. H. Douglas, Dr. Henry B.
Sands and Dr. Geo. F. Shrady have authorized us to make
known that it was due to TM Mariani, added to milk
(in the proportion of a teaspoonful of the TM to a cup of
milk), that they were able to nourish Gen. Grant, the ex-
President, when he was unable to support any other food.
By this means they succeeded in prolonging the life of
their illustrious patient for several months.
  Coca taken in infusion gave excellent results to Tschudy
while he was sojourning in the valley of the Puna, the
highest in Bolivia, which has given its name to the disease
of mountain sickness, known in Peru by the name Mai de
Puna, also designated by the words sorroche, veta and mareo;
this last term shows clearly enough the analogy which
exists between sea-sickness and the influence of great alti
tudes on the human body. Experience has proved the
usefulness of Coca against dyspnoea and vomiting, so that
the Indians who make ascensions always carry a stock of
Coca with them. Dr. Tschudy found himself comfortable
by the use of it while hunting in those valleys, at a height
of ten to twelve thousand feet above the sea.
  Dr. Salemi, of Nice, gives an account of a case of epi
lepsy in a woman, 38 years of age, cured by the daily and
prolonged use of TM Mariani, given in increasing doses
(ten drops daily at first and eighty drops daily.at the end
of a month). This case is not an isolated one.
                                            — 63 —


                                 "NEW REMEDIES."


             Thus concludes this interesting article by Dr. Henry
          Schweig:
           "When,two years ago, attention was called by Koller to
         the anaesthetizing power of a solution of Cocaine when ap
         plied to mucous surfaces, fresh interest was created in the
         plant from which the alkaloid is derived. I do not desire
         to encroach on my limited space by detailing the various
         experiences of observers who, from time to time, studied
         the effects of the administration of Coca leaves or their
         extract. Sujffice it to say that, while some authors extol the
         virtues of the plant, others fail to find anything in its
         action which would justify them in according it a place
         among our remedial agents.
           "Here, again, the same objection already mentioned—
         viz., the improper preparation of the substance employed,
         as well as an inferior quality of the crude drug (the leaves
        in this case)—serves as an explanation of the difference in
        results obtained.
          "In a series of experiments conducted by me (in private
        as well as dispensary practice), looking to a clearer under
        standing of the value of Coca in laryngeal complications,
        (1) I have arrived at conclusions which justify me in saying
        that not alone is Coca a valuable addition to our therapeutic
        armamentarium,but a drug which can be almost absolutely
        relied upon to exert its specific action in certain disorders
        of the upper respiratory tract.
          "In that distressing condition in which the tensors of
        the vocal band are at fault, when there is phonatory leakage
        and an impairment of ability to produce the higher tones.
        Coca can be relied upon to give prompt relief, if not per-
          (i) My attention was first called to Coca as applied to laryngeal diseases by
        the late Dr. Louis Elsberg, as well as by the writings of Charles Fauvel and
        Morell Mackenzie.




hj, .
                         — 6i —


manently,at least temporarily. It is understood, of course,
that I here refer only to those cases in which there is want
of J^nervous force,' and not where there is paresis due to
organic changes.
  "Vocalists and public speakers frequently complain of
the distressing sequelae of follicular pharyngitis which
manifest themselves when the voice is inordinately ex
erted. The irritation of the throat in these cases is
sometimes quite marked. The enlarged follicles, as also
the large patches where the follicles have coalesced, be
come turgid and deeply red, the tendency to cough is
increased, and the voice, which may have been previ- ,
ously clear, becomes veiled and thin. There is a feeling
of constriction present, painful as well as alarming to
the patient. Coca in these cases, when exhibited in its
proper form, is prompt in its effects, and can be ad
ministered in suitable quantities for many months, or
even years, without producing any of those objectionable
symptoms attributed to it.
  "Dyspnoea due to laryngeal reflexes is often relieved by
Coca, the first dose being a full one,and small doses follow
ing at short intervals to sustain the effect produced in the
first instance.
 "I have frequently observed that a sustained effort in
Ihe matter of singing, lecturing, etc., will produce a con
dition of 'fatigue' of the voice, in which there is no
appreciable change in the appearance of the vocal ap-
qjaratus, but which, nevertheless, interferes in a marked
■degree with the proper use of the voice. Whether this
.state is due to over-exertion of the laryngeal or pharyn-
 igeal muscles, or whether irritation of the terminal nerve
  filaments of the upper air passages stands in causative
 relation thereto, be this as it may. Coca stands pre-emi
  nently forth as the only remedy which in my hands has
  given relief. True, I have many failures to record, but
 can trace them directly to either the manner of exhibit-
                                — 65 —


ing the remedy or its inferior quality.(1) If the effect
desired is a prompt one, a decided impression should be
 made by the first dose, and this, as stated above, can be
sustained by smaller doses frequently repeated.
  "The vagaries and wild delusions of writers (non-pro
fessional, of course) for the daily press have done much to
poison the popular mind regarding Coca, and this often
proves a serious drawback to the physician. The few
cases in which'Cocaine' has been abused have served as
a basis for launching forth a wild and wholesale condem
nation of a valuable drug. Not one instance has come
to my knowledge in which any preparation of Coca,
intelligently employed, except the alkaloid, has produced
even the faintest toxic symptoms. As well discard mor
phia, chloral, cannabis indica, and the bromides, for the
reason that they count the victims to their abuse by
the thousands every year. All potent medicinal agents
are placed in our hands to be intelligently and temper
ately employed, not to excess, and the medical man who
would hesitate to call to his aid a medicinal agent for
no other reason than that it is abused, should be, in my
estimation, classed with that horde of fanatics who would
interdict the use of alcoholics on the ground of their
abuse by a small minoidty of the population."—New York
Medical Monthly, October, 1886.




                   IMPORTANT CAUTION.



  Owing to tlie success obtained by our preparations of
Coca for many j^ears, imitators and counterfeiters have
dared to apply to their own valueless productions the ob-
 (i)The only preparations which have given me uniformly good results are
those of Mons. Mariani, of Paris.
                          — 6G —


servations made with our special products. These occur
rences, often repeated, have given rise to protests from
m^y physicians, among others Dr. W. Oliver Moore, Sir
Morell Mackenzie, Dr. Ch. Fauvel.

To the Editor of the Nezv York Medical Journal;
  Sir: In your issue of January 3,1885, pagelQ,in a report
of a paper read before the New York Medical Society, on
"The Physiological and Therapeutical Effects of the Coca
Leaf and its Alkaloid," occurs the following: "For over
twenty years Dr. Fauvel has used it, both internally in the
form of Vin Mariani, and also by local applications to the
pharynx and larynx in spray or by brush, in the form of a
fluid extract, or, more recently, of a concentrated non
alcoholic preparation more of the nature of a cordial (pre
pared by Mariani & Co.)."
  Several manufacturers of Coca preparations have taken
occasion to quote from this paper, each in turn substituting
the name of his own production instead of the one men
tioned in the original.
  As the preparations of Coca mentioned in my paper were
personally tested and found to be the best of a large num
ber experimented with, I wish to call attention to these
misquotations and substitutions.
                        Very truly,
                                W. Oliver Moore, M.D.



      We have taken the trouble to compare the report of
Dr. Moore's remarks with the little book on Coca prepared
by M. Mariani, and with the circulars issued by a number
of manufacturers of Coca preparations ; and we certainly
think that some of these manufacturers have taken an un
warrantable liberty in appropriating work that evidently
cost M. Mariani a good deal of time and no little outlay of
 money.—Editor.
                            — 67 —


             New York MedicalJournal, October 24, 1885.
  "In another column we publish a letter from Dr. W.
 Oliver Moore, calling attention to an injustice that certain
 competing pharmacists have practiced toward Messrs.
 Mariani & Co., in'pirating' published records of the suc
 cessful use of the Mariani preparations of Coca, and at the
same time craftily making these records appear to apply to
their own preparations. It is very much to be regretted
that a house that has been so punctilious in avoiding even
the semblance of any offense against the courtesy of trade
should have been treated in this shabby way by some rival
manufacturers."




                  31 Rue Gu^n£gaud, Paris, Dec. 8, 1887.
To the Editor of the New York MedicalJournal;
        Will you kindly have it announced in your jour-
nal, in justice to myself before the medical profession,
that the various notices appearing in journals and cir
culars quoting my name in connection with Coca are
entirely false and in every respect a prevarication ? The
only preparation of Coca employed by me vith un
doubted and uniform success has been the so-well-known
Vtn Mariani, which, since 1865, I have had occasion to
prescribe daily in my clinique, as well as in private prac
tice. My opinion of this valuable medicament has, dur
ing many years, been frequently made known for the
benefit of the profession in various writings, and it is
but just to this worthy preparation that it receive all
the honor due it. I thank you for compliance with my
request.
                                                  Ch. Fauvel.
                               — 6S


        A gracious compliment has been paid M. Mariani for
      the high standard and excellence of his preparations,
      not only by the numerous honorable mentions and in
      dorsements by the prominent members of the medical
      profession and those who have had occasion to use his
      Coca preparations, but latterly through the following
      awards:
        Gold Medal and Silver Medal from the Academie Na-
      tionale de France; Gold Medal and a Grand Diploma of
      Honor from the Wine Exhibit of Bordeaux, France ; Gold
      Medal and a Diploma of Honor at the Hygienic Exhibit
      at Amsterdam, Holland, and a Gold Medal and Diploma
      at Leamington, England, the jury surnaming his Vm
      Mariani, "Wine for Athletes."
        We request those physicians, who kindly place confi
      dence in our preparations,to prescribe them under the name
      of Mariajii, and to insist that their prescriptions be scrupu
      lously executed.




m-S
                1ST Of Physicians who have been good enough
                  to formaily endorse "VIN MARIANI," their ex
                  perience in prescribing in hospital and private
                   practice having caused them to believe the
                   preparation valuable and reliable. To these
named gentlemen we hereby tender our most sincere
thanks for the aid given in further popularizing this
standard medicament among the Medical Profession,
through whom exclusively it has been introduced.
Abbott, F.,             Atkinson, A.,          Beck, Carl,             Bonnell, C. L.,
Acbeson, J. C.,         Adams, A. C.,          Becker. J. II.,         Byrne, John,
Adler, Isaac,           Adams, E. A.,          Bedford, Fred ,         Bryant, Melville,
Allen, C. W.,           Ammaim,J. B.,          Beekman, John C.,     Bunker, E. S.,
Allen, T, H.,           Ancrum, J. L.,         Belden, E. B.,        Bunker, H. A.,
Alsdorf, J.,            Angel, Isaac W.,       Benedict, Charles S., Burnham, Clark,
Anderson, 11. A. C.,    Alley, A. R.,          Berghaus, A.,         Butler, W. M.,
Anderson, Jos.,         Arnold, W. P.,         Bettini-Moise, J. de. Brewer, Hy. J.,
Andrews, J. A., /       Atchison, W. A.,       Billings, J. II.,     Barns, Geo. R.,
Anthes, F. C., /        Adams, C.W., .         Billington, C. E.,    Bowen, J. H.,
Arango, A. A.,          Anderson, S. II.,      Blackwell, E.,        Baker, Jennie V. H.»
Armstrong, O. W.,       Alleyne, J. S. B.,     Bliss, C.,              Ball, O. D.,
Arnold, G, Miles,       Ameiss, F. C.,         Blume, S.,              Barker, J. F.,
Ashinead. A. S., Jr.,   Allan, H. G.,          Bodenhamer, Wm.,        Bendell, Herman,
Aspinwull, Jos. B.,     Anderson, Turner,      Bogg, C. L.,            Blair, L. E.,
Allen, W. L.,           Allen, J. Adams,       Bonmfalk, C. W.,        Bigelow, J. M.,
Ashley, J. J.,          Armstrong, J. B.,      Boldt, H. J.,           Boyd, J. P.,
Ashwin, E. ll.i         Arndt, P. S.,          Bond, G. F. M.,         Bartlett, E. W.,
Aten, II. F.,       Arnulphy, B. S.,           Bosley, Geo. II.,       Biatner, J. H.,
Atwood, J. Freeman, Allen, H. P.,              Bradley, Ed.,           Bloss, R. D.,
Anderson, Wni.,         Albertson, A. L. F.,   Branth, J. II.,         Bontecou, R. B.,
Akin, Washington,       Andrews, N. J.,        Brendon, E. V.,         Burdeck, C. H.,
Archambeault, L. J.,    Armstrong, O. L.,      Breniian, J. W.,        Burton, M. H.,
Allen, Thos. G.,        Arnold, Lucy M.,       Brewer, G. E ,          Blumer, G. Alder,
Andrews, J. B ,         Abbott, A. W.,         Brickelmaier, \V. J.,   Booth, Wilbur H.,
Armstrong, J. S.,       Anderson, J. I).,      Brill, N. E.,           Benedict, A. C.,
Ailing, W. G.,          Atkinson, Clara E.,    Brooks, G.              Breese, A. B.,
Andrews, W.D.,          Auten, A. J.,          Bronson, E. B.,         Butler, Frank H.,
Avery, Goo. W.,         American. S.,          Brosman, J. S.,         Backus, A.,
Aikeii, E. W.,          Arnold, J. D.,         Brcnvn, M. B.,          Blauler, R.,
Ayer, J.,               Arnold, A. B.,         Browning, J. H. B.,     Brownell, W. G.,
Ayer, J. B.,            Anthony, A. G.,        Bruce, C. E.,           Burke, J. J. A.,
Atwater, I). F.,        Anderson, Jos.,        Buchanan, Thos.,        Buell, Jesse W.,
Allen, E. S.,           Auerbach, L.,          Buck, E. v..            Bartlett, F. W.,
Angell, Emery A.,       Anderson, B. P.,       Buck, R. II.,           Bartow, Bernard*.
Anthony, W. E.,         Andrews, N. J.,        Buffum, C. T.,          Bull, L. A.,
Agnew,I). Hayes,        Alliez,                Burian, J. J.,          Blood, N. D.,
Allison, E. W.,         Astie,                 Burns, 11. M.,          Bemus, Wm. M.,.
Amick, J. II. B.,       Anger, B.,             Biirrall, F. A.,        Bacon, Wm.T.,
Andrews, T. 11.,        Avloing,               Burt, S. S.,            Beach, C. C.,
Apeldom, Ernst F.,      Bacon, Gorham,         Bilhoefer, A, J.,       Booth, Jas. \V.,
Armstrong, W. C.,       Balken, W. S.,         Butts, H. Iloyle,       Baker, A. J.,
Ashton, Samuel K.,      Bangs, L. Bolton,      Bottum, Geo. H.,        Barrett, W. M.,
Atlee, W. F.,           Banks, E. A.,          Berghold, Hy. J.,       Balisdell. W. C.,
Atlee, W. L., •         Barker, Asahel,        Bartley. Elias H.,      Blake, Clarence J.,.
Andrews, K. II.,        Barker,Fordyce,        Baylcs, H.B.,           Blodgett, A. N.,
Archibahl, lly. C.,     Barnett, S.,           Beardsley, W. E.,       Blood, K. A.,
Ash, H. St. Clair,      Bartlett, Wm. A.,      Belcher, W.N.,          Broderick, T. J.,
Allinder, 1). G.,       Baruch, Simon,         Bellows, C. M.,         Brooks, Charles G.„
Aisbitt, M. S..         Bate.s, E, S.,         Bird, Jas. R.,          Bush, J. Foster,
Amthor, Itobert,        Bean, Jas. A.,         Bodkin, D.G.,           Blodgett, C..
Ashby, T. A.,           Beane, F. D.,          Bogart, J. B.,          Bowles, S. W.,
                                         — 70 —

Breck, Theo. F.,      Brewer, W. P.,         Babcock, W. D.,        Claiborne,J.Hrbt.,Jr.,
Bell, W. A.,          Blrckell, F. H.,       Blickensderfer, J. C., Clason, S. W.,
Ballou, C. O.,        Baker, 11. C.,         Buchtel, VV. H.,       Olift, G. D.,
Brown, A. W.,         Block,J.,              Burnham, N. G.,        Cqcks, David C.,
Brug, G. A.,          Bowker, S. D.,         Breysacher, A. B.,     Cocks, Edmund L.,
Bogman, Eclw. Y.,     Bowman, J. W.,         Bower, A.S.,           Cocks, G. II.,
Baker,Waslilugtou II., Bauduy, J. K.,        Bryant, D. O.,         Conrad, H. B.,
Barr, J. W.,          Bernays, A. C.,         Birkins, Ernest R.,   Conway, Jno., Jr.,
Barton, Isaac,        Boisliuiere, L. Ch.,    Boyd, R. F.,          Cook, Daniel,
Barton, J. M.,        Boisliniere, Louis,Jr., Ball, B.,             Cooke, Baldwin G.,
Bauer, C.,            Briggs, Waldo,         Barr6,                 Cooper, Henry C.,
Bell, E. H.,          Brennan, W. N.,        Barth,                 Corning, J. Leonard.
Berens, Bernard,      Bailey, Wm.,           Basset, L.,            Cmmer. Charles C.,
Berens, C.,           Bindewald, W. A.,      Battesti,              Crandall, F. M.,
Bernardy. E. P.,      Blackburn. Cai-y B.,   Baraduc,               Crane, Jos. Sidney,
Bissey, H! S.,        Bloom, 1. N.,          Barety,                Culver, E. M.,   ^
Bliss. A. A.,         Bullock, Thos. S.,     Baudon,                Cummings, R. B.,
Boenning, H. C.,      Beall, T. T.,          Badal,                 Curtis, II. Ilolbrook,
Boyd, G. M.,          Brisbane, H. P.,       Balestre,              Cutter, Ephraim,
Boyer, Z. P.,         Babcock, Elmer E.,     Baratoux,              Cross, T. M. 13.,
Bournoiiville, A. C., Ballard, W. H.,        Beclard,               Clements, Geo. Place,
Bradfield, G. Milton. Bartlett, Rufus H.,    Bcder, Hy.,            Carey, J. M.,
Bradford, T. Hewson, Bates, Homer O.,        Bert, Paul,            t ohn, Louis,
Brintou, L.,          Bates, J. U.,          Bernard, Cl.,          Cutler, Condit W.,
Brown, J. M.,         Bell, J. B.,           Besnier,               Cramner, Charles C.,
Brown, W. K.,         Benson, John A.,       Betances,              Cable, J. C.,
Bi-ubaker, A. P.,     Bettmann, Boerne,      Beugnies-Corbeau,      Caemmerer, Wm. H.,
Burns,\V. A.,         Bishop, R. W.,         Beirut,                Candidus,P.,
Bryan, H.N.,          Bishop, S. S ,         Bertheraud,            Carter, N. M.,
Buckley, Wm.C,,       Bougnton, D. F..       Berne,                 Catlin, A. W.,
Baker, C. H.,         Bragdon, M. C.,        Berthier,              Church, Stuart,
Baker, C. S.,         Brown, M. R.,          Belloc,                Conkling, John T.,
Bachman, G. A.,       Buffum, J. II..        Benoit,                Conway, John J.,
Bingaman, C. F.,      Byford, Hy. T.,        Bissieu,               Cooper, John,
Burgher, J. C.,       Bemis, J. G.,          Blache,                Coverly,John H.,
Beaver, Llewelyn,     Barlow, L. N.,         Blanche,               Creamer, Jos.,
Burnett, J.,          Baxter, W. W.,         Bloch, Ad.,            Cashing, Geo. W.,
Baker, J. E.,         Bond, T. B.,           Blondlot,              Codington-Nicker-
Blair, A.R.,         Blaiiie, H. G.,         Blanc,                     son, F. R.,
Bowers, M. K.,       Barker, A. B.,          Bochefontalne,         Cook, C. P.,
Baldwin, A. K.,      Booth, John T.,         Bordereau,             Carroll, S. H.,
Burage, R. L.,       Bradford, T. C.,        Bottentuit,            Classen. Fred L.,
Burnht, Jas. B.,     Bronson,0, C.,          Bouchardat,            Cox, Geo. A.,
Baldwin,A. Van Nest, Bruunijig, Frank,       Boucomonc,             Cooper, Jno. L.,
Baldwin, II. R.,     Buckner, Ja.s. 11.,     Bouchut,               Cox, Jas. W.,
Bogardus, H. J.,     Boylan, J. E.,          Bouloumie,             Clark, 0. G.,
Bush, L.P.,          Bramble, 1). D.,        Bouvyer, G.            Crandall, E. L.,
Bell, A. T.,         Bodman,Lewis II.,       Bourdon,               Clement, C. L.,
Benziuger, J. C..     Beck, John C.,         Bourquet,              Cameron, C. McD.,
Bevan, 0. F.,         Baker, A. R.,          Bonnal,                Collins, Newton M.,
Biedier, H. H.,       Buell, A. C.,          Bourgade,              Conklin, W. L.,
Bowie, H. S.,         Buell, E. C.,          Bories,                Connelly, J. F.,
Boyle, John Brooke,   Bolinger,Dr.,          Botkin-Serge,          Campbell, F. R.,
Brewer, G. G.,        Baldwin, J. F.,    Brown-Sequard,             Cary, Charles,
Brewer, Marbury,      Buckingham,John M. Br^moud,                   Clark, Ed.,
Bayne, J. W.,         Bigger, R. H.,         Brachet,               Colt, Geo. F.,
Bird. J. C.,          Bryan, Thos. N.,       Brandt,                Colton, H. E.,
Bond, Samuel S.,      Best, L. E.,           Buttura,               Cook, Jos. T.,
Bromwell, J. R.,      Bodle. A. T.,          Browne, Lennox,        Curtis, J. S.,
Bulkley, J. VV.,      Brigham, H. C.,        Oaille, Augustus,      Crothers, T. D.,
Burnett, S. M.,       Bass, G. W.,           Cammann, D. M.,        Carrington, H. A.,
Bryan, J. H.,         Bates, Geo. T.,        Campbell, Robert,      Chapman,S.Hartwell.
Busey, C. E.,         Beaumont, J. F.,       Cannon, Mott D.,       Cheney, B. H.,
Brodie, R. L.,        Beard, R. O.,          Cardner, I. G.,        Carleton, E. A.,
Buist, J. S.,         Brackett, A. R ,       Carman, A. R.,         Cliamberlain, M. L.,
Bak, II.,             Burton, Frank,         Carmon, F. W.,         Chandler, H. B.,
Brandt, C. N.,        Bell, J. W.,           Carnochan, J. M.,      Clark, A. W.,
Bessard, A.,          Boardman, C. H.,       Carradine, J. S.,    Clement, G. W.,
Brlggs, J. R.,        Burdett, H. E.,        Cari-eau, Jos. S.,   Cole, R. M.,
Beall, E. J..         Beckh, G. C.,          Carter, DeLancey,    Culver, J. K.,
Braunnagel, Julius,   Boericke, Wm.,         Cauldwell, Chas. M., Cushing, E. W.,
Bayley, R. A.,        Bucknall, Geo. J.,     Chadbourne, E. R.,     Cutter, C. K.,
Beard, J. C.,         Burgess, O. O.,        Cliaim, M. L.,         Caldwell, Wm.,
Bezou, 11.,           Bradway, J. U.,        Chambers, P. F.,       Carr, G. W.,
Borde, J.,            Buckel, C. A.,         Chapman, R. F.,        Collins, G. L.,
Bornio, B.,           Burnham, F. R.,        Chauveau, Jean F.,     Currier, D. M.,
                                           — 71 —

Corey, Charles,         Clark, F. U.,          Douglas, J. H.,       Doering, E. J.,
Campbell, U, S.,        Carpenter, G. H.,      Bufloo, Armand,       Borland, E. H.,
 C'app, W. M.,          Champlin, 11. B.,      Buggan, Jas. A.,      Dandridge, N. P.,
 Carrier, Frederick,   . Chamberlain, B. P.,   Dwinelie, W. H.,      Bawson, W. W.,
 Castle. F. B.,         Chapman, W. C.,        Burrie, G. B.,        Burstine, F. H.,
 Chiids, Wm. R.,        Clark, C. G.,          Beshon, Robt.,        Daykin. A.J.,
 Christian, II. M.,     Coleman, N. R.,        Be Bowes, Thos. N.,   Babney, S. G.,
Christine, O.ISIaxwell,, Caldwell, Frank,      Benison, R. N.,       Dembitz, H. C.,
Chrystie, Walter,        Conner, P. S.,       Dickinson, R. L.,      Bunlap, J. M.,
Clausen, J. R.,          Carpenter, Julia W., Boergeiis, Hugo,       Bevendorf, C. A.,
 Claxton, C.,           Clelland, Jas., Jr.,   Bower, A. J.,         Banforth, W.,
 Collins, J.,           Cree, Walter J.,       Dudley, W. F.,        Dunsmoor,F. A.,
Conrad, J. Reed,        Connell, F. G. L.,  Buryee, Geo. W.,         Darling, Jno. B.,
 Conner,I). N.,        Clay, T. Rutherford, Dallas, A. J.,      Benslow, Le Grand N.,
Craiidall, R. P.,      Chambers, John,      Bonohue.Florence O.,Donnelly, Ignatius,
Crowley, T. Stanton, Comingor, J. A.,          Doyle, Gregory,       Bake,Charles,
Curtin, R. G..       Combs, Geo. W.,           Barrow, C. E.,        Dennis, F. H.,
Cruice, Robt. B.,    Cunningham, II. S.,       Bavison, S. W.,     Docking, Thos.,
Crandall, T. V.,     Cockburn, J, C.,          Bayfoot, Herbert M. Dodge, Wm.,
Cadwallader, B. W., Carman, Win.,              Daniels, C. M.,       Bavisson, J. H.,
Chase, Robt. H.,    Corbett, S, J.,            Davidson, A. R.,      Beardorf, A. G.,
Corson, E. M.,      Clacius, C. E.,            Dorland,E. T.,        Benison,Chas.,
Chapman, M. J.,     Cohu, J. E.,               Bods, A. Wilson,      Bavis, W.N.,
Clark, H. H.,       Collins, J". W.,           Daggett, W. G.,       Banini,
Cooper, J. F.,          Cox, Geo. W.,          Dibble, F. L.,        Banet,
Cooper, John,           Craig, W.B.,           Davis, S. A.,         Daupley,
Connell, A. J.,         Chase, John,           Davison, A. T.,       Duverney,
Clark, J. Nelson,       Collings, S. P.,       Dearborne, R. F.,     Bebout, d'Estr6es,
Coover, J. H,,          Chapusot,              Be Blois, T. A.,      Behenne,
Clark, S. V. D.,        Cazaiis,               Desjardius, G, H.,    Belbet,
Clark, J. H..           Cabaiiellas.           Boy, W. C.,           Belineau,
Cox, H. L.,             Campardon,             Draper, F. W.,        De Navenne,
Chatard, F. E., Jr.,    Cazin, .               Durgin, S. H.,        Be Pezzer,
Chew, S. C.,            Cazaux,                Dwelly, J.,           Garigon-D^sardnes,
Chisholm, Julian J.,   Caseuave-Belaroche, Bow, W. W.,               Bechambre, A.,
Chunn, W. P.,          Calvet,                 Bavis, G. W.,         Bupuy,
Cook, Theo.,           Cabadet,                Bodge, R. L.,         Bupre,
Craiffhill, Jas. M.,   Cette, Bumas de,        Drake, H.H.,          Dupr^s,
Cockey, Charles H.,    Colona-Ceccaldi,        Bahlstroem, Max,      Bidiot,
Coffroth, H. J.,       Chabory,                Davidson, C. C.,      Bieulafoy,
Cuthhert, M. J.,       Cheron,                 Davidson, David,      Boleris,
Chalkley, C. H.,       Claude,                 Deal, Lemuel J.,      Buboi.s^
Claiborne, J. H.,      Clement,                Donnelly, John F.,    Dujardm-Beaumetz,
Chisholm, T. B.,       Colombo,                Bripps, John H.,      Edgar, J. Clifton,
Cantrelle, J. A.,      Commandrd,              Buer, E. L.,          Edson, Cyms,
Cain, J. S.,           Conueau, 11.,           Dwight, H. E.,        Egan, J. M, F.,
Coyle, J. M.,          (/'onqueret,            Dunning, Thos. S.,    Elebash, C, P.,
Cowling, Jas.,         Cornil,                 Betwiler, B. H.,      Elliot, G. T..
Collins, F. E.,        Cottin,                 Davis, A. J.,         Elliott, G. R.,
Case, Theo. S.,        Coupard,                Bickson, J. S.,       Eisner, E.,
Casseday, Frank F.,    Cozzolino, v.,          Duncan, J. A.,        Emerson, J. H.,
Chastlan, C. W.,       Collin, P.,             Berhamer, W. A.,      Emmett,B. McEvers,
Criag, J. T.,          Companyo,               Berry, W. E.,         Ellison, S. R.,
Crow, A. M.,           Combalat,               Dickinson, G. K.,     Elmer, A B ,
Carpenter, A. M.,      Collongues,             Dougherty, A. C.,     Eisberg, Louis,
Carson, N. B.,         Cochez,                 Bonohue, F. M.,       Ernst, P. H.,
Chancellor, E.,        Coupey,                 Draper, J. A.,        Egan, J. Wm.,
Coles, Walter,         Combal,                 Bashiell, N. L.,      Elliott, Geo. H.,
Comstock, T. G.,       Cros, A.,               Dovilliers, L. V.,    Eden, Samuel,
Campbell, Jas. A.,     Cuffer,                 Dunn, J. W.,          Edson, Benj.,
Collins, J. B.,        Cuneo,                  Bawson, J. S.,        Emery, Z. T.,
Cartledge, A. M.,      Banforth, L. L.,        Bawson, J. S.. Jr.,   Edwards, Thos. J.,
Cecil, John G.,        Bavis, Albert A.,       Be Saussure, P. G.,   Edwards, Geo. A.,
Cochran, S. L.,        Bayton, Wra. A.,        Daniel, R. P.,        Edwards, C. C.,
Cowpertuwaite,A.C., Beane, W. C.,              Bake, Wm.C.,          Edson, P. O'Meara,
Canfield, C. T.,    Dearborn, H. M.,           Daniel, J. W.,        Ellis, Dean S.,
Cary, Frank,           Demarest, Jno. H.,      Breifus, E..          Ely, J. W. C.,
Cobb, Jos. P.,         Benliard, C. E.,        Dannaker, C. A.,      Eckfeldt, John W..
Copeland, W.L.,      Bessar, Leonard A., Brake, N. A.,               Elder, T. H.,
Cyrier, C. E.,       Bimock, Thos.,      Day, Jas. L.,               Engel, Hugo,
Clarke, Ward Greene, Boane, L. G.,       Bixon, Chas. H.,            Elliott. Jas. L.,
i ook, J. Masson,      Bodin, Hy. A.,          Banforth, I. N.,      Euos, J. B.,
Casselberry, W. E.,    Donahue, N. M.,         Davis, Jos. J.,       Eastman, L. M.,
Coleman, W. F.,        Doming, John,           Bavis, N. S., Jr.,    Eilau, E. W.,
Canfield, Martha,      Doty, A. H.,            Delamater, N. B.,     Ellis, R. H. P.,
Carpenter, A. B.,      B^^ugherty, D,S.,       Dewey, Charles A.,    Edwards, I/andon B.,
                                              .T"r*r"   r--




                                                                                                  t. K
                                           — 72 —

Ely, Charles F.,        Fundenbers, W. F.,        Gunther, C. E.,         Gardeke,
Etheridge, J. U.,       Freeland, I. B.,          Glass, J. H.,           Gavat,
Eichberf?, Jos.,        Furmi.<s, Jos.,           Gleason, Geo. U.,       Gaiezowski,
Elder, E. S.,           Free, Spencer M.,         Gumberts, A. R.,        Gagnou,
Ewiii^r, \V. G.,        Fagar. Chas. B.,          Grove, Benj. II;,       Gibert,
Ehrhardt, J. G.,        Fewsmith, Jos., Jr.,      Goldberg, Siglsmund, Glorgi,
Endris, W'm. 11.,       Frantz, A. E.,            Garceau, A. E.,         Gieure,
Eff^;ers, J. T.,        Fisher, W. C.,            Goldthwaite, S. V.,     Gelineau,
Edwards, 11. T.,        Ferrell, J. R.,           Gunter, A. B.,          Gley,
Emerson, Justin E.,     Formento, Felix,          Gardner, C. T.,         Goubert, E.,
Eidemiller. L.,         Fourguette, P.,           Graves, T. T.,          Gouguenheim,
Eckel, J. N.,           Fischel, W. E.,           Gardner, W.,            Goiran,
Eisner, John,           Funkhauser, Robt.,        Gaunti, Chas. S.,       Gillet, de Grandmont,
Ellis, II. Bert,        Friedman, J.,             Garretson, Jas. E.,     Godleski,
Everett, Aml)ro3e L., Fraser, II. P.,             Gerhard, A. S.,         Gratiot,
Fassin, 0. II.,       Fellows, II. B.,            Getchell, P. II.,       Giiiraud,
Felffenblatt, Louis,  Fleming, C. K.,             Gibson, Wm. »T.,        Guillon,
Feimer, J. II,,         Foster. F. II.,           Giilespie, J., Jr.,     Guillebeau,
Fenwick, J. M.,         Fuller, Chas. G.,         Gilbert, I. B.,         Gubler,
Ferdinand, John E.,     Filler, Chas. E.,         Girvin, Edwin R.,       Grandvilliers,
Fisher, 0. S., Jr.,     Fisher, W. F.,            Grayson, C. P.,         Gentit,
Fislimaiin, Artliur,    Fairbairn, A. C.,         Green, G. D.,           Ilaase, H."W. A.,
Fleminj;, Martin J.,    French, G. F.,            Grior M. J.,            Habirshaw, Jno., *
Fleminj?, Walter M.,    Fletcher, W. B.,          Grove, J. H.,           Hamilton, Allen McL.,
Flint, Wm. U.,          Frank, Chas. P.,          Guth, Edward F.,        Hammond,Graeme M.,
Foster, Frank P.,       Falls, W. H.,             Gaertner, Frederick, Hanks, H. T.,
Fowler, Ed. P.,        < Fennel. OttoW.,          Greenawalt, Jacob,   Ilaun, Geo. V.,
Fowler,Geo. B.,         Forschneimer. F-,         Gable, I. C.,           Harris, J. W.,
Frankel, Ed.,        Fitzpatrick, T. V.,          Godfrey, E. L. B.,      Harrison, Juo. T.,
Frauenstein, Gustav, Fliedner, F.,                Gillin, K. P.,          Harrison, S. D.,
Freeman, N. K.,      Fortlage, IL,                Gray W. W.,             Harwood,Ed. C.,
Friedenberg:, A. H., Franks, F. C.,               Gage, A. L.,            Has.sloch, Wm.,
Fuller, Fraser C.,   Fraker H. C.,                Getz, Chas.,            Haupt, Louis,
Fields, W.J.,           Fullerton, E. B.,         Germon, F. W.,          Hayes, G. Dalton,
Foster, M. L.,          Fisher, Albert W.,        Gilliss, J. A.,         Helmuth, Wm.Tod,
Fischer, Louis,         Ferrer, Hy.,              Gorsuch, J. E.,         Henna, J. J.,
Fessenden, Benj. F., Fiske, IlenryM.,             Garnetl, A. Y.P.,       Henry, Morris H.,
Fleminf?, J. W.,'       Fay, W. W. M.,            Gardner, F. A.,         Henschel, E. K.,
Fowler, Geo. 11.,       Fisk. S. A.,              Graham, N. F.,          Hepburn, N. J.,
Fox, Sidney .-illen.    Fowier, Allen,            Goodman, H. M.,         Herb, Jos. A.,
Freeman, J. N.,         Felinck,                  Griffiths, W. Patton,   Herman, Henry,
French, Thos. li.,     Fraenkel,                  Garver, Jno. J.,        Heriick, Everett,
Fuhs, Jacob,           Fighiera,                  Gardiner, E. J.,        Heuel, Emil,
Fuller, Frances V. C., Fremy,                     Gilman, J. E.,          Hills, Alfred K..
Fuller, Stephen E.,    Favale,                    Gray, Jno. T.,          Hitchcock, Chas. H.,
Foss, S.,               Fredault,                 Grosvenor. L. C.,       Hitchcock, H. M.,
Fowler, Amos,           Fremineau,                Griffin, Byron W,,      Holcombe, Wm. P.,
Freeman, S. H.,         Farraut,                  Geiser, S. R.,          Honegger, O. P.,
Finder. Wm., Jr.,       Fauquez,                  Gores, F. C.,           Hope, Geo. B.,
Fisk, E. Jay,           Fauvel, Chas.,            Gillian, D. Tod,        Hopkins, J. S.,
Fell, Geo. E.,          Gage, Geo. C.,            Gerould, H.,            Howe, Jos. W.,
Folwell, M. B.,         Durand-Fardel,            Geddings, J. M. F.,     Hubbard, D. L.,
Foster, H. A.,          GaiTison, C. M.,          Greene, Frank,          Hubbard, Geo. E.,
Fernald, 0. A.,         Gaudineer, Wm. J.,        Goodrich, E. 0.,        Hunking, C. H.,
Follett, J. A.,         Gibbs S. E.,              Gordon, F. E.,          Hunt, D. B.,
Fafrnant, Benj.,        Gibney V. P.,             Gaudet, C. A.,          Hunt, Wm. B.,
Farnham, Edwin,         Gilbert. Jas. B.,         Garcia, Chas.,          Hunter, Jas. B.,
Flanders, F. B.,        Gillette, Waltt^r R.,     Glancies, J. B.,        Hoeber, E. W.,
Fiske, Elmer S.,        Girdner Jno. H.,          Glasgow, W. C.,         Hoyt, E. F.,
Fitch, C. L.,           Gleises, John,            Graves, Speticer,       Hopkins, J. L.,
Fales, W. H.,           Gleltsman, Jos."Wm., Goodman, C. H.,              Ilenning, F. H.,
Filler, C. W.,          Goelet, A. H.,       Gregory, E. H.,              Halleck, H. T.,
Fleming, G. A.,         Goodwillie, D. 11.,  Grlveaud, E. A.,             Harlin, W. H'y,
Fernald, F. C.,         Grandin, Egbert H., Guhman, N.,                   Hendrickson, S.,
Freer, J. A.,           Gray, Landon Carter, Graves, S. C.,               Hilton, E. L.,
Friedrich, L. L.,       Greenough, C. II.,   Griswold, J. B.,             Hogan, P. P.,
Franzoni, C. W.,        Griffin, E. Harrison,     Griffin, J. M.,         Howe,Jacob F.,
Francis, Jno, IL,       Griffiths, John G.,       Griswold, Chas.,        Hunt, Jos. IL,
Feldstein, Ad.,         Grimm, Albert C.,         Griswold, W.II.,        Hutchinson. W. M.,
Fenton, T. H.,          Grube, C. II.,            Gross, Geo..            Hyde, Joel \V.,
Finn, W. H.,            Guernsey, Egbert,         Gilllngham, C. F.,      Hasbrouck, E..
Ford, W. H.,            Guernsey, Wm. N.,         Garber, J. R.,          Homiston, E. W.,
Fox, L. Webster,        Gordon, Bernard,          Gamber, B. F.,          Hailes, Wm..
Fulton, T. Chalmers, Gardiner, W.P.,              Grimes, W. S.,          Hutchin.son, Edwin,
Frick, W. S.,           Giroux, T. C.,            Grasset,                Hopkins, Ira B.,
Fullmer, John J.,       Griffin, John,            Gazeau,                 Hauohett, R. C.,
                                                  73 —                                              f'f

Hovey, B. L.,              Heustis. J. F.,        Hall,                    Jeffries. W. E.,
Howard. Wm.B.,             Harris, J. £.,         Halstead,                Johnson. Jno. B.,
Harrington, D. W.,         Hall, Geo.P.,          Hardy,                   Johnston, Wm.,
Ilartwig, Marcell,         Herff, Adolph,         Helot,                   Jordan, R. M.,
Hawkins, Wm.13.,           Hale, S. E.,           Henriett,                Jamieson, Robt. A.,
Hayd, H. E..               Hincks, W. E.,         Hergott,                 Jenks, E. W.,
Heatb, W. H.,              Holliday, D. C.,       Holtz,                   Johnson. T. H.,
Xlinkel, F. W.,            Hunter, J. A.,         Hughes,                  Jones, Talbot,
Hopkins, H. R.,            Harris, W. John,       Huilet,                  Jones, W. A.,
Hubbcll,
  ubbc" A. A.,             Hawley, Tbos. S.,      Ishara, Jno. B.,    Johnson, Robley D.»
Hill, F. Elmer,            Heideman, Jno. H.,     Ives, Frank L.,     Johnston, J. O.,
Hart, Ira J.,              Hughes, C. H.,         Irish, L. Barstow,  Jones, C. N. D.,
Hawkes, W. W.,             Hulbert, G. F.,        Ingraham, Henry D., Joal,
Ilotclikiss, W. II.,       Hurt. G.,              Irish, J. C.,            Jaillet,
Hughes, O. J. D.,          Hinchey, W. D.,        Ingalls, P. H.,          Joly,
Hubbard, Robt.,            Holland, Wm.,          Ives, R. S.,             Kakeles, M. S.,
Hammond. S. P.,            Xlartwell, H. W.,       Iglehart, J. D.,        Kantrovitz, Adolph,
Harding. E. M.,            Hereford, H. F.,        lliff, J. P.,           Katzenbach, W. H.,
Xlarris, Francis A.,       Hardman, W. B.,         Isett, F. S.,           Katzenmeyer. G.,
Hooper, F. H..             Henderson, P. K.,       Ivins, H. F.,           Keane, Tliad. J.,
Hubbard. R. P.,        *   llaight, Vincent,       Iglehart, O. S.,        Kelly, Thos.,
Hersey, F. C.,             Hale, A. B.,            Ingalls, E. Fletcher,   Kemp, Wm. M.,
Hall, Robt.,       Hale,E. M-.,         Isham, Ralph N.,                   Kennedy, John T.,
llasbrouck, Sayer, Hammond,J. D.,       Isham, A. B.,                      Kimball, R. B.,
Hill, L. S.,       Harper, J. E.,       Irwin, J. D.,                      King, W. H.,
Henriques, P.,     Harrison, Wallace K,,Ingram, Julia,                     Knight, Chas. H.,
Hutchinson, Wm.F., Hawley, Geo. F.,     Ireland, J. A.,                    Knight, E.,
Hicks, Robt. H.,           Hedges. S. P.,          Irvvin, J. W.,          Kohn, S.,
Hall, A. Douglass,         Helm, Scott,            Imrie, Andrew,          Kolb. H.,
Hallman, Jno. S.,          Henderson, N. H.,       Inglis, David,          Krollpfeiffer. H.,
Hamill, R. H..             Hobart, II. M.,         Ingersoll, Luthur J.,   Kessler, Adolph,
Hampton,John T.,           Hollister, Elmer L.,    Janinski, Jno. P.,      King, D. F.,
Hancock. Jos.,             Holmboe, A.,            Jan\Tin, J. E.,         Kost, Henry,
Hansell, H. T.,            Xloward, Wm.A.,         Johnston, Chas. G.,     Keane, Jas. J.,
Hawley, B. F.,             Hunt, G. C.,            Jones, Israel C.,       Ketcham, Ge»». F.,
Hay, Thomas,               Hunter, Robt.,          Joyce, A. T.,           Kuhn, Geo. R.,
Healy, Jno. J.,            Hutchins, John W.,      Jacobson, David,        Knight, E. H.,
Hearn, W.J.,               Hyde, Jas. Nevins,      Jane way, T. T.,        Keatiiigs, HarietteC.,
Heintze, Chas. A.,         Haven. O. E.,           Jennings, W. H.,        Korn, Abraham,
Hirsh, A. B.,              Hanna, I. W.,           Joerg, Oswald,          Koethe, Hugo,
Ilornor, Caleb W.,         Hageman, S. 11.,        Johnson, Chas. H.,      Kinne, Geo. R.,
Horwitz, Orville,          Haight, Jno. B.,        Johnston, C. L.,        Kinne, Arthur B.,
Hughes, Isaac W.,          Haines, W. D.,          Jewett, T. A.,          Keane, J. W..
Hughes, Domiel,            Hawley, H. W.,          Jones, Jonas,           Keilogg, E. W.,
Hunter, S. W.,             Hera, C. P.,            Jones, S. Case,         Kenyoii, G. H.,
Harding, J. L.,            Holmes, C. R.,          Jackson, I). P.,        King, S. H.,
Hoffmann, H. H.,           Howard, Elmira Y.,      Johnson, M. M.,         Knight, E. B.,
Haworth, E. B.,            Hyndman, Jas. G.,       Judson, W.,             Knight, H. S.,
Hagenbaugh, P. H.,         Harvey. T. B.,          Jelly, Geo. F.,         Koplitz, Jno.,
Harrah, W. S.,              Hays, W. Franklin,     Johnson, Frank M.,      Keilogg, E. B.,
                            Henderson, Davis,      Johnson, Jno. W.,       Kimball, L. M.,
Higgate, W. O.,                                                            Kohr, T. W.,
Haines, Eleanor,            Hunter, J. B.,         Jones, C. M.,
                            Huiton, R. 0.,         Jordan, C. A.,          Kennedy, C.!M.,
Haydon, Joseph H.,                                 Jones, Alfred,          Kingsbiiry, Chas. L.,
Hitchcock,"W. E.,           Hake, Wm.F.,
                            Hess, G. A.,           Jurist, Louis,          Keating, J. !M.,
Holden, Edgar,                                                             Kilduffe, Robt.,
Harlan, H.,                 Hance, S. F.,          Jacoby, G. T.,
                            Hatch, P. L.,          Jack, Wm.,              Kirkpatrick, A. B.
Hammond,J. R.,                                                             Kirkpatrick, M. B.,
Hammond, M.,                Hayes, Louisa M.,      Johnson, W. N.,
                            Hlgbee, A. E.,         Johnson, J. C.,         Kitchen,J.,
Hartman, J. H.,                                                            Kniffen, J. B.,
Hill, N. F.,                Hunter, C. H.,         Janeway. T. L.,
Iloopman, S. V.,            Hall, L.,   ^          Jones, C. H.,           Keating, Wm. V.
                            Hand, D. W.,           Johnston. Samuel,       Kevin. R. O.,
 Houck, J. W.,                                                             Kerr, B.,
Hagner, D. R.,              Houpt, C. H.,          Johnson, J. B.,
                            llovt. H. F.,          Johnston, W. W.,        Kirker. J.,
Hammond, T. V.,                                                             Kneass, N. W.,
Ilawkes, Wm. H.,            Hutchinson, Hy.,       Jones, Kennedy,
                            Hart. Henry II.,       Jordan, M. IL,           King, E. F.,
 Hickling, I). P.,                                                          King, W R.,
                            Healy, J. H.,          Jackson, A. Reeves,
 Hood. T. B.,                                                               Kinh^cb. R. A.,
                            Hewston, Geo.,         Johnson, II. A.,
 Hyatt, Frank,                                     Jones, R. W.,            Knight. H.
 Hughes, M. J.,             llodgon, W. H. A.,                              Kennel. A. C.,
                            Hunter, Jas. A.,       Johnson, A. W.,
 HufFard. R. D.,                                                            Kuyk. D. A.,
 linger, W. H.,             Harmon, R.,            Jones, J. D.,
                            Iluckin, Payson T.,    Jones, S. Newton,        King, J. W.,
 Howe.Geo.,                                        Judkhis, David,          Kingsley. B. F.,
 Ilobbs, A. G.,             Hawkins. Thos. H.,
                            Hughes,T. A.,          Jungblutz, M.,           Keltz, Gustav,
 Harris, R. R.,                                                             Knox. R. L.,
 Houstoun, J. P.,           llipolite, W. W.,      Jameson, P. IL,
                            Hunt, M. O. A.,        Jameson, Hy.,            Kelly, C. W.,
 Hitt, V. G.,
                                           74 —

Kelly, R. J..         Lange, C. C.,       Letellier,          Mumford, E. S.,
Kennedy. J. B.,       Lemmer, J. C.,      Levi,               Mandeville, F. A.,
Kirker, G. A.,        Livengood,Theo. F., Le Beutu,           Mulligan, Ed. W.,
Kitchen, j. M.,       Lee, W. H. C.,      Le Guyede Sagrais, Martin, T. J..
Kalkhoff, A. F.,      Lampson, Henry R., Le Roy de Mericourt. Maycock, B. J.,
King, J, B. S.,       Latimer, T. S.,     Le Marchant,        Mickle, Herbert,
Kippax, J. R.,       Lee. Wm.,              Libermann,            Macfie. James,
Korsell, C. F.,      Lintbicum, J. G.,      Littre,               McNeil, R.,
Krusemarck, Chas., Lynch, Jno. S.,          Lippert,              Mackie. Wm. B.,
Kuh,E. J.,           Lippincott, E.,        Lowe,                 Marcy, H. O.,
Klein, C. H. Von,    Leffingwell, H. S.,    Lowenberg,            Martin, F. C..
Kebler, Fred.,       Lichty, Baniel.        Lutaud,               ^IcMichael, W. B.,
Keller, Jno.,        Lackersteen, M. H.,                          Mixter, S. J.,
Kortbein, Louisa A.. Leavitt, Sheldon,      Macdonald, A. E.,     Morse, H. L.,
Kelley, W. I.,       Lodor, Chas. H.,       Maquire, Philip J.,   Moore, S. L.,
Kalin, G. L.,        Lydston, G. Frank,     Malleson, P. A. O.,   Mott, J. v.,
Kirkley, C. A.,      Lyman, Henry M.,     Manning, F. O.,         Mitivier, M. M.,
Kinsman, B. K,        Lyon, J. Harvey.    May, Calvin S.,         Millar, R.,
Keam, A. P.,          Lowry, Harvey T.,   ISIayer, Abraham,       Mitchell, J. W.,
Kissin, Elias,        Luff, Thos. R.,     Maynard, A. W.,        Munro, W. L.,
Knox, S. B. P.,       Lyle, B. F.,        McCreery, Jno. A.,     Mathews, Adrian,
Kimball, J. H.,       Leick, G. F.,       McGuire, Geo. IL,       MacCoy, Alex. W.,
 Karges, C.,          Lang, Otto,         McLaury, Wm. M., Macfarlan, Malcome,
 Kohler,              Leonard, C. Henri,  Meunen, Jno. H.,        McCausland, J.,
 Klein,               Lodge, Albert,      Merres, Wm.P.,          ^IcClellaiid, Cochran,
 Lang, Chas. L.,      Laton, Winfield S.,  Meyer, Alfred,          JlcCollin, S. Mason,
 Lay, Jas. C.,        Lewis, J. Meriitt,  Meyer, Fred. W.,        McClure, W. W.,
 Learning, Jos. R.,   Lee, Wm.,           Milbank, RolDt.,        McBowell, S. B.,
 Lee, Chas. Carroll,  Lincoln, N. S.,     Millard, Henry B.,      McElroy, B. F.,
 Lee, Jas.,           Langhom, B. A.,     Milne, Chas.,           McEwen, J. W.,
 Lees, Thos. M.,      Lathan, Geo. T.,     Moffat, Edgar v.,      McLean, H. B.,
 Leo, S. Newton,      Lassiter, B. W.,    Moore, Wm. Oliver, Martin, H. Noah,
 Leon, A. M.,         Leigh, H. G.,       Morgan, Geo. E.,        Martin, J.,
 Leszynsky, Wm.:M., Leech, G. A.,         Morrill, J. L.,         l^Iassey, G. Betton,
 Lewis, Baniel,       Lilly, H. W.,       Morris, Robt. S.,       Messer, Geo. F.,
Lindsey, B. Abbott, Lamphear, S. Emory, 3Iorris, S. F.,           Mercur,   John B.,
 Lincoln, R. p.,      Lewis, E. R.,       Morrow, Prince A., Milliken, F. H,,
Lindsay, W. T.,       Lacey, Jno. H.,     ISIorse, Samuel S.,     Miller, J. S.,
 Little, Albert E.,   Laidley, L. H.,     Morse, Wm. II.,         Millick, J. W.,
Lockwood, Chas. E., Lemen, J. R.,         Morton, Wm. Jas.,       ^lontgomery, E. E.,
Loewenthal. Herman, Love, I. N.,          Mossman, N. A.,         Morton, Thos. G.,
Loomis, Alfred L.,    Lanneau, Chas. B.,  Mott, Alex. B.,         Mount, F. B.,
Lusk. Wm. T.,         Lebby, B. M.,       Mourraille, Gustave, ]\Iusser, J. H.,
Lybolt, Archibald,   Lockwood, S. L.,     Mulford, S. S.,         Muehleck, Geo. A.,
Lynch, P. J.,         Lincoln, F. T.,     l^Iurray, Robt. A.,     McCarrell, J. R.,
Lyster, Baniel J.,   Lanng, O. R.,        Muzzy, A. T.,           IMcCreary, R. J.,
Lorenze, Edw. J.,    Loeber, F.,          Myles, Robt. C.,        JlcCielland, J. II.,
Lee, Chas. M.,       Logan, Samuel,       Morris, Moreau,         McBoiiald, Frank,
Lamadrid, J. J.,     Larrabee, J. H.,     Mai'cy, T. Knowlton, Meisenhelder, E. W.,
Lester, Jno. C.,     Lawrence, Anna,      Mortimer, W. G.,        JlcCleary, Jas. P.,
Lewis, Edwin A.,     Leachmaii, W. T.,    Macfarlano, E.,         Mecray, Alex. M.,
Little, Wm. A.,      Lilienthal, J. E.,   Meek, Jas. A.,          McBowell, W. J.,
Loughran, Thos.,     Lord, Franklin F.,   Mcllroy, S. H.,         Mandeville, F. B.,
Lung,J. B.,          Liliencrantz, Aug.,  Miller, Theo. B.,       Meeker, G.,
La Moure, U. B.,     Lemen, li. E.,       Moak, C. H.,            Meicer, A.,
Lilienthal, Henry,   Levy, Robt.,         McKew, Jno.,            McCaw, J. B.,
Little, Bavid,       Lawrence, G. W.,     Meding, ff. B.,         ;McGuire, Hunter,
Lewis, Geo. W.,      Lenow, J. H.,        iMacBonald, Carlos F.,, Moore, Thos. J.,
Lyons, A. W.,        Limerick, S. B.,     MacEvitt, Jno. C.,      Moseley, E. J.,
Lamson, Jno. A.,     Lauder, Robt.,       iMaddren, Wm.,          Moorehouse, E. W ,
Leonard, H. F.,      Laflfont,            Mann, Ed. C.,           Memminger,      Allan,
Lowe, F. M.,         Lepine,              Matbeson, A. Ross, Meyer, C. L.,
Ludwig, Gardner,     Laborde,             Matson, ■V\^ B.,        Michel,  Middleton,
Ladd, Horace,        Labus, Ch.,          McGay, J. Touug,        IMoore, K. P.,
Lancaster, Thos.,    Labbee, E.,          McManus, Jas.,          Mitchell, Neal,
Latta, Samuel W.,    Landowski,           Mealia, E. J.,          Mackenzie, E. E.,
Leach, A. L.,                             Merritt, Jno.,
Leaman, Iv.,
                     Laudrin,                                     Mackenzie, J. N.,
                     Larrey,
Long, Howard W., Lambrou,                 Metcalf,  J. W.,        Martin,  J. L.,
                                          Miner, Edwin,           IMathieu, C. F.,
Longstreth, Morris, Laudolt,              Moore, Wm.,             McBevltt,   E. I?.,
Loughlin, D. J.,     !Martin-Lauzer,      Myerle, Bavid,          McSheny, H. Clinton,
Luther, F. M.,       Laville,
Lessing, Ferdinand, Legars,               Milbank,   W. E.,       Merrick,   S. K.,
                                          Mosher, C. B.,          I\lichael, J. E.,
Langrehr, H.,        Ledru.               Mereness,  H.  E.,      Morawetz,     L. F.,
Long, A. A.,                              McChesney, Jas.,
Livesay, Abraham,
                     Lenoel,                                      iMo.seley, Wm. E.,
                      Lecaudey,             Mugee, C. M.,         Moyer, F. G.
                                             <0


Murdock, Thos. F.,    McCord, Eugene W., Niepce,                   Paddock, Lewis S.,
McLouffhlin. J. W.,   Metcalf. G. R.,        Notta,                Page, F. W.,
Matthews, W.,         Miller, Chas. T.,      O'Meagher, Wm.,      Page, P. W.,
Melvin, M. B.,        Mc^VIurdy, Robt. S.,   Ostrom, Homer I.,    Parker, Chas. F.,
Morgan, Dudley,       !Muck^% Floyd S.,      Olcott, Cornelius,   Parks, J. Wil>on,
Morgan, E. Carroll,   Mahaffey, Albert L.,   Olmstead, Samuel H., Pattee, Asa F.,
Morgan, J. E.,        Moliere, J. W.,        Ostrander, Geo. A., Payne,G. H.,
JIuncaster. O. M.,    Macomber, H. K.,       Olmstead, C. G.,      Pearson, Mary M.,
Maddox. W. J.,        Inlays, W. H.,         O'Brien, E. 0. W.,    Pigeon, J. C. D.,
Mandevllle, W. R.,    McClelland, W. F.,     Osborne, N.,          Paddock, F. K.,
McCutchon, P. B.,     Morris, N. K.,         O.sborn, M. D.,       Potter, T. G.,
Morton, E. J.,        !Mackenzie, Morell,    Oulman, A.,           Pratt, Lester M.,
Mayer, 0. R.,         Marcel, Gaston,        O'Leary, C.,          Padeira..Geo. W.,
Marrero, P, G.,       JIasd,                 Ogier, W. G.,         Perry, S. H.,
Martin, T. A.,        Maurin,                Ogier, T. L.,         Proctor, J. C.,
May, Wm. B..          Masse,                 O'Brien, F. H.,       Phillips, J. S.,
McKeage, J. M.,       Maturie,               Olinsted, Jno. C.,    Park, Roswell,
JlcPheeters, W. M.,   MacGavin,              O'Reilly, P. S.,      Phelps, Wm. C.,
Miller, A. J.,        MafFei,                Outley, F. T.,        Porter, Jas.,
Miller, John,         Marchal,               Orendorf, Hy.,        Potter, \\^ W.^
Morgan, W. B.,        Marchand,              Ogden, E. P.,         Parker, Jason,
Closes. G. A.,        Martin, A.,            Ogden, M. D.,         Pilgrim, Chas. W.,
Mulhall, J. 0..       Marnata,               Osgood, Hamilton,     Page, J. R.,
^Murray, M. C.,       Magnin, -              Otis, Edw. O.,        Patterson, J. H.,
Medlin, P. A.,        Metaxas,               O'Daniel, A. A.,      Peai'son, F. W.,
Mclntyre, Jno. H.,    Millard,               O'Hara, Michel,       Powell, A. F. H..^
Martin, S. C.,        Miot, •                O'Neill,J. J.,        Prichard, J. E.,
McOlintock, T. R.,    Faure-Miller.          O'Neill, J. Wilds.    Palmer, G. S.,
Minor, W. E.,         Moriez,                O'Keefe, S. C.,       Pape, W. B.,
Mitchell, Eliza,     Moricourt,              Opie, Thos.,          Patton, G. Farrar,
Murphy, J. Redfield, 3\Ioser,                Owings,H. W.,         Parra, H. A.,
Montmollin, Jas. M., Moreno-Y-Mais,          Ogle. Geo. C.,        Paist, H. C.,
Mathews, J. M.,      Moriu-Herbland,         O'Brien, J. N.,       Pancoast, Wm.H.,
McDermott, T. L.,     Moure,                 OiT, Geo. B.,         Pardee, H. A.,
Meriwether, E. Ed.,   Moutard-Martin, •      Osborne, Mary E.,     Parish, Wm. H.,
Miller, Wm. F.,       Massei,                Orwig, G. A.,         Parker, G. L.,
Mills, Sam'l B.,      Mottendorf,            Oster, L. W.,         Partenheimer,Jno.R.,
Monroe, A. L.,        Mussy, Gueneaude,      Owen, F. W.,          Patterson, J. V.,
iMontgomery, E. R.,   Nammack, Chas. E., Owen, Orville W.,         Perry, H. M.,
Marshall, Ewing,      Nesbitt, Jno. H.,      Owens, Jay,           Porter, Wm. G.,
Maddin, Thos. L.,     I^ewman, Robt.,        Orme, H. y.,          Posey, L.,
McMurray, W.J.,       News, Annie,           Obiner,               Potsdamer, Y. B.,
Morrison, A.,         Nivison, N.,           Odin, Marius,         Patterson, T. J.,
Minor, J. L.,         Nolden, C. A.,         Onimus,               Pitcairn, R. V.,
:MacArthur, R. D.,    Nortbrup, M'm. P.,     Ozanam,               Pennepacker. H.,
Marguerat, G.,        Nolan, John P.,        Oilier,               Petrie, R. M.,
Marshall, Jno. S.,    Noll, Jos. J.,         Oger,                 Parrish, J.,
Martin, F. H.,        Newland, T. H.,        Paige, H. W.,         Piniieo, J. O.,
Maynard, Wm. J.,      Nascher, I. L.,        Page, R. C. M.,       Patterson, H.,
McArtbur, L. L.,      Nehrbas, J.,           Palmer, Edm. J.,      Pyle, J. P.,
McGowan,J. D.,        North, N. L.,          Peck, Ed. S.,         Pindell, Wm.Nich.,
Mitchell, J. S.,      Newton, A. W.K.,       Peterson, Fred.,      Pythian, C. T.,
Montgomery, L. H., Newton, Eleanor,          Pfeiffer, Jos.,       Parsons, Kate,
Montgomery,W.A.D,, Noyes, R. K.,             Phillips, C. E.,    Powell, H. H.,
Morgan, W. E.,     Newman, H. M.,            Pierrepout, Wm. A., Phinney, Geo. W.,
McDermott, G. C.,     Nichols, E. H.,        Finkney, Wra. H.,     Parmelee, N. H.,
Marcus, J. 0.,        Neely, E. A.,          Pope, Alex B.,        Pooley, J. H.,
Marcus, J. E.,        Newman. Hy. P.,        Porter, P. B.,        PfafP, O. G.,
McDowell, W. G.,      Novak, Frank J.,       Porter, Wm. H.,       Pink, Herman,
Miles, A. J.,         Norton, 0. D.,         Powell, Seneca D.,    Poole, W. H.,
Minor, T. C.,         Newhall, T. K.,        Pramann, A.,          Polglase, Wm.A.,
Mitchell, Giles S.,   Noyes, R. P.,          Purcell, Wm. J.,      Porter, Phil.,
Moirell, Chas. B.,    Neilson, Thos. R.,     Phillips,David,       Pratt, Chas.,
Molt, Irvine K.,      Neidhard, C.,          Pilcher, Jas. E.,     Pope, Horace E.,
Molley, Jno. J.,      Nash, Jos. D.,         Pfeiffer, A. G.,      Patterson, C. E.,
Muscroft, S. S.,      Negendank, A.,         Peacocke, J. M.,      Partridge, Chas. 0.»
Melchers, Edw.,       Neale, L. E.,          Pearce, E. F.,        Palmer, L. K.,
Miles, 0. H.,         Norris, J. D.,         Peck, A. E.,          Papin, T. L.,
Manker, F. E.,        Norwood, V. L.,        Pennoyer, Jas.,       Parrish, J. G.,
Maxwell. Allison,     Norris, W. H.,         Perry, G. B.,         Porter, Wm.,
Maclean, Donald,      Nelson, J. C.,         Pierrson, H. J.,      Potter, Oscar,
Marden, P. A.,        Nelson, Petrus,        Pratt, Wm.H. B.,      Palmer, E. R.,
Merville, H. P.,      Nadeau, J. H.,         Prendergast, John,    Peters, H. W.,
MacDonald, A.,        Nitard,                Preston, H. G.,       Porter, R. H.,
MacNamara, Jno. G., Niemann,                 Porter, Wm.,Jr.,      Pusey, II. M.,
Marchaud, P.,     ■ Nichols, A.,             Peltier, Pierre D.,   Patterson, C. W.,
                                            — 76

 Palmer, T. D.,        Ruppaner, A.,          Ricketts,B. M.,       Shaw,John 0.,
 Parsons, G. P.,       Richardson, W.H.,      Rose, Hennan,         Sherwell, Samuel,
 Pearson, N.P.,        Reynolds, S. M.,       Rosenwasser, M.,      Simmon.^ D.,
 Pettyjohn, Elmore S., Raub, Jos. M.,         Rowsey, W. T.,        Skene, Alex. J. 0.,
 Pierce, Norvai H.,    Read, Henry N.,        Roseberry, J. A.,     St. Clair, R. W.,
 Pynchon,Edwin,        Richardson, J. E.,     Robertson, J. W.,     Stiles, S. E.,
 Pool, D.,             Rockwell, F. W.,       Richards, Samuel D., Strattoii, W.E.,
 Pugsley, Edm. H.,     Rooney, Alex. J.,      Riopel, E. E.,       Siuart, F. H.,
 Pearce, T. J.,        RousseaUj Z..          Ray, J. W.,          Sullivan, J. D.,
 Plneo, W. B.,         Rivard, Pierre E.,     Rainey, T. G.,       Swalm,Wm.F.,
 Perrault, J.,         Roe, Jno. O.,         Roberts, G. F.,        Schouey, L.,
 Prosek, Jos. A.,      Robinson, H., Sr.,    Raynor, W. C.,         Sizer, N. B.,
 Pinkerton, T, H.,     Robinson, H., Jr.,    Rogers, Nathan,        Skillicorn. Jno. H.,
 Prevost, A. L.,       Robinson, H. H.,      Reed. W. E.,           Southwork, J. B.,
 Philbrook, E. B.,     Root. J. E.,          Itadebaugh, J. M.,    Steenberg, B. U.,
 Parker, C. M.,        Robinson, A. B.,      Russell, A, J.,       Stillman, W. O.,
 Pfeiffer, O. J.,      Richardson, Frank E., Rothwell, E. J.,      Simmons, Arthur R.,
 Peabody, Jas. H.,     Reed, Andrew F.,      Rothwell.P. D.,       Sheldon, J. W.,
 Pidgin, Lucy S.,      Roberts. O. S.,        Rosenthai, Chas. H., Spencer. C. D.,
 Pyle, Benjamin,       Rankin, Francis H.,    Rabuteau,            Seeley, W. W.,
 Pietra-Santa, De,     Reed, Boardman,        Raymond,             Soble, N. W.,
 Paget,                Rae, W.,               Ricord,
 Panas,                                                            Spencer, Thos. D.,
                       Read, J. W.,           Ri6g6,
 Passant,              Ricord, Ph.,           Rampol,
                                                                   Stockschlaeder,Peter,
 Perier,                                                           Streeter, H. W.,
                       Reinhart, D. J.,       Roustan,             Sumner, Chas.,
 Petit,                Reuling, Gee.,         Rousselin,           Slacer, \V. H.,
 Percepied,            Reynolds, G. B.,       Rigolet,             Smith, Ed. T.,
 Pittiferrandi,        Rusk, G. G.,           Rouquette,            Storck, E.,
 Pean,                 Robertson, W."W.,      Rondot,               Saious, Chas. E.,
 Pdnoyee,              Radcliffe, S. J.,      Robin, Ch.,           Salinger, Julius S.,
Perree,                Robbins, H. A.,        Royer,                Santee, E. I.,
Pfeiifer,              Roberts, W.E.,         Sanders, C. W.,       Sargent, J. H.,
Piecliaud.             Raub, J. A.,         Satterthwaite, T. E., Schott, A.,
Pietri,                Reed, A. Graham,     Schley, J. M..
Piogey,                                                           Schoales, C. B.,
                       Reed, Carl H.,       Schoonmaker, P.,      Schoales. J. D.,
Pioger,                Regar, Horace K.,    Schoonover, P.,
Penot,                                                            Seltzer, Chas. M.,
                       Rex, G. A.,          Schweig, Henry,       Sheets, Jno.,
Pen^iez,               Rex, Oliver P.,      Seaman, Louis L.,     Sherburne, Samuel,
Paul Constantin,       Reynolds, A. Sidney, Segnitz, B.,
Plateau,                                                          Skinner, Henry,
                       Risley, Samuel D.,   Shaw, H. B.,          Smedley, I. G.,
Ponafax,               Ritter, N. H.,       Shrady, Gco. F.,
Potain,                                                           Smith, A. D.,
                       Roberts, A. Sidney, Shufelt, W. A.,        Smith, G. W.,
Poyet,                 Robins, R. P.,       Small, Jno. W.,       Smith, H. A.,
Prengrueber,           Roussell, A. E.,     Smith, Daniel H.,     Sommerville,Jas. M.,
Peuleve,               Rudderow, B. J.,     Smith, O. G.,         Stenger, C. F.,
Pupier,                Robinson. Wm.D.,     Smith, Sam'l Wesley, Steiiibach, L. W.,
Puy-le-BIanc,          Ramsey, J. S.,         Spann. J. H.,         Stewart, 11.,
Quinn, J. A.,          Rex, T. A.,            Spannnake, Louis,
Quimby. Thos. P.,                                                   Stewart, R. R.,
                       Roland, Oliver,        Spragne, Homer B.,    Stewart, W. S.,
Hamsdell, E. Bcnj.,    Ross, Geo..            Steams, Henry S.,     Stubbs, G. E.,
Ranney, A. L.,         Riddell, Thos. J.,     Steers, Thos. H.,     Starr, Louis,
Ranney, Jas. W.,       Ravenel, E.,           Steinach, A.,         Somerville, J. H.,
Ransom, G. M.,         Ravenel, W. C.,        Stevens, Wm.,         Stretch, R. G.,
Raphael, Hy.,          Rhett, R. B., Jr..     Stewart, Robt.,       Seip, C. P.,
Rapp, Samuel,          Roberts, J. Deenng, Stoeckel, G. M.,         Sutton, R. S.,
Rassnian, W. H.,       Read, J. B.,           Stow,T. Dwight,       Sterley, J. B.,
Read, Ira B.,          Roberts, D. J.,        Stronach, J. Watson, Shafer, A. P. H.,
Reid, A. Y.,           Roaldes, de F.,        Sturgis, Fred. R.,   Stewart, Samuel S.,
Reilly, Jas. F.,       Ritter, C. A.,       Stutzer, Emii T.,        Sibbett, P. Lowry,
Reinhard, H.,          Runnels, Moses,      Swan, A. T.,             Sanford, L. d..
Reisig, Richard,      Ramming, J.,          Stuyvesant,   F. Morris, Skiff, P. a.
Rickaby, Hamilton, Riesmeyer, L. T.,        Swasey, Jno. H.,         Smith, M.,
Rice, Clarence C.,     Reinme, Chas. T.,    Swift, Wm. J.,           Stetson,  J. E.,
Richard, Montrose R., Robinson, A. C.,      Sanders, J. A.,          Smith, O. C.,
Robb, Samuel W.,       Reynolds, Dudley S., Smith, Roswell D.,
Roberts, Milt. Josiah, Ritter, H. B.,                                Shepherd,   Gco. R.,
Roberts, N. S.,                             Sewali, S. C.,           Sanders, O. B.,
                       Itandidph, Robt.,    Skiff, Geo. V.,          Scofield, C.  S.,
Robertson, T. S.,      Reading, E. M.,      Seltzer, I. M.,          Small, Herbert E.,
Robinson, Beverly,     Rhodes, Jno. Edwin, Schloss, A. S.,           Starbird, I. W.,
Robinson, Wni. G.,     Robison, J. A.,      Spitzer, H.,
Rogers, Oscar H.,                                                    Stedman, Geo.,
                       Robinson, Wm.,       Schultz, R. C.,          Smith, W. E.,
Rogers, Willard II., Ross. Jos. P.,         Santoire, S. L.,         Smith, E. B.,
lioof, Stephen W.,     Rinedollar, N.,      Schenck, P. L.,
liose, Acliille.s,                                                   Smith, S., Jr.,
                       RansohofF, Jos.,     Schlitz, F. A.,          Swarts, Gardner P.,
Roth, W. Chas.,        Ravolgi, A.,         Schroeder, Wm.,
Rupp, Adolph,                                                        Shank, P. S.,
                       Reed, C. A. L.,      Searle, Wm. S.,          Smith, Edward 0.,
                                            — 77

 Schley, C. C.,         Stillson,Jos. O.,      Taylor, Wm.T.,        Vose, E. F.,
 Sabal, B. F.,          Sawyer, H. C.,         Thatcher, J. W.,      Van Beusen, Ed. H.,
 Stollenwerck, P. J.,   Simpson, Jas.,         Thomas, A. R.,        Van Lennep, W.B.,
 ymitb» I). E.,          Storrer, Jas.,        Tiedeman,H.,          Varick, Theo. R.,
 Shannon, T. G.,        Swan,Benj. R.,         Turnbull, Chas. S.,   Varick, W, W.,
 Sim, F. L.,            Skilling, 1)..        Treacy, J. P.,         Vance, R. A.,
 Sle^'ht, B. H.»        Simonton, W. B.,      Townsend,E. P.,        Viets, B. B.,
 Schiireman, A. J.,     Shirk, A.,             Terrill, Thos.,       Van Seltzer, S.,
 Sadtler, Chas. E.,     Szigethy, Be C. A      Thompson. H. M.,      \'<\n Slyke, F. W.
 Saxton, A. H.,         Solley, S.,            Tuholske, II.,        Van Slyck, B. B.,
 Scarff, J. H.,         Strickler, \V. M.,    Thornton, Theo. W.,    Von Aureso,
 Sellman, W. A. B.,     Summer, Jno. E., Jr., Thompson,J. M..        Venet,
 Shannon, Geo, C.,      Standart, A. C.,      Taylor. R. H.,         Varda,
 Shearer, Thos. L.,     Shelton, G. A.,       Tabor, F. S.,          Vou Aurep,
 Stark, 11.,            Scaglia,              Thomson. G. A„         Villeneuve
 Stenart, J. A.,        See, Germain,         Tomboecken, H.,        Vinirass,
 Spear, II. T.,         Saint Germain, de,    Tobias, G. Jackson,    Vincent,
 Slioulters, Geo. H.    Seux,                 Thompson, J. H.,       Valcourt, de,
 Sliute, D. K.,       Sichel,                 Trudgeon, W.,          Wagner, Clinton,
 Smith, T. C.,        Serraud, R.,            Taiiber, B.,           Waldo, Ralph,
 Sonnenschmidt,C.W., Simon, G.,               Taylor, Longstreet,    Walker, Wm. A.,
 Sowers, Z.T.,        Souligoux,              Taylor, W.11.,           allaee, Wm.B.,
 Swormstedt,L. B.,    Roux-Seignoret,         Tenney, W. A. R.,      Wallach, J. G.,
 Street, B. B.,       SchiMiff, .             Thorpe, Juliet M,,     Walsh, Walter J.,
 Seeley, T. P.,       Saint-Michel,           Thrasher, A. B.,        Ward, Jno. E.,
 Shenick, O. T.,      Sprimont,               Tnish, J.,              Ward, Whitfield,
 Sinclair, Chas. F.,  Salemi, F.,             Thompson, Chas. E..     Warner,Juo.W.,
 Saunier, A. J. C.,   Talbot, R. R.,          Thonier, Max,           Warren, Jno.,
 Smith, Chas. Gihnan, Talson, Geo. W.,        Thomas, W.B.,           Washburn,IV.,
 Smith, Wm.F.,          Tansley, J. O.,       Thorpe, S. L.,          Watts, Robt.,
 Stanley. W. A.,        Taylor, Robt.,         Thomas, P.             Weaber. Wm. H.,
 Steele, D. A. K.,      Taylor, Isaac,         Thorn, Samuel S.,      Weed, Edgar T.,
Steger. R. W.,          Taj'lor, Thos. C.,     Taylor, C. W.,        Welles, Chas. S.,
Stockton, F. O.,        Thomas, F. A.,         Taylor,R. W.,         Wendt, Edward,
Storey, C. A.,          Thomas,J. C.,         Thomson, B. B.,        West, Mary S.,
Snyder, A. F.,          Thompson, J. H.,      Tappev, E. T.,         Weston, Wm. H.,
Sattler, Eric E.,       Tinker, C. A.,        Thayer, C. E.,         Weylund, Louis,
ScheJl, F. H..          Titus, Ed. C.,        Titus, I. S.,          Weber, Leonard,
Schmidt, F. G.,         Traut, J. F.,         Tremaine, W. S.,
                        Trigg, Henry S„                              Weliman, W. J.,
Stevenson, Jno. W.,                           Tibbits, G. W.,        Wheeler, Juo. If,,
Sanders, J. Kent,       Tuttle, Jas. P.,      Taggart, J. P.,        White, Frank H.,
Smith, D. B.,           Tunier, J. R.,        Todd, W. S.,           White, J. Blake,
Somerville, Geo. H.,    Telfair, Wm. G.,      Tynberg, S.,           Whitney, A. B.,
Stone, Martha M.,       Turner, E. P.,        Thaon,                 Wiesnef, Daniel H.,
Sullivan, E. W.,        Ten Eyek, C. H.,;     Taberlet,              Wilcox, R. W.,
Sykora, Jos.,           Talmage, Samuel,      Troque,                Wilcox, Sidney P.,
Strong, J.,             Terhune, J. J.,       Teissier,              Wilson, Jno. H.,
Smith, C. N.,           Thompson, J. M.,      Tripier,               Williams, Fred. W.,
Seltzer, Van S.,        Ton-y, W. S.,         Terrillon,             Winters, Jos. E.,
Schuppert, W. E.,       Tucker, Chas. B.,     Theimes,               Wood bury, Ed. C.,
Souclion, Ed.,          Tuthill, Jas. Y.,     Trelat,                Woodcock, Allan,
Seydewitz, von Paul, Taber, J. Russell,       Trousseau,             Worster, W. Parker,
Snell, Jno. K.,         Thompson, E. L. R.    Turner,                Wylie, W. Gill,
Scott, J. M.,           Todd,W. S„            Tillaux,               Wynkoop. G. U.,
Schuricht, 6. S.,       Thayer, C. P.,        Toland, C. G.,         Wyler, E.,
Shore, Jno.,            Thayer, Bavid,        Upham, Geo. B.,        Wackerhagen, Geo.,
Smith, Elsworth F.,     Thompson, J. B.,      Ure, W.,               Walker, Jerome,
Stevens, J. M.,         Terry, H.,            linger, C.,            Welton, R. B..
Steer, Justin,          Traver, W. H.,        Upshur, J. N.,         West, PYaiik E.,
Smith, Q. C.,           Thayer, A. S.,        I'tley, J. H.,         Westbrook, Benj. F.,
Schooler, Lewis,        Thompson, Jno.,       A'alk, Francis,        Westbrook. Geo. IL,
Scott, W. Preston       Thomas, O. A.,        Vanderpoel, W.B.,      Wheeler, Ed. A.,
Smith,Eugene,           Totmaii, Baniel M.,   Vander Poel, S. O.,    White, G. R.,
Spalding, F. A.,        Tbroop, B. C.,        Van Valzah, W. W.,     Whitney, E. J.,
Spranger, M. J.,        Toble, E.,            Vedder, M. R.,         Wilber, A. A.,
Scheig, Elmer F.,       Tremaine, W. S.,      Vehslago, S. H.,       Ward,Samuel B.,
Slagle, 0. G.,          Tinsley, A.,          Vincent, Ludger C.,    Wright, Chas. P.,
Spaiilding, S. M.,      Taylor, L. M.,        Vosbiu'gh. Benj. F.,   Wilbor, Chas. W.,
Senkler, Albert E.,     Townsend, Smith,      Van llarlingen, J.,    Wilson. Benj.,
Shimoneck, A.,          Taylor, K. K.         Van Ness, Jno..        Walsh, Jno. J.,
Sohiberg. Oloff,        Tompkins,ChristopherVander Veer, A.,         Wetmore, S. W.,
Scollard, W. E.,        Taylor, Philip.    A'an Bibber, Claude, Wilson, A. B.,
Seribner, E. B.,        Taylor, B. W.,        Vandergriff, Jno. B., Wright. A. R.,
Simpson. G. F.,         Touatre, J.,          Van Allen, Jno. R.,   Wyckoff, C. C.,
Stucky, T.              Tait, Alex.,          Vaiighaii, R. A.,     Wales, Theron A.,
Satterwhite, T. P.,     Taylor, J. Madison    I'ance, Ap. Morgan, White, B. \V.,
                                                   — 78 —

         Wainwright,W.A. M., Wooster, W. R.,
         Wheelev, F. II.,
         ■\VashburD, Geo. H.,
         Webb, M. E.,
         Whitmore, A. S.,
         Whittier, E. A.,
                                Walrath, B. M.,
                                Walrath, II. S.,
                                Wheaton, C.
                                Whitcomb,
                                Wirth, C.,
                                                        Wathen, Wm. H.,
                                                        Wilson, Frank C.,
                                                        Woody, S. E.,
                                                        Williams, U. V.,
                                                        Wallace, D. R.,
                                                        Wilkes, W. H.,
                                                                              Wolhauptner, D. P.,
                                                                              Ward, J. W.,
                                                                              Wagner, Henry L.,
                                                                              Wooster, David,
                                                                              Wiinzer, Lucy M. F.,
                                                                              Wheeler, P. L.,
                                                                                                     1
        .Wilson, Geo. S.,
         Weber, F. O.,
         Wyman. S. E.,
                                Wenzel, Hy. P.,
                                Wiborg, S. P.,
                                Wadsworth, F. L.,
                                                        Wilkes, W. O.,
                                                        Watkins, J. L.,
                                                        Willctt, E. Miles,
                                                                              Webster. L. R.,
                                                                              Woodhill, A. H.,
                                                                              Winchester, R. F.,
                                                                                                     t
         Wentworth. \V. H.,     Westcott, CassiusD., Watkins, Claiboum,       Wade, J. K..           If:
         Walker, E. F.,         Weston, E. B.,       Wanstall, A.,            Walker, J. ^I.,
          Walker, J.B.,
          Warder, W. H.,
          Watson, A. W.,
                            '   Whidden, P.
                                          >. C.,
                                Wilborg, L. J.,
                                                        West, F.,
                                                        Wiegand, Wm. E.,
                                                                              Whitwell, Wm. S.,
                                                                              Warenbey,              'i
          Waugb, Wm. P.,
                                               ArvidH.., Welch, E. G.,
                                                        White, John W.,
                                                                              Wollaston,
                                                                              Wichereau,
                                                                                                     .'t
          Weed, Chas. L.,                               Whitehead, A.,        Wein,
          White, J. Wm.,        Wardner, II.,           Whitridge, "Wm.,      Wolff, Julien,
          Whitesicle, J. E.,    Watry, Jos.,            Wilkins, G. L,,       Wecker, L. do.
          Wilson, Chas. M.,     Watson, H.,             Wilson, R. T.,        Wolf, Morcau,
          Wilson, M. J.,        Wenning, W. H.,         Wise, E. M.,          Yarnall, J. H.,
          Williams, Horace,     Woodward, W. R.,        Woods, Hiram,         Young, F. J.,
          Williams, T. C.,      Wheeler, A. W.,         Wood, P. Bryson,      Yarrow, Thos. J.,
          Willits, Chas. __
                    ■ s. II.,   Wiesner, A. P.,         Worthington, T. C.,   Yeomans, G.,
          Willard, De P..       White, C. E.,           White, Walter W.,     Young, J. K.,
          Wirgman, Chas.,               U. J.,
                                Wilson, E,              White, Jos. A.,       Young, J T.,
          Wol'ford, W. S.,      Watts, Wm ,             Wile, Henry,          Yarrow, H. C.,
         Wolff, L.,             Woods, J. T.,           Weaver, Jno. D.,      Tandell, L. P.,
         Woodbui-y, Frank,      Wittenmyer, G. D.,      Winslow, W. H.,       Yandell, D. W.,
         Woods, D. P.,          Watkins, J. M.,         Woods, S.,            Younghusband, L.„
         Wagner, Theo. A-,      Weindahl, J. H.,        Wilson, C. A.,        Yarnall. M.,
         Woolen, G. V.,         Ware, C. A.,            Welchans, Geo. R.,    Zemansky, A. P,
         Walsh, C. A.,          Washington, Jno. N., Westhaeffer, H. E.,      Zellhoefer, Chas.,
         Warner, H. F.,         Wichman, II.,           White, F. McK.,       Zeh, C. M.,
         Webber, N. W.,         Williamson, J. Wm.,     Wilkinson, Geo.,      Zeisler, Jos.,
         Wyman, Hal C.          Walker, Thos. li.,      Waldman, Paul,        Zier, Edw. B.,
         Wheeler,
          (^nee   Prank D.,     Warner, G. M.,          Walsh, Ralph,         Zeller,
         Welsh, D. Emmett,      Weir, Jas.,             West, E. W.,          Zawerthal.




                                                                                                     i
U..
      .JmlLL   -.
        :




'<y -




                     ■"M
                          ■ ''M




                          'V ,
                          m




            ■ tllA-;xyu
m
    ,




  .V'




    'J -
il V*
"\f< ";




   fe'



   If
I'M'




    {jvVr
                 ,L.;          -i;


      • .! ■ ■ \- 1.. J.   ■'
                            • '■       . .;• ■ '•. .■ • ■;\V


                                                                                                          ! ';;   '




                                              /' ,"'




                                                                                            ■         ^    V' .^... (i'J




                                                                       ■'■'•(wSvr"
../




                                                                                                                              1
                                       '!' .               ■ ^ *' ,\ • ■   '■     '*'• »\ •*;»'
                           rv.;\ .                     ^                        ^v ■•'i.. ,
                           ' •■ ■■ .      V     ■.          ■ • .■   "' !•               . ,!'
                                                                             .1 . . ^ ■ '       '>.
                                                                             .• •) '   ' ! ' '' f




                                                                                                            )V        "'J;4
                           '




                                 *' 1

                             I )'
                  D;

                 *l ,
 * »   ^            1'» 'i * s
.• '^I . H*."*id
              M „:'i',fv-"ti|
           .1 xi j ,'i'ir}
                         t jpffl
           Vl*
