     DeSAbis.




Ml

O
r




    22101425098
  Digitized by the Internet Archive
                   in 2014




https ://arch ve org/detai Is/b20393040
           i   .
RINK
A LA MODE
        WORKS BY MRS. DE SALIS.
    'Those excellent cooker^' books that have made Mrs. De Salis
an authority in every kitchen that has any pretensions to high art.'
                                                            Scotsman.

SAVOURIES A LA MODE.                               Eleventh       Edition.
      Fcp. 8vo. IS. 6d. boards.

ENTREES A LA MODE.                        Seventh Edition.           Fcp.
     8vo. IS. 6d. boards.

SOUPS AND DRESSED FISH A LA MODE.
     Fourth Edition.     Fcp. 8vo.    is. 6d.   boards.

OYSTERS A LA MODE.                       Second Edition.             Fcp.
     8vo. IS. (id. boards.

CAKES AND CONFECTIONS A LA MODE.
     Second Edition.     Fcp. 8vo. is. 6d. boards.

SWEETS AND SUPPER DISHES A LA MODE.
     Third Edition.    Fcp. Bvo. i^. 6d. boards.

DRESSED VEGETABLES A LA MODE.                                     Second
     Edition.   Fcp. 8vo. is. 6d. boards.

DRESSED GAME AND POULTRY A LA MODE.
     Fcp. 8vo. IS. 6d. boards.

PUDDINGS AND PASTRY A LA MODE.                                      Third
     Edition.   Fcp. Bvo. i^'. 6d. boards.

TEMPTING DISHES FOR SMALL INCOMES.
     Third Edition.    Fcp. 8vo. is. 6d. boards.

FLORAL DECORATIONS A LA MODE                                  :   Sugges-
     tions and Desciiptions.      Fcp. 8vo. i^. 6d. boards.

DRINKS A LA MODE                  :   Cups and Drinks of every
     kind for every Season.       Fcp. Bvo. i^. 6d. boards.

WRINKLES           AND         NOTIONS               FOR          EVERY
     HOUSEHOLD.          Second Edition.         Fcp. Bvo. 2S. 6d. cloth.


      London:     LONGMANS, GREEN, & CO.
D R              I            N K
          A LA MODE

  CUPS AND DRINKS OF EVERY KIND
         FOR EVERY SEASON


                         BY

          MRS DE SALIS


                               '
                                   One sip
     Will bathe the drooping   spirit in clehght
                                   '
     Beyond the bliss of dreams




                 LONDON
LONGMANS, GREEN, AND                               CO.
  AND NEW YORK       :   15   EAST 16"^ STREET
                     1891


            All rights reserved
                             PRINTED BY
               SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-STREET SQUARE
                               LONDON




"WELLCOME INSTITUTE
 \       LIBRARY

Coll.   \welMOmec
Call


No.     mm
         169
         Vdjd
                   CONTENTS
                                                                                        PAGE
Cups of Various Kinds
American Drinks
Punch
                       ........     .       .       .       •   .       .       .   .      i


                                                                                          io
                                                                                          i8
Hot Drinks                                                                               26
Cooling Drinks                                                                           33
Beer Cups                                                                                39
Liqueurs
Syrups     ..........
Invalid Drinks                                                                  .   .
                                                                                         43
                                                                                         54
                                                                                         61
Tea, Coffee, and Cocoa                                                                   65
Wines and Spirits                                                                        71
   Manufacture of AVine         .       .       .           .       .       .       -71
   Age of Wine     .       .        .       .       .           .       .       .   .
                                                                                         74
   Blending of Wine    .        .       .       .           .       .       .
                                                                                    -75
   Care of Wine
   Fining Wine
                   .




                       ........
                           .        .       .       .           .       .       .   .    76
                                                                                         78
   Bottling Wine
   Decanting Wine
                   .




                       ........
                           .        .       .           .       .       .       •   •
                                                                                         79
                                                                                         79
   Icing Wine
   Warming Wine
                   .




                       ........
                           .        .       .       .           .       .       •   •
                                                                                         79
                                                                                         80


   Order of Serving Wine.......
   Terms used by Judges and Tasters                 .           .       .       .   .    80
                                                                                         81



                               APPENDIX
The Management of the Beer Cellar                                   .       .       .
                                                                                         93
Liquid Measures                                                                          94


INDEX                                                                                    97
    DRINKS A LA MODE.

     CUPS OF VARIOUS KINDS.
                   Badminton.
Place in a covered jug on ice a bottle of Beaune,
the rind of one orange, the juice of one, an ounce
of bruised candy, two or three sHces of cucumber,
a glass of curagoa, and a little balm and borage (a
sprig of verbena if in season or lemon-scented
geranium-leaf).    Keep in ice for an hour, then
pour in 'two bottles of soda water well iced.


                   Badminton.
                    Another Way.

   Take two bottles of soda water, one bottle of
claret, twelve lumps of sugar, one glassof sherry,
the peel and juice of a lemon, a grate of nutmeg,
chipped ice, and a sprig of borage.


                   Badminton.
                   Another Recipe.

   One bottle of claret, two glasses of sherry, one
of maraschino, a tablespoonful of castor sugar, a
                                             B
                  DRINKS A LA MODE
couple of sprigs of borage, a leaf of scented verbena
or a thin slice of cucumber ice it well and just
                                    ;



before drinking pour in a bottle of iced soda water.


                   Badminton (Oxford).
   Take one bottle of soda water, one of lemonade,
one of claret, one glass of brandy, half a lemon
floating in it, the peel of the other half put in, with
borage and ice, twelve lumps of sugar.


                      Burgundy Cup.
       Take   a   bottle   of   sparkling       Burgundy,   one
bottle of chablis, a liqueur glassful of Chartreuse,
a slice of cucumber, two bottles of Salutaris water,
and a tumblerful of shaven ice       then imbed in
                                            ;



ice;


                      Burgundy Cup.
                           Another Way.

   A bottle of Beaune, the strained juice of one
lemon, sugar to taste, a liqueur glass of Ktimmel,
two bottles of soda water, and some lumps of Wen-
ham Lake ice.
                       Chablis Cup.

     Peel one lemon very thinly, take twelve lumps
of sugar, two glasses of sherry, a quart of chablis,
and a sprig of borage. Stir all these well together
and pour into the jug, which should be placed on
ice.   Before serving stir the mixture and pour in
two bottles of iced soda water.
           CUPS OF VARIOUS KINDS                    3



Champagne and Saumur Cups (inexpensive).
    Put in a jug an ounce of white sugar-candy, a
littleborage and balm, an orange sliced, two slices
of lemon, half a glass of sherry, and a bottle of
champagne or Saumur. Imbed in ice for an hour       ;


also have imbedded in ice two bottles of soda
water.   After decanting the champagne mixture
from one jug to another pour in the soda water.

                 Champagne Cup.
    Put  into a large jug a bottle of iced sparkling
champagne, with twelve lumps of white sugar, a
glass of cura^oa, a scented geranium leaf, a piece
of borage, and two slices of cucumber.   Let these
stand in ice, and also put two bottles of soda or
Salutaris water in ice, and when ready to serve
pour in the soda water and remove the cucumber
and borage.
                 Champagne Cup.
                    Another W^ay.

    One bottle of champagne, two glasses of good
sherry, one liqueur glass of curagoa or maraschino,
two tablespoonfuls of castor sugar, the thin peel of
half a cucumber, three pounds of ice.       Stir all
together, and before serving take out the cucumber
and pour in two bottles of iced soda water.


                Cider   Cup (No. i).
     Take one bottle of soda water, one    glass of
brandy, twelve lumps of sugar, a little borage and
balm, and some chipped ice.
                                              B 2
4               DRINKS A LA MODE

                  Cider   Cup (No.        2).

       Put in a jug an ounce of castor sugar, a little
balm and borage, a quart of sparkling cider, a
liqueur glass of brandy, half a glass of sherry, and
let these stand on ice for an hour   then pour in a
                                           ;



couple of bottles of iced soda water, or one bottle
of lemonade and one of soda water.


                  Cider   Cup      (No.   3).

    Peel a lemon very thinly and cut three slices of
cucumber and put them with a small sprig of mint
into a quart of cider and let it stand for about
twenty minutes then take away cucumber, lemon
                   ;


peel, and   mint, and add half a wineglass of
champagne fin, half a wineglass of curagoa, half a
wineglass of ginger brandy, one glass of sherry,
and lastly put in two bottles of ginger beer and
let it stand on ice till ready to serve. Just before
serving put in a lump of ice.


                Claret Cup (Balaklava).
                          Soyer.

    Put the thin paring of a lemon into a punch
bowl, add two tablespoonfuls of sifted sugar, the
strained juice of two lemons, and slices of cucum-
ber add two bottles of soda water, two of claret,
       ;



and one of champagne. Stir up and serve.

               Claret   Cup (Cambridge).
       One bottle of claret, half a bottle of sherry, a
gill   of port, a gill of cherry brandy, and two slices
           CUPS OF VARIOUS KINDS                    5


of lemon, or a dessert-spoonful of lemon squash     ;


add cucumber and verbena to flavour, put in some
broken Wenham Lake ice, and three bottles of
seltzer water.


                 Claret   Cup (No. i).
    Take one bottle of claret cup, one of seltzer
water, one of sparkling lemonade, a teaspoonful of
lemon juice, one pound of pounded ice, and a large
wineglassful of Kiimmel add three tablespoonfuls
                            ;



of sifted sugar.  Float a little borage and balm on
the top for an hour, then remove it.



                 Claret   Cup (No. 2).
     Cut the peel of half a lemon very thinly, add to
it  a bottle of claret, a liqueur glass of noyeau or
curagoa, half a wineglass of brandy, two bottles of
lemonade, a spray of borage, and two pounds of
ice.   Just before serving add two bottles of iced
soda water and three tablespoonfuls of sugar, which
must be stirred in very gently.


                 Claret   Cup (No. 3).
    Put a bottle of claret into a jug, with twelve
lumps of sugar, two slices of lemon, a glass of
noyeau or curagoa, and one of sherry, imbed in ice,
and add a little borage and balm, a verbena leaf or
a strawberry. When ready for use add two bottles
of iced soda water and remove borage and lemon.
Shaven ice can be put a few minutes before
serving.
6               DRINKS A LA MODE

                     Crimean Cup.
                             Soyer.

    Put one quart of syrup of orgeat, one pint of
cognac brandy, half-pint of maraschino, quarter-pint
of sunshine rum, three bottles of champagne, two
bottles soda water, three ounces sugar, the juice of
four lemons.     Stir well    till    the sugar is dissolved,
and whip the mixture up with an egg-whisk to
whiten the composition. Put the champagne in
last, and stir well.



                      Hebe's Cup.
   Cut an inch and a half off of a freshly cut
cucumber into very thin slices and put them in a
china bowl with the thin rind of a lemon and three
tablespoonfuls of castor sugar.    Mix all well to-'
gether, then pour on three tablespoonfuls of brandy,
six of sherry, a bottle of soda water, and a bottle
of claret let them remain for an hour, and add
           ;



another bottle of soda water just before serving.


                       Hock Cup.
   Mix together one bottle of Hockheimer and
one bottle of soda water and add one tablespoon-
ful   of castor sugar, three large slices of pine-apple,
and four pounds of chipped ice.


               Ice   Cream Soda Water.
      Take equal quantities of fruit syrup and cream,
with double the quantity of chipped ice, add a
bottle of soda water, and drink whilst effervescing.
           CUPS OF VARIOUS KINDS                    7



                      Moselle Cup.
    Put a large slice of pineapple at the bottom of
the jug, with a tablespoonful of powdered sugar,
pour over it a bottle of Medoc, insert a large lump
of ice, and just before it is to be used add a pint of
sparkling Moselle.

                     Mulberry Cup.
    Put two pounds of mulberries into a jar and
extract the juice by setting the basin in the oven,
and when sufficiently done strain through a sieve.
Boil the juice, allowing to a pint a pound of loaf
sugar.  To make cup, put half a pint of the juice
into a bottle of sparkling lemonade and put
chipped ice in.

                   Orange Cardinal.
    Peel a large orange very thinly, remove all the
white pithy skin, and cut the fruit into thin slices ;



take out all pips, put the slices in a bowl or basin,
and sift over them a quarter-pound of castor
sugar.   Put the rind of the orange into a pint of
vin de Grave or Niersteiner, and let it infuse for
eight or nine hours.   Then strain it over the slices
of orange, and just before serving add a bottle of
champagne.
                     Peach Sherbet.
    Peel   and       a quart of peaches, add two
                  slice
pounds of sifted sugar, the strained juice of two
lemons and of One orange. Add a pint of Sauterne,
Chablis, or still Moselle  then freeze and serve in
                           ;



green Nuremberg glasses.
8               DRINKS A LA MODE

                 Pineapple Cardinal.
   Peel a pine-apple and cut it into thin slices.
Put these into a deep dish, cover them with
powdered sugar, and let them stand five or six
hours.   Put the rind into a small stewpan with as
much water as will cover it bring it to a boil,
                                   ;


skim it, and pour it over the fruit. Add six ounces
of loaf sugar and a bottle of hock.      Cover and
leave it in a cool place for three or four hours.
When required, stir well, and mix with it a bottle
of seltzer water.

                        Samson.
       Mix together a bottle of champagne, one of
claret,   two of soda     water,   one wineglassful of
sherry, six strawberries, three     pounds of pounded
ice,   and four tablespoonfuls of sifted sugar.


                        Samson.
                       Another Way.

     Mix together a bottle of claret, one of cham-
pagne, two of soda water, one wineglassful of
sherry, six strawberries, three pounds of lumps of
ice, and four tablespoonfuls of castor sugar.



                    Sherry Cobbler.
    Take half a tumblerful of chipped ice, rub two
lumps of sugar on the zest of a lemon. After-
wards add to this two glassfuls of sherry. Stir all
briskly together, and drink the liquor through a
straw.
           CUPS OF VARIOUS KINDS                      9



                    Silver Fiz.

    Take the raw white of an egg, half a pound of
pounded rice, one tablespoonful of sifted sugar, one
wineglass of gin, and a bottle of soda water.


                     Silver Fiz.
                     Another Way.

    Put into a soda water glass a wineglassful of
Barnett's sweetened gin and a small teaspoonful of
sifted sugar, the white of one raw egg, half a pound
of chipped ice.    Mix all together and then add a
bottle of soda water, stir round, and drink it frothing.



               Soda Water Negus.
    Heat some port wine with sugar, cloves, and
grated nutmeg, but it must not boil pour it into
                                        ;


a large tumbler and fill up with soda water.
    lO              DRINKS A LA MODE




                AMERICAN DRINKS.
                       Bosom Caresser.
    Fill a tumbler with shaven or chipped ice add     ;



    a teaspoonful of raspberry syrup, a new-laid egg, a
    liqueur-glass of brandy, and a little milk.  Shake
    well and strain.
           (Americans shake   this in   a glass they call a
    pony.)


V                  Brandy or Gin Cocktail.
           Mix a quarter of a pint of brandy or gin, half a
    gillof curagoa, a tablespoonful of bitters, half a
    gillof ginger syrup, one pint of ice.  Moisten the
    rim of the tumbler with the juice of a lemon.



                        Brandy Punch.
           Mix a tablespoonful of raspberry syrup in a
    gillof water and a tablespoonful of castor sugar,
    the juice of half a lemon, and an orange strained     ;


    add a slice of pineapple and a gill of brandy, fill
    the tumbler with shaven ice.
                  AMERICAN DRINKS                 II




                    Brandy Scaffa.
                         Small Drink.

    Take a long thin liqueur glass, put in half a
liqueur-glassful of brandy and half of Maraschino   ;



add two dashes of Angostura bitters on the top.


                    Brandy Skin.
                         Short Drink.

   Fill a tumbler with chipped ice, a teaspoonful
of powdered sugar   squeeze in half a lemon, add a
                     ;


teaspoonful of strawberry syrup, and half a wine-
glassful of brandy, the paring of half a lemon.
Shake well and strain off.

                    Brandy Smash.
     Put three slices of lemon into a tumbler with a
few slices of pine-apple and a dessertspoonful of
sifted sugar  ; fill up with shaven   Wenham Lake
ice, and a wineglass of brandy, and suck through
straws.

                  Champagne Cider.
    One gallon of plain syrup with three ounces of
citric aciddissolved in a pint of water, to which add
one ounce of caramel, a quarter of an ounce of
essence of champagne cider, and three-quarters of
an ounce of American foam.


                    Ching Ching.
    Mix in a soda water tumbler a gill of liquid
sunshine rum, one sliced orange, one drop of es-
    12             DRINKS A LA MODE
    sence of peppermint, two drops of essence of cloves
    or sugar.  Fill up with pounded ice.



                          Citronade.

         One gallon of plain syrup, three ounces tartaric
'   acid  dissolve these into a pint of water
           ;
                                               add one
                                                ;



    ounce and a half of citronade and three-quarters of
    an ounce of American foam.


                        Claret Punch.
                          Long Drink.

         Fill a half pint tumbler with chipped ice, squeeze
    in half a   lemon, add a teaspoonful of powdered
    sugar, a teaspoonful of raspberry syrup  fill up;



    with claret. Shake well and ornament with fruits
    in season, and serve with straws.



                      Corpse Reviver.
        Take a long, thin liqueur glass and fill with
    equal portions of noyeau, maraschino, and yellow
    Chartreuse respectively, taking care not to mix the
    ingredients.  Drink it off at one draught.


                        Cramhamball.
        Boil two bottles of porter in a pan, then add
    half a pint of rum and ten ounces of loaf sugar       ;



    boil for a fe w minutes, take it from the fire and put
    the well-whisked whites and yolks of seven eggs.
    Stir the whole for a few minutes and pour into
    tumblers.
              AMERICAN DRINKS                      13



                   Eye Opener.
                     Short Drink.

    Fill a tumbler with chipped ice, put in a tea-
spoonful of powdered sugar and a new-laid egg        ;




add a liqueur-glass of brandy and one of rum.
Shake well and strain off

                      Floster.
                  American Sensation.

   A gill of sherry, half a gill of noyeau, six peach
leaves, three slices of lemon, half an ounce of sugar,
a bottle of iced soda water, and a lump of ice.


                    Ginger Ale.
   Take one gallon of plain syrup, two and a half
ounces of citric acid dissolved in one pint of water,
two ounces of caramel, essence of ginger ale one
ounce and a half, American foam one ounce.

                   Honey Drink.
    Melt the honey in a bainmarie and flavour it
with some essence, such as clove or lemon, with
either gin or brandy in the proportion of quarter
of an ounce of essence and half a pint of spirit to
each one pound of honey. A spoonful of this
prepared honey is then mixed with a liqueur-glass-
ful of cognac and half a pint of hot liquid.



                    John Collins.
    Put some ice into a large tumbler, squeeze on it
the juice of half a lemon, add a slice of pineapple
    14                DRINKS A LA MODE
    and a large teaspoonful of sugar, a glass of Hol-
    lands gin, and then a bottle of soda water.  Stir,
    and drink whilst effervescing.


                           Kentucky Flip.
        Beat up with one egg a tablespoonful of syrup
    of cloves, thesame of cinnamon, a teaspoonful of
    lemon ditto, and a teaspoonful of rum punch                  ;



    divide into two tumblers and fill each gradually
    with boiling water and stir quickly all the time.


                          Lemon Squash.
                             Long Drink.

         Fill    a soda-water glass with chipped        ice,   the
    juice of a whole lemon, one and a half teaspoonful
    of powdered sugar fill up the glass with soda
                              ;




.   water   ;   stir well, ornament with fruits in   season, and
    serve with straws.

                            Mint Julep.
         Put a dozen sprigs of mint into a tumbler, add
    a tablespoonful of white sugar, half a wineglassful
    of peach and the same of common brandy, then
    fill up the tumbler with chipped ice.




                           Nectar Drink.
        Stir a small wineglassful of cognac and a
    spoonful of lemon honey till quite smooth heat        ;



    half a pint of sweet cider and pour it on to the
    honey, &c., stirring it again till smooth, and place
    on ice.
             AMERICAN DRINKS                    ^5




                 Peach Drink.
   Put into a tumbler a teaspoonful of cherry
brandy syrup, the same of lemon ditto, and the
same quantity of peach sugar fill up with boiling
                                  ;



water.

                 Prairie Oyster.
                    Short Drink.

    Put a teaspoonful of vinegar in a wineglass,
then a new-laid egg with, a little salt and pepper
over it, and then a drop of Worcester sauce.



                    President.

    Beat the yolks of two eggs with four ounces of
powdered sugar, add a tablespoonful of orange-
flower water, the like quantity of orange syrup and
a teaspoonful of lemon juice divide into two tum-
                              ;



blers and fill with boiling water.



                 Prima Donna.
   Beat the yolk of one egg in a glass of sherry
and add a very little Cayenne pepper.


                   St. Charles.

    Take a bottle of cherry-water in a gill of
Kirschwasser, half a pint of chipped ice, and a
bottle of seltzer water.
i6                DRINKS A LA MODE

                   Sam Ward Kiimmel.
                          Canadian Recipe.

   Fill a claret glass nearly full with pounded ice
and put in enough thin lemon peel to fill it, and
then pour on all a liqueur-glass of Kummel.


                              Toddy.
   Take the thin rind of two large lemons and
put it into a bowl with half a pint of cold water,
and let it soak till the liquor is pleasantly flavoured     ;



take out the rind and in its place put a small
quantity of fruit, such as three or four strawberries
and a slice of pineapple. Ten minutes before the
toddy is served add a pint of Sunshine rum and a
quarter of a pound of crushed ice.


                          Tom Collins.
   This is made in the same way as John Collins,
except that Plymouth gin should be used.


                     Whisky Cocktail.
     Half a       gill   of   whisky, one    teaspoonful   of
bitters, two drops of essence of cinnamon.         Sweeten
with syrup    ;   add half a pound of pounded ice.


                         Whisky Cordial.
   Strip a pound of ripe currants from their stalks,
put them into a large jar, add the rind of two
lemons, quarter of an ounce of powdered ginger.
               AMERICAN DRINKS                   17


and a quart of whisky cover the jug closely and
                       ;



let it remain covered for twenty-four hours. Strain
through a tammy, add one pound of loaf sugar, and
let it stand twelve hours longer then bottle and
                                 ;



cork well.

                 Whisky Sour.
   Take half a tumblerful of old whisky and the
same quantity of lemon syrup, put in chipped ice
and pour them from one glass into another two or
three times.




                                             C
i8           DRINKS A LA MODE




                      PUNCH,
                      Bal Punch.
                     Devonshire Recipe.

Take one bottle of whisky, one of rum, half a
bottle of brandy, a quarter of a bottle of port wine,
three pounds of sugar, and a tumblerful of lemon
juice. Mix all together and pour on this a kettleful
of boiling water.


            Cambridge Milk Punch.
    Take two quarts of milk, and put into it the
thinly pared rind of a lemon, with half a pound of
loaf sugar.  Let all boil slowly, then take out the
lemon-peel.   Draw it from the fire, and stir in
quickly a couple of whisked eggs which have been
mixed with half a pint of cold milk and strained
through a sieve let stand by side of fire. After
                 ;



these are mixed the milk must not boil.        Add
gradually a pint of rum and half a pint of brandy   ;



stir the punch to a froth and serve it quickly in
warm glasses.
                Champagne Punch.
   Pour into a small punch-bowl a bottle of cham-
pagne, three tablespoonfuls of sugar, one sliced
                                PUNCH               19

orange, the juice of one lemon, two slices of pine-
apple cut in pieces, a wineglassful of raspberry or
strawberry syrup. Ornament with fruits in season,
and serve in champagne glasses.



   Cold Imperial Punch, or Kaiser Punch.
    Take one small pine-apple, slice very thinly into
a punch bowl peel four oranges, slice them up into
               ;




the pine-apple take the zest of one Seville orange,
                   ;



one pod of vanilla, and a little cinnamon. Put the
three together in a jug, and pour one quart of
boiling water over    let this infuse.
                           ;            Pour into the
bowl one bottle of good hock, one bottle of arrack,
the juice of four lemons strain the flavoured water
                                   ;


into the bowl, cover up till cold.     When ready to
serve, add one bottle of champagne and one pint
of seltzer water    stir well together, and serve in
                       ;



champagne glasses.


                               Gin Punch.
    Half a pint of gin, one gill of maraschino, the
strained juice of two lemons, three ounces of sugar,
and two bottles of either soda or seltzer water.
Ice well.


                               Gin Punch.
                               Another Way.

   Mix together a gill of gin, a bottle of sparkling
lemonade, a dessertspoonful of lemon syrup, and a
lump of ice.
                                              c 2
20              DRINKS A LA MODE

                     Gin Punch.
                     American Recipe.

     Rub half a pound of loaf sugar on the rind of six
lemons till all the yellow part is grated off, then
crush the sugar and put it into a basin with the
strained juice of the lemons pour to this half a
                                 ;



pint of boiling water, and leave it to dissolve.
Infuse two ounces of green tea and about a tea-
spoonful of coriander seeds in half a pint of boiling
water for twenty minutes, then strain the tea liquor
to the lemon, &c., and add two quarts of gin, and
when cold bottle, cork, seal up carefully, and keep
cool.

                     Milk Punch.
   Boil two or three bitter almonds in a quart of
milk with the thinly pared rind of a lemon, and
sugar to taste strain, and then stir in the white of
                 ;



an egg whisked to a froth, and whilst whisking add
a wineglassful of rum and half a pint of brandy,
and serve hot.

              Milk Punch a la R^gence.
    Pour two quarts of liquid sunshine rum on
the thinly-pared rind of twenty-four lemons, eight
sweet and two Seville oranges, and two thick slices
of pine-apple.   Cut into coarse dice, then cover up
the basin and let it stand till next day.    Pour it
then into a large basin, with a pint of strained
lemon juice, half the quantity of orange juice, two
more bottles of rum, four quarts of sweetened green
tea, a bottle of Madeira, a pint of maraschino, half
                        PUNCH                    21


a pint of curagoa, and two grated nutmegs, and
stir all  carefully together.   When thoroughly
mixed pour in slowly two quarts of boiling milk.
Cover up the basin again, and let it stand for six
hours, stirring it now and again.      Strain three
times carefully through a jelly bag, bottle at once,
and cork safely. Keep this for a month, and ice
before serving.

                   Norfolk Punch.

     Take the rind of sixteen fresh lemons and the
same number of Seville oranges, pare them thinly
and free from white. Put them into an earthen-
ware jug and pour over two quarts of brandy, and
let them soak for twenty-four hours.      Strain the
brandy, and mix with it a syrup made by boiling
two pounds of loaf sugar with three quarts of water
till quite clear.   The syrup must be cold before
the brandy is added. Add the strained and filtered
juice of the oranges and lemons, and put the liquor
into a clean spirit cask let it remain for six weeks
                          ;


and then bottle.

                       Pony Punch.
    Take a teacupful of strong green tea, rub the
rind of a fresh lemon upon three lumps of sugar
and put into it add the strained juice of three
                   ;



lemons, a teaspoonful of essence of cinnamon, a
grate of nutmeg, half a pound of sugar dissolved
in a gill of water, a bottle of Chablis made hot, a
gill of best brandy, the same of liquid sunshine
rum, and a wineglassful of sack. Mix thoroughly,
strain, and serve hot.
22               DRINKS A LA MODE

                  Punch k la Cardinal
was made by cutting the rind of green bitter
oranges very thin, and allowing it to dry for a few
hours in the air, then roasting to a golden-brown
colour, after which it was put into a bottle and
covered with deodorised alcohol, corked up tightly,
and set in the sun for a week. This infusion was
put into sherbet prepared in the same way as
                     ^



for Roman punch, except that the rum was left
out and champagne only used, and sufficient of the
bitter orange infusion, which should be the prin-
cipal flavour.     This should be tinted a        fine   red
colour with a little carmine.


                 Punch a la Fran^aise.
     Boil a quarter of a pound of sugar in a gill of
water, then add eight or nine lumps of sugar rubbed
on the rind of a lemon, the juice of a lemon, half a
pint of brandy, and a wineglassful of rum.      Heat
it, but do not let it boil   pour it into a bowl, set
                                 ;



fire to it, and serve whilst blazing.



                  Punch              la   Papp.
                   Original Vatican Recipe.

    Prepare a very rich pine-appleade or sherbet           ;


make    it a little tart with lemon juice, taking the

greatest care that none of the zest or oil from the
yellow rind, or the bitterness from the white pith,
be allowed to enter into the composition of this
sherbet.    In order to be certain of this it is best

                         ^
                             See p. 23.
                      PUNCH                               23

first to grate off the yellow rind from the lemons,

then to carefully remove all the white pith, and, to  '




make assurance double sure,' wash the skinned
fruit in clear water, after which press out the juice
free from the rind of the fruit. Strain the juice, so
as to remove all the seeds or pips from it    ;  then
add to it the pine-apple mixture. It must be then
very well frozen. This sherbet being very rich
will not freeze hard, but will be a semi-ice.    Just
                                                  >




before the punch is to be served add and work
into it for every quart of the ice one gill of old
Jamaica, and for every two quarts one pint of the
best champagne.        Never use the wine from
damaged bottles or leaky corks, as it will be sure
to deprave, and perhaps entirely destroy, your
punch.     After you have well incorporated these
liquors add a cream or meringue mixture.


              Punch a la Romaine.
    Choose three dozen lemons with very smooth
though not tough skins    ;
                              peel them into a large
china basin, being very careful that there be none of
the white on the yellow rind then add two pounds
                              ;


of broken lump sugar and stir all together with a
wooden spoon for half an hour to extract the
essential oil.  Next pour on boiling water in the
basin, and stir till the sugar is dissolved. Cut and
squeeze the lemons, strain the juice, put the pips
into a separate pan, and pour boiling water on
them.   Next throw into the sherbet one-half the
lemon juice, and as soon as the pips are free from
the transparent coating strain off the liquor and
add it to the mixture. Taste it, and add more
sugar or lemon as may be required.      For every
24           DRINKS A LA MODE
half-dozen lemons used, beat up the whites of three
eggs to a stiff snow, and pour upon them half a
pound of simple syrup that has been boiled to the
thickness of molasses and cooled, mix well toge-
ther, and add and work it into the frozen sherbet.
Just before serving add for every six lemons used
half a pint of old rum, half a pint of brandy,
a wineglassful of maraschino, and a pint of the
best champagne.     Stir these all well up together,
and freeze again for a short time.


                    Rum Punch.
             Francatelli's Recipe for Bottling.


    Mix together a quart of brandy, a quart of
rum, half a pint of strong green tea, half a pint of
arrack, the strained juice of twelve lemons, the
thin rind of four lemons, half a nutmeg grated, a
well-bruised stick of cinnamon, twelve bruised
cloves, thirty bruised coriander seeds, two pounds of
sliced pine-apple, nine  pounds of loaf sugar, and
two quarts of boiling water stir together. Keep
                                   ;



it very closely covered for two days, then boil two

quarts of pure milk and add it to the mixture,
and mix thoroughly, and in an hour's time filter       ;



then bottle off and cork down tight.    Ice it before
serving.


                  Russian Punch.
    Dissolve a pound of sugar in three pints of
green tea (it must not be strong)   add half a    ;



tumblerful of lemon or lime juice and a gill of
 Kiimmel.
                         PUNCH                   25




                    Tea Punch.
   To a tumbler of boiling tea add a tablespoonful
of lemon syrup, a teaspoonful of cherry brandy,
and the same of rum punch.


               The Regent's Punch.
                The Practical Confectioner.

    Infuse in half a pint of light cold syrup the
thinly pared rinds of two sweet and one Seville
oranges and two lemons, then add the strained
juice of the fruit.  Apint of strong green tea, well
sweetened and allowed to get cold, a glass each of
arrack, brandy, old Jamaica rum, and pineapple
syrup, with two bottles of champagne, are then
poured to the peel, &c. The liquor is carefully
strained through fine muslin, bottled, and set in
ice till required.


                 University Punch.

      Add to a tumbler of boiling water a teaspoon-
ful of lemon syrup, the same of orange, one of
cherry brandy, one of rum punch, and one of shrub
syrup.

                 Yorkshire Punch.
     Pour two tablespoonfuls of strained lemon juice
over four tablespoonfuls of castor sugar, blend them
well together, adding four tumblerfuls of cold
water.    When the sugar is dissolved add a good
gill of rum, and serve at once.
                                                       ;




26              DRINKS A LA MODE




                 HOT DRINKS.
                     Apple Toddy.
To    two tablespoonfuls of simple syrup add one
of cider.  Fill up the tumbler with boiling water.



                        Bishop.

   Roast before the fire till it becomes brown a
lemon stuck with cloves. Pound together half a
pound of loaf sugar, a little grated nutmeg, ginger,
cinnamon, two cloves, and the thin rind of a lemon
place this mixture,    when   well incorporated, in a
bowl by the side of the fire, adding half a pint of
water, half a pint of port wine, one bottle of claret.
Strain, and then heat the mixture     then place the
                                      ;



roasted lemon in a punch bowl, press the juice
out, and add a wineglassful of cherry brandy and
the mixture.

                        Bishop.
                      Another Way.

     Roast four good-sized bitter oranges till of a pale
brown colour, lay them in a tureen, and put over
them half a pound of powdered loaf sugar and
                                 HOT DRINKS               27

three                      place the cover on the
               glasses of claret      ;


tureen, and let    stand till the next day.
                            it               Then
press the oranges with a spoon, and run the
juice through the sieve.  Then boil the remainder
of the claret, taking care that it does not burn           ;


add this to the strained juice, and serve warm in
glasses.

                                 Bishop (Hot).

    Stick a Seville orange with about twelve cloves
in    and roast it in front of the fire till of a dark
     it,

brown colour. Pound together a little sugar, cinna-
mon, cloves, ginger, allspice, half a pint of water, a
bottle of port wine, then the orange          stir well
                                                      ;



together, and let it stand by the fire without boil-
ing.           Serve hot.

                                  Cardinal.

    Cut three Tangerine oranges in slices add three   ;



drops of essence of cinnamon, three bruised carda-
mom seeds, and four ounces of dissolved barley
sugar in one pint of hot water cover, and let the
                                              ;


mixture simmer for half an hour          strain and
                                                  ;


clear  add a bottle of champagne and warm up.
           ;




                        Devonshire Drink.
    Sweeten half a pint of hot milk with a table-
spoonful of lemon syrup and a teaspoonful of clove
and cinnamon syrups.

                                 Egg Flip.
    Put a quart of ale on the fire to warm, and
beat up six eggs with four ounces of moist sugar.
28               DRINKS A LA MODE
Remove the froth of the ale when on the fire till it
begins to boil. Mix the froth with the sugar and
eggs, add grated nutmeg to taste, and a gill of
rum. When the ale boils, stir it gradually into the
eggs and rum till quite smooth, and serve.


                       Egg Nog.
    Put two yolks of egg into a tumbler with a
sprinkle of nutmeg, a dessertspoonful of crystallised
brown sugar, and a teaspoonful of grated ginger.
Make a pint of ale hot, and add a small piece of
stick of cinnamon and a glass of sunshine rum        ;



pour gradually to the yolks of eggs and whisk till
it   froths.   Serve hot


                      Elder Wine.

    Pour three gallons of boiling water on a peck of
elder berries picked from their stalks, and let them
stand covered for two or three days then strain off
                                      ;


through a fine sieve, and mash the fruit to get the
juice from it.   Take nine pounds of sugar and put
it to the strained juice with six cloves, half an ounce

of ginger (ground), and a pound of good raisins          ;


then boil for an hour. Be careful to skim well.
Let it stand to cool until it is only milk-warm          ;


then put it into a clean dry cask with three table-
spoonfuls of fresh yeast.    Let it ferment for about
a fortnight, then add three-quarters of a pint of
brandy. Bung up the cask and let it stand six
months before it is bottled. This wine is always
mulled and served with sippets of toasted bread
 and a little grated nutmeg.
                          HOT DRINKS                          29



                             Hot Pot.
        A quart of beer, a quarter of a pint of gin, four
tablespoonfuls of brown sugar, the yolks of two eggs,
a tablespoonful of ground ginger, and a teaspoonful
of grated nutmeg.    Boil up the beer and add half
the gin beat the eggs till light with the sugar and
                 ;



spice, then pour the boiling beer on to them, add
the rest of the gin, and whisk it all together till
it is   frothy.       Serve very hot.

                          Mulled Claret.
    Boil a little spice in a gill of water with sugar till
syrupy   then pour in some claret and stir till hot,
             ;



but not boiling.         A
                   slice of lemon should float in it.


                       Mulled Egg Wine.
    Beat up an egg with a couple of glasses of
sherry; sugar to taste  add gradually some boiling
                              ;



water and a sprinkle of nutmeg.

                     Mulled Wine with Eggs.
    Beat three eggs till light with two ounces of
sugar    ;   warm a bottle of sherry over the fire, and
when hot, but not boiling, add nutmeg, cloves, cin-
namon, and a grate of lemon peel           ;
                                               pour    it on the

eggs while hot, whisking all the time          ;   add a spoon-
ful of burnt brandy.


                             Negus.
   Sweeten either port or sherry according to taste,
and put double the quantity of water to it flavour     ;
30             DRINKS A LA MODE
with the thin rind of a lemon, and just give one
grate of nutmeg.

                      Night Cap.
    Simmer half a pint of ale, and when on the
point of boiling pour it out grate half a nutmeg
                               ;


into it, and add a teaspoonful of moist sugar and
two tablespoonfuls of brandy.


               Night Cap (Sleeping).
   Sweeten some boiling milk, flavour with a few
drops of essence of vanilla (or lemon if preferred),
and pour in some soda water.


                  Oxford Mixture.
    Take half a tumblerful of tea, sugar, and milk    ;


add a slice of lemon, a wineglassful of new milk,
and the same of rum or brandy beat up a new-
                                     ;


laid egg and add it to the rest whilst warm.



                 Sportsman*s Drink.

    Beat the yolk of an egg with a tablespoonful of
hot gin and a teaspoonful of syrup, and divide into
tumblers, and fill each with boiling water.



                   Wassail Bowl.
     One quart of hot ale, half a bottle of sherry, the
juice and peel of a lemon, two well-roasted apples.
                    HOT DRINKS                        31


a quarter of an ounce each of grated nutmeg, ginger,
and cinnamon, with sugar to taste.


                   Wassail Bowl.
                     Another Recipe.

    Put into a saucepan half a nutmeg, one clove,
a quarter of an ounce of grated ginger, half a small
blade of mace, an inch of cinnamon stick, and two
coriander and cardamom seeds.      Pour on these a
teacupful of cold water, and let boil   next add a
                                        ;


pint of ale and two bottles of white wine (Madeira)
and three-quarters of a pound of fine sugar. Set
the saucepan on the fire.     Into the wassail bowl
break the yolks of six eggs and the whites of three.
When the wine is warm, mix a teacupful of it into
the bowl with the eggs. When it is a little warmer,
add another teacupful, and repeat till five teacup-
fuls have been used. Let the wine boil, and pour it
upon the eggs,     stirring briskly, so as   to froth it.
Core six apples, without paring them, fill the cavi-
ties with sugar, roast them, and throw them into
the bowl.  Serve very hot.


                   Whisky Toddy.
     Take a large tumbler, holding quite half a pint,
and put a dessertspoonful of ale with two slices of
lemon into it then take a good wineglassful of
               ;



whisky and place it upright in the centre of the
tumbler and pour boiling water into the wine glass,
causing the liquid to run over the tumbler until it
is nearly full.  Throw away the contents of the
wine glass and add sugar to taste.
32           DRINKS A LA MODE

                    Zabajone.
                    Italian Drink.


    This consists of a frothing wine mixture, yolks
of eggs, and sugar, thickened over the fire.   It is
generally made with gold Cyprus wine and two
                                     —
other kinds of wine mixed together for instance,
Malaga and Marsala, one sweet and the other
spirituous.  It is made by taking three yolks for
every two guests, a spoonful of sugar to each egg,
and as much wine as the eggs will use up.      First
mix the yolks and sugar well together, then add the
wine, and put the mixture over the fire till it be-
comes condensed. It must not boil, and should be
served very hot in glasses.
                               33




             COOLING DRINKS.
                          Bomba.
                         Italian Drink.


Blanch two ounces of sweet almonds and rub
them to a smooth pulp in a mortar with an equal
weight of sugar to this add a single bitter almond,
                 ;



also rubbed to a paste. One quart of water should
be gradually added in a thin stream to this pulp,
and the mixing must continue the whole time.

                 Cranberry Drink.
   Put a teacupful of cranberries into a cupful of
water and mash them. Boil two quarts of water with
one large table-spoonful of oatmeal and a bit of
lemon peel   ;add the cranberries, a little sugar, and
a gill of white wine boil for half an hour and strain.
                     ;




                     Eau Sucree.
   Half a pound of sugar to one pint of boiling
water.

                         Gingerade.
   Crush an ounce of whole ginger, pour over it a
quart of boiling water, cover the vessel, and let the
                                               D
34                DRINKS A LA MODE
infusion stand    strain, and then add a teaspoonful
                  ;


of Nelson's citric acid, six drops of Nelson's lemon
flavouring, and a quarter of a pound of lump sugar.
Stir until dissolved, when          it   will be ready for use.



                        Ginger Beer.
                          Mrs. Beeton.

    Peel two lemons and press out the juice squeeze    ;


it and put the peel and juice into a large pan with
an ounce and a half of bruised ginger, one ounce
of cream of tartar, and two and a half pounds of
loaf sugar. Pour three gallons of boiling water over
this mixture let it stand till it is only just warm,
              ;


when two large table-spoonfuls of brewer's yeast
should be added.     Stir the contents of the pan
well and let remain near the fire all night, covering
the pan over with a cloth.   Next day skim off the
yeast and pour the liquor carefully into another
vessel, leaving the sediment, then bottle imme-
diately and tie the corks down, and in three days
the ginger beer will be       fit   for use.


                      Lemonade (No. i).
    Dissolve three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar
and the contents of a threepenny packet of Nelson's
citric acid in  a quart of boiling water and the
twelfth   part of a bottle of Nelson's                essence of
lemon.
                  Lemonade               (No.   2).

     Take four lemons and squeeze the juice into a
glass jug through a strainer.  Pour a quart of boil-
ing water on to the juice and put in a tablespoonful
                         COOLING DRINKS                      35

(or more if necessary) of pounded        lump sugar.        Let
it   get cool.   takes several hours unless it is put
                    It
into a refrigerator.  Just before serving cut some
lemon peel very thinly and place in the liquid and
twelve lumps of ice.

                         Lemonade (No. 3).
    Put four ounces of fresh lemon juice, half an
ounce of thin rind of a fresh lemon, and four
ounces of castor sugar to three pints of boiling
water.  When cold, strain through muslin, bottle,
and cork carefully.

                         Lemon    Squash.
    Press the juice from the lemons and strain
thoroughly.    Let it stand till morning pour it off
                                              ;



on to its own bulk of white sugar, add one pint of
water, stir over a gentle fire till the sugar is dis-
solved add the shell and white of one egg whisked
           ;
                                                              ;


whip it into the lemon syrup and continue till it
boils let it boil for a few minutes, then strain it
       ;



through a silk tammy cloth and bottle it, and then
add two drops of citric acid, fill up with a little
lemon syrup, and cork.           A
                             wineglass of this should
be poured in, which fills the glass rather more than
half-way add soda-water and serve with straws.
               ;




                   Lemonade and Angostura.
                             American.

     One gallon of simple syrup, two ounces of citric
acid, which dissolve in one pint of water         ;   add half
an ounce of essence of Angostura bitters and a
quarter of an ounce of nubine.
                                                      D 2
36             DRINKS A LA MODE

                    May Nectar.
                     German Recipe.

     Take six leaves each   of tarragon, geranium,
milfoil, and pimpernel, half the quantity of black
currant, mint, basil, and balsam leaves.      Slice a
lemon and add to it also a few sprigs of lavender,
half a pound of castor sugar, twenty leaves of balm,
fifteen of peppermint, two of mild sweet-scented
woodruff with the blossom. Put these into a large
china bowl and pour over four bottles of Niersteiner.
Let this mixture sleep for a couple of hours before
it is drunk.


                        Mead.
    Dissolve a pound of honey in three quarts of
water.    Boil, skim, and reduce to half a gallon.
Fill a jug with it, cover it, and let it remain undis-
turbed for three days.


                       Nectar.

     One gallon of simple syrup, two ounces of citric
acid, and a quarter of an ounce of caramel, one-
eighth of an ounce of essence of carmine and the
same quantity of nectar.

                     Orangeade.
    Make a syrup by boiling six ounces of loaf
sugar in half a pint of water till the sugar is dis-
solved.  Pour it over the thin yellow rinds of two
small oranges and let them infuse for three hours.
Strain the juice of six oranges into a glass jug add
                                                ;
                         COOLING DRINKS                 37

the syrup after passing it through a fine tammy,
and a pint and a half of cold water.


                       Raspberry Vinegar.

    To three quarts of raspberries put two quarts
of white vinegar let them stand three days, then
                              ;



strain through a sieve and add a pound of loaf
sugar and boil for twenty minutes.


                       Raspberry Vinegar.
                                   Another Way.

                                 pour vinegar over to
       Fill a jar with raspberries              ;



fill   the jar   ;  stand a fortnight, stirring daily
                     let it                              ;


then strain off, and to every pint of juice add three-
quarters of a pound of white sugar boil it as long  ;


as any scum rises and bottle off for use.



                                     Shrub.

    Simple syrup one gallon, one and a half ounce
of shrub, one ounce and a half citric acid, one-
eighth of an ounce prepared carmine.



                                  Strawberry.
                                    American.

    Simple syrup one gallon, four ounces of essence
of strawberry, one ounce tartaric acid, one-eighth
of an ounce caramel, prepared carmine one-eighth
of an ounce.
38              DRINKS A LA MODE

                 Tamarind Drink.
    Boil three pints of water with an ounce and a
half of tamarinds, three ounces of currants, and two
ounces of stoned raisins, till about a third has
evaporated strain add a bit of lemon peel, which
            ;       ;



should be removed in half an hour then cool.
                                    ;




                Victoria   Lemonade.
    Take four quarts of raspberry syrup, four quarts
of morella cherry syrup, two quarts of red currant
syrup mix well and bottle.
      ;
                            39




                BEER CUPS.
                    Ale Berry.

Mix two large spoonfuls of oatmeal groats in a
little water, and gradually add to it half a pint of
boiling beer or porter boil it in a saucepan and
                        ;



grate a little whole ginger into it sweeten to taste.
                                     ;


It takes about ten minutes to boil.



                     Ale Cup.

   Take two quarts of ale, the juice of a lemon,
some powdered sugar and nutmeg, and a little
brandy, with toast floating in it.


                      Ale Cup.
                     Another Way.

    Squeeze the juice of a lemon into a round of
hot toast lay on it a thin piece of the rind, a table-
           ;


spoonful of castor sugar, a grate of nutmeg, and a
sprig of balm.  Pour over these one glass of brandy,
two of sherry, and three pints of bitter ale. Re-
move the balm after a few seconds.
                                                    ;




40            DRINKS A LA MODE

                     Ale Flip.
    Boil some ale with sugar, mace, cloves, and
butter in small quantities add, when well mixed,
                            ;


two eggs.

                    Ale Posset.
    Pour some boiling milk over a slice of toast
add an egg, butter and sugar to taste. Mix with
a pint of hot ale and boil till it simmers.


                      Cooper.

     Apint of Dublin stout and a pint of London
porter mixed.

                  Half and Half.

   Half a pint of ale and half a pint of porter
mixed.

                      Jingle.

    Roast three apples, grate nutmeg over them,
add sugar to taste, and place the whole in a quart
jug with some slices of plum cake make some ale
                                   ;


hot, fill up the jug with this, and then serve.



             King William's Posset.
    Take a quart of cream and mix with it a pint
of ale, then beat the yolks of ten eggs and the
whites of four. When they are all well beaten put
them to the cream and ale, sweeten to taste, and
slice some nutmeg in it set it over the fire and keep
                        ;
                         BEER CUPS                  41


it stirring all the while, and when it is thick, and

before it boils, take it off and pour it into a jug.



                     Mulled Ale (No. i).
    Boil a pint of ale with a little nutmeg and
grated sugar beat up three eggs and mix them
                 ;



with a little cold ale then add the hot ale to it
                           ;


gradually next pour the liquor to and fro from
             ;



one jug to another several times, to prevent its
curdling warm and stir till it thickens, then add
         ;


a table-spoonful of brandy and serve hot with
toast.


                     Mulled Ale (No. 2).
     For one glass take the yolk of an egg, a large
teaspoonful of sugar, and a grate of nutmeg beat
                                               ;


them till quite smooth, then add a teaspoonful of
cream.    Make the beer hot, but not boiling. Mix
in the other ingredients and stir all together till it
is quite thick.




                     Mulled Ale (No. 3).
    Put half a pint of ale, a clove, a little piece of
whole ginger, a piece of butter the size of a nut,
and a teaspoonful of sugar into a saucepan and
bring it to the boil.  Beat up a couple of eggs in
a table-spoonful of cold ale and then pour the boil-
ing ale into them and then into a large jug.      Pass
this mixture from one jug to another several times,
holding the jugs high. Put it back into the sauce-
pan, but do not let it boil.
42             DRINKS A LA MODE

                         Purl.

    Make a quart of ale hot into which has been
put a table-spoonful of powdered ginger and nutmeg.
Whisk up with a gill of cold ale and two ounces of
moist sugar and three fresh eggs. When well
frothed, add the warm ale by degrees and a glass
of gin.

                         Purl.
                      Another Way.

   Take half a pint of ale, a quarter of a pint of
milk  ;add some sugar and a wineglassful of gin,
brandy, or rum.

                    Shandy    Gaff.

     Put a bottle of ginger beer into a pint of ale.
                           43




                  LIQUEURS.

                     Alkermes.
                     Italian Liqueur.


Mix   together   forty   grains of cinnamon, ten   of
cloves, and ten of vanilla pour over two drachms
                             ;


of spirits of wine of 32°, and let all infuse for
ten or twelve days, keeping the bottle well corked.
Prepare a syrup with a pound and a half of sugar
in a pint of spring water and half a pint of rose
water.   Take ten drops of cochineal and half a
drachm of alum, and let them boil in a wineglassful
of water for a few minutes to get the colouring
matter.    Then mix all together thoroughly, and
filter through filtering papers.




                 Aniseed Liqueur.
    To one gallon of syrup add one ounce and a
half of aniseed.


                 Apricot Brandy.
    To every pound of fruit put one of loaf sugar and
a wineglassful of water.    The apricots should not
be quite ripe. Place them in a saucepan with suf-
44                 DRINKS A LA MODE
ficient water to cover them, and let them boil.
After bringing to boil they must gently simmer till
tender, when the skins must be removed. Boil and
clarify the sugar, and pour it through a colander
over the fruit, and let it remain to soak for a day
and a half then put the apricots into bottles. Add
           ;



syrup and brandy in quantities half and half. Secure
the corks well, and bottle a year before using.



                   Black Currant Gin.

    To every quart of fruit put a pound of broken
sugar candy add three cloves and a pint and a
               ;


half of gin and place in a stone jar, which must
be very tightly covered, and shake it constantly.
It will not be fit for drinking for three months,
when the liquid ought to be very clear after it is
strained from the fruit.



                   Blackberry Ratafia.

    Take ten pounds of blackberries and mash
them with the juice of ten oranges and five lemons.
Pound in a mortar a quarter of a pound of bitter
almonds, the same of nutmeg, one pod of vanilla,
half an ounce of coriander seeds, and two sticks of
Jamaica ginger. Put this with the fruit and a pint
of syrup.   Put it all into a well-corked stone bottle
and stand it near the fire for a fortnight, when the
liquor can be strained off, and to each quart add
one of best brandy then let it stand another fort-
                       ;


night, and clear it by running it two or three times
through a jelly, bag.
                          LIQUEURS                 45



                       Carraway Liqueur.
   Simple syrup one gallon, essence of carraway
one ounce, caramel a quarter of an ounce.


                          Cherry Gin.
   Take a quarter of a pound of castor sugar, one
pound of small black cherries, and fill up with gin
in a large bottle.



                        Cloves Liqueur.
      Simple syrup one gallon, one ounce of essence
of cloves, caramel a quarter of an ounce.


                       Creme de Citron.
    Make a quart of syrup by putting a quart of
water over the fire in a well-tinned copper sauce-
pan, and dropping in as soon as it begins to boil
one pound of loaf sugar lump by lump ;• when the
sugar is melted boil it up, and then pour it into a
basin to cool put sixty drops of oil of citron into
                   ;


a quart of spirits of wine, shaking up thoroughly.
Then mix it with the quart of syrup, and add two
ounces of colouring, made by putting half a drachm
of saffron into two ounces of spirits of wine. Filter
all through filtering-paper, and bottle for use.



                       Creme de Girofl^.
      To a quart of spirits of wine add forty drops of
oil   of cloves shake well, and mix in a quart of
               ;
46             DRINKS A LA MODE
syrup (made     in   the   same way   as for   Creme de
Citron).    Add some drops of cochineal, and filter
through filtering-paper and bottle immediately.
This liqueur is very good for singers who suffer
from relaxation of throat.


                     Crfeme de Rose.

      Put twelve drops of oil of roses and three of
oil of nutmeg into a quart of spirits of wine.
Shake the mixture well, and when the oils are
dissolved add a quart of the syrup (as in Creme de
Citron) and a sufficient quantity of essence of
cochineal to   produce a     fine rose   colour.   Filter
and bottle.

                 Creme de Vanille.
    Put twelve drops of the tincture of vanilla into
a quart of spirits of wine shake well, then add a
                              ;



syrup as before described. When well mixed let
it stand ten minutes, then filter it twice, or even

thrice if necessary, through filtering-paper.     It
should be very bright and clear.


                        Cura9oa.

    One gallon of syrup, two ounces of essence of
curagoa, four ounces of lemon juice, a quarter
of an ounce of essence of carmine, one-eighth of
an ounce of caramel. Mix well, then bottle. Or
it can be made with one gallon of syrup, one and a

half of essence of curagoa, the juice of four oranges,
one-eighth of an ounce of an infusion of saffron.
                        LIQUEURS                    47



                         Cura9oa.
                        Another Way.

    Into a quart of boiling water drop bit by bit a
pound of dark brown sugar candy; when dissolved
let the syrup boil up, and pour into a deep dish to
cool.   Drop a hundred and twenty drops of oil
of bitter oranges into a quart of spirits of wine    ;


when this is dissolved mix up with the syrup, then
filter and bottle.


                         Curacoa.
               I
                         Home-made.

    Take a quarter of a pound of the thin rind of
Seville oranges,      and pour over a pint of boiling
brandy     ;   when cool add two quarts of brandy, and
let it remain for a fortnight, stirring it daily. Put
a pint of clarified syrup to it, and then line a
funnel with muslin and a filtering-paper, and pass
the liquid through three times till quite bright.
Put into bottles and cork tightly.


                         Gin Sling.
    Put two slices of lemon and four or five lumps
of loaf sugar into a tumbler fill up with shaven
                                      ;



or crushed Wenham Lake ice      add a wineglassful
                                          ;



of gin stir, and suck through a straw.
       ;




                      Ginger Brandy.
    One gallon of simple syrup, essence of ginger
brandy two ounces, essence of orange one ounce,
and a quarter of an ounce of caramel.
                                                       ;




 48            DRINKS A LA MODE

                    Ginger Gin.
    Plain syrup one gallon, essence of ginger one
ounce.
                   Ginger Wine.
      To make six quarts take six quarts of water
and add four pounds of powdered sugar when   ;


melted add three drachms of essence of ginger,
three drachms of essence of cayenne, one ounce of
tartaric acid, and two pennyworth of burnt sugar
let it stand overnight, and bottle next day.  To
make it last some time add a table-spoonful of
whisky before bottling.

                    Gingerette.
                      American.

    One gallon of simple syrup, two and a half ounces
of tartaric acid dissolved in one pint of water, two
ounces of caramel, half an ounce of American foam,
a quarter of an ounce of essence of gingerette, and
half an ounce of essence of lemon.


                    Gingerette.
                    Another Way.

    Simple syrup one gallon, essence of Jamaica
ginger two ounces, one ounce citric acid, a quarter
of an ounce of caramel, and two ounces of essence
of lemon.
                   Goldwasser.
   Take a quart of rectified spirits of wine (sixty-
two degrees over proof), and add twelve drops of
oil of aniseed, six drops of oil of cinnamon, three
drops of oil of roses, eight drops of oil of citron.
                                                     ;




                    LIQUEURS                       49

Shake up all well together, and when the oils are
dissolved mix with it a quart of the syrup as
before described.    Filter through filtering-paper,
and before bottling stir in a square of gold leaf
cut into very small bits.


                Nonpareil Liqueur.
    Take a ripe pine-apple, pare it, and bruise it in
a mortar add one and a half dozen of large ripe
            ;


yellow plums, and one dozen jargonelle pears
quartered.   To every four pounds of fruit add six
pounds of loaf sugar and three pints of water.
Boil these ingredients for three-quarters of an hour,
skimming as the scum rises.       Pour into a jar to
get cold, then add a couple of bottles of hock
or some Rhenish wine, and a liqueur glass of
brandy let this stand for six weeks, then pass it
        ;



through a jelly bag and it is ready.


                      Noyeau.
    Blanch and pound three ounces of peach kernels
put them into a jar, cover them with a quart of
brandy, and leave them in a warm place for three
days, shaking them frequently.   Add a pound of
powdered sugar and sifted sugar candy, and let all
stand several hours longer strain and bottle for
                             ;


use.

                  Noyeau (Pink).
    To a quart of spirits of wine add fifteen drops
of essential oil of bitter almonds, three drops of oil
of roses, four drops of oil of aniseed, and one drop
of tincture of vanilla.    Shake well, and then add
                                               E
50                DRINKS A LA MODE
one quart of syrup (see Creme de Citron) and
enough pink colouring matter to give it a delicate
colour. Filter and bottle for use.


                    Orange Bitters.
     Simple syrup one gallon, essence of orange one
ounce.
                    Orange Brandy.
    Take the thin rinds of six Seville oranges, place
them in a jar, and then pour over the strained juice
of them and two quarts of good brandy, and let
them infuse for three weeks filter the liquid when
                                   ;



clear, and put in with a pound and a quarter of loaf
sugar, and stir two or three times a day till the
sugar is dissolved strain again and bottle.
                     ;




                    Orange Brandy.
                          Another Way.

     Take the rinds of three lemons and of eight
Seville oranges, peeled very thin, and three pounds
of pounded sugar candy.      Steep the whole in a
gallon of brandy for four days and nights, stirring
it frequently, and run it through filtering-paper to

clear it.
                         Orange Gin.
     Take   the thin rind of three Seville oranges
and one lemon, and put them into a stone jar with a
pint and a half of gin, three-quarters of a pound of
crushed barley sugar, and the strained juice of the
fruit ;cover the jar closely, and leave it for three
or four weeks, shaking it up every now and then     ;



strain the liquor into bottles and cork securely.
                     LIQUEURS                       51



                   Orange Wine.
    To every ten Seville oranges put three pounds
of loaf sugar place the required quantity in a per-
             ;



fectly clean and dry cask  ;
                             squeeze the juice from
the oranges, and put the pulp into a large pan and
pour over it a gallon of water, and let it stand for
twenty-four hours, then strain into the cask and
leave for a week.

                    Peppermint.
    To one gallon of simple syrup add six ounces
of essence of peppermint.


                  Pousse I'Amour.
   A teaspoonful of Kirschwasser, a teaspoonful
of cura^oa, and half a teaspoonful of chartreuse.


                 Raspberry Liqueur.
   One   gallon of simple syrup, four ounces of
essence of raspberry, one ounce of tartaric acid,
one-eighth of an ounce of caramel, one-eighth of an
ounce of carmine.

                 Raspberry Whisky.
   Take four and a half quarts of raspberries, pick
them, and boil them for twenty minutes with three-
quarters of a pound of best loaf sugar  ; skim con-
stantly  ; strain the liquor through a tammy and
mix it with half a gallon of old Scotch whisky and
a gill of strained lemon-juice.  Put it into a clean
                                            E 2
52                   DRINKS A LA MODE
             >{




jar upon half an ounce of cloves, a small piece of
cinnamon, and an ounce of crushed sugar candy                       ;


      well together, put on the cover, and resin all
stir all
over   ;   let    the jar stand for six      months       in a   warm
cellar, then strain and        filter till   perfectly clear      and
bright.

                             Rosolio.
                            Italian Drink.


    Put into a pint of liquid sunshine rum the peel
of four oranges, and put it into a tightly corked
bottle.   After eight days put four lemons cut in
slices into half a pint of water, which must boil
over the fire for a quarter of an hour then take      ;



out the lemons and pour the boiling liquid into a
basin into which two ounces of white lump sugar
has been put, and let it dissolve, when it will have
become a rich syrup, to which, when it cools, the
rum must be added. Mix well and filter through
fine filtering-paper.


                       Sportsman's Drink.
    Boil half an ounce of hops and half an ounce of
bruised ginger in a gallon and a half of water
for twenty-five minutes add a pound of best brown
                                ;


sugar, and boil ten minutes more, then strain and
bottle while hot.   It will be ready for drinking
when cold. Keep in a cool place.

                     Usquebaugh Cordial.
    Stone a pound of the best raisins, rub the zest
of an orange on some pieces of loaf sugar bruise             ;


the raisins in a mortar with a quarter of an ounce
                    LIQUEURS                  53

each of cloves and cardamoms and a grated nut-
meg. Place these in a jar, and cover them with
half a gallon of French brandy ;add the oranged
sugar and half a pound of brown sugar candy and
a few drops of tincture of saffron. Stir the jar
every day for a fortnight.


                Vauxhall Nectar.
   Dissolve one scruple of benjamin in a pint of
good rum.
54           DRINKS A LA MODE




                  SYRUPS.

                   Ambrosia.
Equal parts of vanilla and strawberry syrup.

                 Apple Syrup.
    Cut up two dozen apples into quarters, pound
them in a mortar, and add enough water to make
three quarts of juice strain and add one gallon
                     ;



of simple syrup, bring to the boil, then take     it

quickly, leave it to get cold, and then bottle.


               Blackberry Syrup.
   To two quarts of blackberry juice add one
quart of water and one gallon of simple syrup      ;


bring to the boil, and when cold bottle.


               Elderberry Syrup.
    Pick and bruise two quarts of elderberries     ;


strain,and to every pint of juice add a pint of
water, and to every pint of this add one pound of
sugar dissolved by heat then add a quarter of an
                         ;



ounce of whole allspice to every pint let it just
                                      ;
                           SYRUPS                          55

come to the boil, then strain, and when cold bottle.
This is very good in the winter by adding boiling
water to a small glass of syrup.

                          Elderette.

   Plain syrup one gallon, four ounces of elder-
berry, a quarter of anounce of essence of spice,
one ounce of nubine.

                      Fig Syrup.
    Take twelve ripe figs, cut into quarters add       ;



four sharp apples, also cut into quarters  add to  ;



these one gallon of boiling water and boil for
twenty minutes   ;then strain, and add one pound
of sugar to every pint of juice just bring to the
                                           ;


boil, and when cold bottle.


             French Plum Syrup.
    Put two pounds of French plums into a mortar,
pound them with the shells and kernels, and add
by degrees one gallon of water boil this mixture
                                               ;


for twenty minutes, then strain add three-quarters
                                       ;


of a pound of sugar to every pint of juice, bring to
the boil, and when cold bottle.


                          Imperial.

   Equal parts of raspberry and orange syrups.

            Imperial        Lemon Syrup.
   Take the peel of six lemons, cut very thin, and
two or three cloves   ;
                           put these into a quart of boil-
56              DRINKS A LA MODE
ing water, let it stand by the fire for two or three
hours, then add half a pint of lemon juice and a
littleorange-flower water    strain, and add three
                              ;


quarts of simple syrup and bottle.



               Imperial Orange Syrup.

     Proceed as for lemon syrup, substituting oranges
for lemons and adding the orange-flower water.




                      Imperial Syrup.

    Put to a gallon of boiling water two ounces of
cream of tartar, two ounces of lemon peel and
juice boil for five minutes then add four pounds
         ;                        ;


of sugar and one pound of honey bring to the
                                          ;


boil, then strain ;when cold add a gill of ratafia,
then bottle.


                      Lemon Syrup.
   To every quart of juice add one gallon of
                         '




simple syrup, bring to the boil, and when cold
bottle.


               Morella Cherry Syrup.

    Take six pounds of morella cherries, free them
from the stalks into a mortar, and pound together
with the shells and kernels     add three pints of
                                      ;


water by degrees, then strain through a bag, and
to every pint of juice add one pound of loaf sugar  ;



bring to the boil, and when cold bottle.
                       SYRUPS                   SI



                 Morella Syrup.
   Take two pounds of morella cherries, pound
them in a mortar strain, and add one pint of
                   ;


water to every pint of juice, and to three quarts
of this juice add one gallon of simple syrup bring
                                           ;


to the boil, and when cold bottle.



                Mulberry Syrup.
    To every pound of mulberries put one pint of
water, boil for five minutes, then strain, and to
every pint of juice put one pound of sugar and
bring to the boil again, and when cold bottle.
A  quarter of an ounce of citric acid to every two
ounces of fruit improves it greatly.


                 Nectar Syrup.
   Take six pints of vanilla syrup and one pint
each of pine-apple, lemon, and raspberry syrups  ;


mix together and then bottle.


                 Nectar Syrup.
                       Soyer's.

     Take eight sweet oranges and four lemons    ;


cut them into slices, removing the pips, and pour
over them one gallon of boiling water let it stand
                                      ;


till cold, then strain, and to every pint of juice

add one pound of loaf sugar. Bring to the boil,
then add a little essence of rose, and when cold
bottle.
58           DRINKS A LA MODE

                   Noyeau Syrup.
   Simple syrup one gallon, essence of noyeau
one ounce and a half.


                   Orange Syrup.
    Orange juice one quart, a tablespoonful of
orange-flower water, one gallon of simple syrup          ;


bring to the boil, and when cold bottle.


                    Peach Syrup.
    Take out the stones from some peaches crush      ;



them and remove the kernels pound these with the
                             ;


peaches, and to every pound of pulp put half a
pint of water then strain, and to every three quarts
              ;



of juice put one gallon of simple syrup, bring to
boil, and when cold bottle.



                    Pear Syrup.
     Pare a quantity of juicy pears put one pint of
                                             ;


water to every pound of pears pound in a mortar
                                 ;



till quite fine
              ;
                strain, and to every three quarts of
juice add one gallon of syrup     bring to the boil,
                                     ;


and when cold bottle.

                  Pine-Apple Syrup.
    Pare and pound a pine-apple add to the pulp
                                         ;



one quart of water, and to every three pints of
juice add half a gallon of simple syrup bring to ;


the boil, and when cold bottle.
                           SYRUPS                  59



                        Quince Syrup.
   Take and cut up six pounds of apples just as
they are without peeling them, and put them in a
mortar and pound very fine then add gradually a
                                  ;



quart and a half of water.   Mix well and strain
through a sieve add a quarter of an ounce of tartaric
                   ;



acid to every six pounds of fruit, and one pound
of sugar to every pint boil, and when cold bottle.
                            ;




                       Raspberry Syrup.
    Take three quarts of juice and one gallon of
simple syrup   bring to the boil, and when cold
               ;



bottle.

                        Rhubarb Syrup.
    Bruise some rhubarb stalks, and to every pound
of the fruit add one quart of water let it stand for
                                          ;



two days, then strain and press, and to every pint
of juice add one pound of sugar bring to the boil,
                                      ;


and when cold bottle.


                        Sherbet Syrup.
   Vanilla syrup two quarts, three pints of pine-
apple syrup, the same of orange syrup mix well;


and bottle.

                       Strawberry Syrup.
    To three quarts of strawberry juice and an
equal quantity of water, add one gallon of simple
syrup bring to the boil, and when cold bottle.
          ;
6o           DRINKS A LA MODE

                  Zante Syrup.
    Take four pounds of currants, wash and pick
them free from stalks and pips, pound them in a
mortar, and add gradually one gallon of water.
Boil on the fire for twenty minutes, then stram, and
to every pint of juice add three-quarters of a pound
of sugar bring to the boil, and when cold bottle.
        ;


Black currant syrup is treated in the same way.
                              6i




              INVALID DRINKS,

                   Acidulated Alkali.
Grate the rind of a couple of lemons upon four
ounces of castor sugar, pound and mix it with two
ounces of tartaric acid and the same quantum of
bicarbonate of soda bottle and cork it closely, and
                          ;



when required stir a teaspoonful quickly into half
a tumblerful of water and drink during efferves-
cence.

                   Arrow-Root Gruel.
   Take a dessertspoonful of arrow-root and mix
itwith sufficient cold water to form a thin paste  ;



then put it into boiling water or boiling milk and
add salt, sugar, and lemon juice.


                        Barley Water.
    Put one large tablespoonful of pearl barley into
two quarts of cold water in a saucepan and bring
to the boil  squeeze the juice of two good lemons
              ;


into a jug with white sugar to taste, pour upon this
through a strainer the boiling barley water and let
it   stand till cold.
62                  DRINKS A LA MODE

                    Barley Water (Green).
                        For Tennis Parties.

      Take a small teacup of pearl barley, wash it in
cold water, and place it in a jug peel a lemon;


vtry thin (no white) and put the peel in the barley
(no juice)   take three or four lumps of sugar and
                ;


put in pour on three pints of boiling water and
            ;


let it stand till cold pour off gently, and it ought
                             ;


to be a pale greenish colour.


                        Beef Extract.
                             Baron Liebig.

    Take a pound of good juicy beef from which
all the skin and fat have been cut away chop it up;


like sausage meat     mix it thoroughly with a pint
                         ;



of cold water    place it on the side of the stove to
                    ;


heat very slowly^ and give an occasional stir.     It
may stand two or three hours before it is allowed
to simmer, and will then require but fifteen minutes
of gentle boiling.   Salt should be added when the
boiling commences.      When the extract is thus far
prepared it may be poured from the meat into a
basin and allowed to stand till any particles of fat
on the surface can be skimmed off, and the sedi-
ment has subsided and left the soup quite clear,
when it may be poured off gently, heated in a clean
saucepan, and served.

                             Beef Tea.
                                 Cassell.


   Allow two pounds of lean meat to one quart of
water put it into a jar and place it in a pan of
        ;
                   INVALID DRINKS                   63

boiling water  ; the meat should be well cut up and
the top of the jar secured, so that no water may
enter ; boil gently for four or five hours, strain, and
squeeze out all the tea this may be flavoured with
                         ;



onion, Sz:c.  This will make a pint of tea.

                       Caudle.
   Make a pint of oatmeal gruel, let it boil, then
stir into it very gradually the yolk of an   egg mixed
with a little cold water   add a glass of port, a
                             ;



little grated nutmeg, and four lumps of sugar.



                    Caudle Brown.
                      Old Fashion.

    Make some oatmeal gruel and add the thin
rind of a lemon, a sprinkle of mace, a little
grated ginger, and a tablespoonful of brown sugar     ;



all must boil together, when it must be strained
and a pint of ale or porter added to it.

                   Curds and Whey.
                      Italian Recipe.

    Take several of the rough coats that line the
gizzards of turkeys and fowls, cleanse from the dirt,
rub well with salt, and hang them up to dry when;


required for use break off some of the skin, pour
boiHng water on, digest for eight or nine hours, and
use the same as rennet,


                    Lait de Poule.
    Mix the yolks of a couple of eggs with two
ounces of powdered sugar, to which put a table-
64             DRINKS A LA MODE
spoonful of orange-flower water beat it up well,
                                   ;



and add to it half a pint of boiling water.

                    Lamb's Wool.
    Mix in a saucepan one tablespoonful of oatmeal
with a pint of fresh milk let it stand for ten
                              ;



minutes, then place on the fire and allow it to
simmer gently, stirring continuously add a wine-
                                       ;



glassful of Sunshine rum, boil for a few seconds,
and drink whilst hot.

                       Rector.

     Beat the yolk of an egg with a teaspoonful of
spice which has macerated in syrup and the same
quantity of lemon syrup  fill up with boiling water,
                          ;



stirring quickly.


               White Wine Whey.
     Take half a pint of new milk, and whilst boiling
pour in at the moment two wineglassfuls of sherry,
which will form a curd which will in two or three
minutes settle at the bottom of the saucepan        ;


strain the whey from the curd and add sugar to
taste.
                                 65




    TEA, COFFEE, AND COCOA,

                      Cafe au Lait.

Make some strong clear coffee. Pour it into the
cup with an equal quantity of boiling milk, and
sweeten to taste.

                           Cafe Noir.

    This should be made exceedingly strong, and
should be made in the same way as breakfast
coffee, allowing a cupful of freshly-ground coffee
for every four cupfuls of boiling water  it should
                                             ;



be slightly sweetened, but no milk or cream taken
with it.

                           Chocolate.
                           Spanish Recipe.

   Break a piece of a cake of chocolate and let it
soak eight hours     milk then gradually warm it
                      in              ;


up and   mill   it  with a notched stick passed
                     all
through a hole in the lid of the chocolatiere then
                                                 ;



pour on a little boiling water, add some sugar, and
pour in some boiling milk with one hand slowly
and beat it to a froth with the other.
                                              F
66               DRINKS A LA MODE

                       Cocoa.
     Put two teaspoonfuls to a breakfast cup, and
put the quantity required into an aluminium
saucepan, and mix it thoroughly with a little
warm milk place the saucepan on the fire, and
             ;


add half a pint of cold water for two teaspoonfuls
of cocoa, and let it boil up half-fill the cups with
                             ;


this, and then add hot milk and a lump of sugar.
Van Houten's cocoa is, I consider, the best cocoa.

                      Coffee.
                     French Way.

     Pour a pint of boiling water upon two and
a half ounces of freshly-ground coffee.       Put the
lid on the coffee-pot and place it on the hob to
simmer gently without boiling. Stir it occasionally,
and at the end of two hours take it off the fire and
let it stand for a quarter of an hour to clear.


                       Coffee.
                     Turkish Way.

    In Turkey a small conical saucepan with a
long handle, and calculated to hold about two
table-spoonfuls of water, is used. The fresh roasted
berry is pounded, not ground, and about a dessert-
spoonful is put into the little boiler it is then
                                        ;



nearly filled with water and thrust among the
embers.   A few seconds suffice to make it boil,
and the decoction, grounds and all, is poured out
into a small cup, which fits into a brass socket,
much like the cup of an acorn, and holding the
china cup as that does the acorn itself.
                   TEA, COFFEE, AND COCOA                        67



                        Coffee (To Make).
                                Soyer.

       Warm the freshly-ground coffee mixed with a
soupqon of celery over the fire, stirring it till quite
hot.   Then pour boiling water on it, and let it
stand for ten minutes, and serve with milk and
sugar.   Quantities        —
                     quarter of coffee and quarter-
ounce of chicory for every three quarts of water.


                        Coffee (To Make).
                             Another Way.

       Buy the best coffee and               grind it to the con-
sistency of ordinary corn meal.      Into a French
tea-pot put an ounce of coffee for every person.
One pound of coffee will make sixteen cups. As
soon as the water in the tea-kettle begins to boil,
moisten the coffee gently, and leave it to soak and
swell for three minutes.   Then add a little more
water, continue to add water till you have obtained
not more than a large coffee-cupful of the extract.
If carefully done the entire virtue of the coffee
will be in the cupful of liquor at the end of five
minutes.   For four persons use a quart of pure
milk and have it boiling hot heat the coffee-cups
                                         ;



by pouring hot water into them. Now divide the
coffee into the cups        —  each one should be a quarter
full   ;   fill   up with boiling milk.

                          Frozen Coffee.
    Take a quart of clarified sugar and boil it in a
pint of water till it becomes a syrup, when pour it
                                                           F 2
68            DRINKS A LA MODE
over a quarter of a pound of mixed coffee, such as
Java and Mocha then strain through muslin, and
                  ;



add the whites of two eggs, and freeze. Serve
with whipped cream.


                          Iced Coffee.
    Make a quart of strong coffee (the Distil essence
of coffee is best), about a bottleful to a quart of
boiling water. Add three table-spoonfuls of castor
sugar and a pint of cream.       It should be made
eight hours before it is required.    Put into a re-
frigerator, and twenty minutes before serving put
in a big lump of ice.


                          Lait Sucr^.

     Boil a quarter of a pound of sugar in a pint of
milk with one sliced lemon.


                 Tea (To Make).
    One large teaspoonful for each of the company
is the proper allowance in making tea, and one for
the pot.   Before making the tea pour half a pint
of boiling water into the tea-pot, and let it stand
for two minutes.     Pour it out, and immediately
put in the tea. Close the lid, and let it remain for
a minute to heat then pour upon it half a pint of
                      ;



boiling water.   Let it stand for three minutes.
Add sufficient boiling water to fill the tea-pot, and
the tea will be ready to use.   Unless the water is
really boiling w^hen it is put upon the tea there
will be no good tea.   Green tea requires to stand
a minute or two longer than black tea.
              TEA, COFFEE, AND COCOA              69


                     Tea (To Make).
                       Dr. Kitchener.

    All the necessary water should be poured in at
once, as it spoils it to have a second drawing.


                    Tea (To Make).
                        Another Way.

     The water should be fresh boiled. Scald the
tea-pot and  empty it then put in as much water
                          ;



as necessary for the first cups. Put the tea on it,
and close the lid as quickly as possible. Let it
stand three minutes and a half, or if the quantity
be  large, four minutes.  Then fill the cups. By
this means the aroma is preserved instead of
escaping with the steam, as it does when the
water is poured on the tea.

                    Tea (To Make).
                        Another Way.

    Always heat the tea-pot before putting in the
tea by standing it over hot water.   A teaspoonful
of tea for each person and one over is the usual
allowance, and then make sure the water boils,
and the moment it boils pour it over the tea, and
then let it stand for six minutes (neither more nor
less) to draw.

                    Tea (To Make).
                         Debuisson.

    Put the tea into a kettle with cold water,
cover it close, set it on the fire, and make it very
nearly, but not quite, boil   then take it from the
                                ;


fire ;   when the leaves sink it is ready.
70           DRINKS A LA MODE

                   Green Tea.
    Weak green tea with a little sugar and lemon-
juice in it and no milk is a very refreshing drink
in cases of fever, either taken hot or cold.



             Iced Tea and Lemon.
                    Russian Recipe.

   -'Make tea in the usual fashion, and after letting
it stand for ten minutes sugar it slightly, and
pour over the leaves, and let it stand in the re-
frigerator for eight hours. Serve it in punchbowls,
in which slices of lemon and lumps of ice should
be put.    In ladling it out each person should
receive a piece of lemon and a piece of ice.


To Make Tea for Garden Parties, Balls, &c.
    Put the tea into a large pot or urn or kettle,
and pour BOILING water on it let it stand five
                                      ;



minutes, then pour it off into a large urn or tea-
pot without the leaves.
                           71




          WINES AND SPIRITS.
               INTRODUCTION.
The origin of wine is of such ancient date that no
one seems to be able to put a date to it. In fabu-
lous history we know that Bacchus, the rosy god
of wine, is said to have planted the first vineyards.
We    find vineyards in Egypt, Greece, and Italy.
At a very early date in the Bible we read of wine
and drunkenness in the Book of Genesis, for it
says, *
        Noah began to be a husbandman and he
planted a vineyard and he drank of the wine and
was drunken.' In Italy we find it existed in the
time of Romulus (717 B.C.). In 818 we find the
plant in the South of France, and in the sixth
century, so says Mr. Denman, who seems to have
gone very deeply into the subject of wine, it was
acclimatised in Bretagne, Normandy, and Picardy     ;


in the middle ages in Alsace and Lorraine and the
North of Germany.

           Manufacture of Wine.
                         Clarets

are manufactured by picking the grapes after
they are gathered    ;all that are likely to in-
jure the quality of the wine being carefully re-
72             DRINKS A LA MODE
moved.    A principal vat of the best fruit, which is
called cuve-mere^  is then made, into which, after

packing, the workmen continue to put the best
grapes without their stalks and without treading
them, till they are from fifteen to twenty inches
deep, after which they throw about two gallons of
old cognac upon them, and then another bed of
picked grapes, followed by two gallons more of
brandy, and so on till the vat is full. About four
gallons of spirit of wine is then added for a wine-
vat from thirty to thirty-six tuns.   When there is
a deficiency of saccharine matter in the grapes
starch-sugar is sometimes added.      The cuve-viere
when filled is closed and well covered with blankets
to prevent the entrance of air, and is left in this
state for about a month.     A small cock or tap is
placed in the side of the vat at about a third of its
depth from the bottom, in order to allow of the
progress of fermentation being observed, and to
enable the manufacturer to know when the wine,
having become cool and sufficiently clear, may be
racked off and put into casks.
     While the cuve-mere is at work the ordinary
vintage goes on as follows The grapes are trodden
                             :




or acted on by machinery in the press and put
with their stalks into the vats then the fermenta-
                                 ;


tion takes place naturally.       About a foot of the
upper part of the vat is not filled, in order to leave
space for the fermentation, which in very mature
vintages sometimes occasions an overflow of these
limits.    The term chapeau is applied to the floating
mass of stalks lightly covered, and in from a week
to a fortnight the wine is ready for being drawn
off, for if it is left upon the lees (marre) or in con-
tact with its crust (chapeau) it would take the dis-
               WINES AND SPIRITS                   73

 agreeable taste of the stalks.    The casks being
    are left unbunged for about a week, the bung-
 full
hole being in the meantime covered with a brick
or piece of wood.     They are filled up every two
days, and after bunging, at least once a week, till
the wine is in a state to allow the cask to rest with
 the bung-hole at the side, which is not till after a
 year and a half
     White wines are made in a somewhat different
 manner. The grapes are not, as in red wine, put
 into the vat to ferment, but after the removal of
the stalks they are trodden, and when taken from
the press the juice, skins, and seeds are put into
casks, in which the fermentation takes place and
wine is formed. When the fermentation has ceased
the wine is racked off from the barrels into smaller
casks, and any loss that subsequently occurs from
evaporation must be replaced once or twice a week.
    Treading the grapes still prevails in many
countries, but it is being gradually displaced by
various mechanical appliances.    In some parts of
France two wooden cylinders turning in opposite
directions are employed to crush the fruit.

                      Sherry.
    The best white wines are grown in the southern
districts of SanLucar and Xeres de la Frontera, in
the province of Seville.
    The driest sherry is Amontillado, which is
remarkable for its delicacy and high flavour.
Montilla is grown near Cordova, and Manzanilla is
another fine sherry, x^ll these are fine dry, pure
wines.
    Madeira is the produce of the island of that
name.
74            DRINKS A LA MODE

                          Port.

     This wine   is   produced    in    the district of the
Cima de Douro, in Portugal.            Oswald Crawford, in
his Consular Commercial Report, writes        The   :
                                                        '




wine-making is in all essential particulars very
cautiously and skilfully performed. The over-ripe
grapes are picked out and the best are thrown into
a large stone-built lager or vat.   Into this as many
men as can easily find room enter and tread out
the juice, when it is allowed to stand till a thorough
fermentation has taken place then a small portion
                                   ;


of brandy is added to prevent the wine from run-
ning into an excessive fermentation and so losing
much of its saccharine matter.'
     The colour of port wine varies much sometimes
                                               ;



it is dark red or else a deep tawny brown.



                       Champagne
is produced in the vineyards in the departments

of Seine et-Marne, Aube, Yonne, Haute-Saone, and
Ardennes. There are white and red champagnes.
The white is either sparkling or still. Sparkling
(Mousseux) champagne is the result of a peculiar
treatment during fermentation. The best varieties
of this wine are produced at Rheims and Epernay.
Among the white champagnes of the first class the
best are those of Sillery, which are of a fine amber
hue, dry, spirituous, and possessing a superior
bouquet.

                      Age of Wine.
     Wines differ considerably in their power of en-
durance and the requisite time to bring them to
                WINES AND SPIRITS                   75

perfection.   Mere age is by no means a proof of
goodness or quality, though a certain time in bottle is
essential for developing their flavour and character.
Some wines will keep well for very lengthened
periods, but any excess of age is always at the
expense of some of the aroma and vinous pro-
perties.
    Effervescing wines usually retain their quality
only to a limited period most French wines are
                            ;



also affected by time and lose much of their
original character.  Clarets are best when about
ten years old.   Spanish wines should be kept long,
as a good age is needed to bring out their qualities
and to secure mellowness.
    Port and sherry are apt to undergo in time a
considerable change in colour and flavour.
    Liqueur white wines, such as Madeira or sherry,
should be decanted a few hours before dinner.
    Port should be brought into a warm room for
a few hours before decanting, but the cork should
not be drawn long before it is wanted.      Pure or
unbrandied wines should remain unopened till
called for.


                Blending of Wine.
    Mr. James Denman, in his admirable work,
'
 The Vine and its Culture,' writes that to distin-
                                      '




guish wine that is mixed or blended requires much
experience, yet it would not always be possible to
drink certain wines unless they were softened by
the admixture with others of a kindlier character,
although in all other respects they may be excel-
lent.
    *
        Hermitage in France is often added to claret
76                 DRINKS A LA MODE
so as to         strengthen       the   product of   a   weaker
vintage.
    The Mendings practised by French merchants
      '




have not for their object an imitation of the leading
growths of their vineyards, but simply to correct
defects in particular samples, or to obtain by this
means a quality that will suit the consumer at a
price     less   onerous than that demanded              for the
finest quality.
    'The difference between good and genuine
high-class wines and those so mixed is sometimes
such as to make the latter preferred by those who
judge from primary and transient impressions.'
    In all good wine tartar precipitates itself in the
form of small crystals it does not render it cloudy
                              ;



nor does it impart any bad taste, but helps to
sustain it in good condition.



                    The Care of Wine.
   Wines of strength intended to mellow in the
wood should be put into the largest barrels, but
those of delicate and light growth should be stored
in smaller vessels, and should be bottled as soon
as they attain a suitable condition, for they do not
gain anything by remaining in the cask.
    The preservation and amelioration of wine in
bottle depends upon its maturity in the wood and
its freedom from all mucilaginous impurities.
    The requisite time to bring them to their perfect
maturity is proportionate to the needed time for
their complete development.      When wines cease
to deposit, they cease to improve and begin to
deteriorate.       Those that       are in perfection    at the
              WINES AND SPIRITS                      77

end of two years go off at five or six, while those
which require ten or twelve to mature will keep
forty or fifty years.
    White wines are     generally ripe for     bottling
earlier than red.
    Rhine wines can remain       in   cask   for   many
years.
   First-rate Burgundies should be bottled one
year after the vintage, whilst the higher-coloured
and more generous sorts are better retained in the
wood four or five years.
   The light sort of French wines are seldom good
when more than five years old.
   Madeira and Malaga may endure perhaps fifty
or sixty years.
    Port wine can never, without the addition of a
considerable quantity of brandy, be preserved in
perfection for many years, as a long time is requi-
site to subdue and mingle such an ardent spirit
into the body of the wine to conceal its fiery
potency.
    It is well known that wines stored in magnums
preserve a much better quality than those kept in
smaller bottles.   Bottled wines, even if well corked,
are subject to the action of external causes, and
every possible care should be taken to prevent the
access of air through the cork.    If sealed, the glass
of the bottle should be coated with wax.         When
bottled, it should be binned as soon as possible, and
laid so that the wine may come in contact with
the cork and cause the latter to swell.
    The wine cellar should be kept clean, dry, and
at as even a temperature as possible     —  about 60°.
A  gas jet should be in every wine cellar, as by that
means the temperature can be perfectly regulated.
78             DRINKS A LA MODE
   The bins should be built so that a certain
number of bottles will fit into each tier, without
having to use blocks.
     The strong wrought-iron wine bins are first-rate
to have in a cellar, as they are made so that there
is a place for every bottle.  They are made to any
size and height, and to hold any quantity, and they
look well. On each bin a card should be placed,
giving the name and date of the wine.     Little zinc
labels are best, written with white ink.
     Fine wines are exceedingly sensitive. Thunder,
the rolling of heavy bodies over the cellar, will
often renew fermentation. Nothing should be ever
                          —
kept in the wine cellar that is to say, edible as  —
such things are apt to impart a bad flavour or
generate acidity. Care should be taken to store
wine as far as possible from sewers and drains, as
in wet weather the wine would be influenced by
them and acetous fermentation promoted. Spark-
ling wines should be kept in the coolest part of the
cellar, with the cork downwards.




                  To Fine Wine.
     Dissolve one ounce of isinglass in a pint of
boiling liquid, and let   it get cold, when it will be

jellied.   Whisk some of this into a froth with a
little of the wine to be fined, and stir it up well into
the wine in the cask, and bung it up tightly.
     This is for white wines, and the wine ought to
be bright and fine in twelve days.
     For red wines, beat up into a froth from fifteen
to twenty eggs and mix into the wine, and then
into the cask, as for the white wines.
                  WINES AND SPIRITS                     79



                  Bottling of Wines.
   The        bottling   of   wine   is   a very important
matter, as so much depends upon it as to the finest
qualities of different wines.     Wine should never be
bottled till it is still, clear, and translucent. It is
most material to have clean, dry bottles and sound
corks.    The necessary utensils for bottling are a
bottling boot, apron, cork squeezer, a driving mallet
of about a pound and a half in weight, and a pan
with a little of the wine in for dipping the corks in.
The corks must be driven in straight, leaving a
space only of an inch between the wine and cork
in the neck of the bottle.



                  Decanting of Wine.
    It   isbest always to decant w^ine through a
strainer  ;and for port always use fine cambric in
the strainer, which should always be taken out of
the strainer and hung up to keep it fresh, or it
would get musty and impart a bad flavour to the
wine.

               To Ice Wines and Cups.
   It is only necessary to put the bottles or jug in
the refrigerator, as the temperature can be regulated
by the length of time it remains, but on first taking
the cooled or iced liquid from the refrigerator, a
wet cloth, wrung out in salt and water, should be
wrapped round the bottle or jug, and it will then
keep cool till required. There are now sold de-
canters for champagne which have an ice-well in
them, which keeps the champagne deliciously cool.
8o               DRINKS A LA MODE
             wine-warmers are capital things for
     Ritchie's
icing wines.  Cold salt and water can be put into
them instead of hot water, but to ice wine much
is a great mistake, as it takes away the aroma.

Sherry, hocks, moselles, and cups are the only wines
that should be iced.


                  Warming Wines.
    For warming wines such as port and claret,
which always require a little warming to enjoy
their aroma properly, there is nothing so good as
Ritchie's Patent Wine Warmer.       It brings claret
and port to a perfect heat for the table without the
risk of over-heating   ;
                               every bottle alike in tempera-
ture.   It isa tin can with a double lining, into
which hot water is poured, and the bottles are
placed in the centre.   It is made in different sizes
from one bottle to four. It is also good for cooling
champagne without wetting the bottles. Another
way of warming these wines is to dip them into
hot water for a few seconds after decanting, or
wrapping a hot cloth, wrung out in hot water, round
the decanter for a few minutes.


Terms used by Wine Tasters and Judges.
     Elegant, brilliant    :   these are applied to the pro-
duce of champagne.
    Bouquet is the odour emitted, and is perceptible
when the cork is drawn.
    Aroma is applied to their natural perfume and
flavour, or as imparted by the infusion of foreign
substances.
    Delicate applies to light wines.
                WINES AND SPIRITS                          8i


   Fin signifies wines of high         qualities, uniting
delicacy, age, and fragrance of flavour.
    Seve, the entire flavour of the wine        which      is

apparent on being swallowed, as it combines the
spirituous quality and aromatic particles which are
liberated and volatilized as soon as it meets the
warmth of the palate.
   Fmnent, when quickly affecting the head from
alcohol and not from carbonic gas.
    Montant, as applied to champagne if affecting
the head.
    Piquant, as applied to wines which are very
dry and also to those in which the tartrates pre-
dominate.
   Veloutd means wine of good colour and body,
smooth on the palate.
   Dur, when a liquid is overcharged with tartar
or tannin.
   Mou, wines that are viscid and flat.
    Vif, wine that is neither sweet nor dry, but
well flavoured, bright in colour, and light though
spirituous.
   Fort, applied to coarse, potent, and tonic wines.
    Vins dentrejnets are table wines taken between
the dishes before dessert.
   Plat signifies flat from want of innate strength.
    Vinades, small wines, made by adding water to
the must and pressing it      mostly consumed by
                                ;


labourers abroad.


     The Order of Serving of Wines.
    When      there   are   oysters   as hors   d'oeuvres,
chablis is the proper accompaniment.
    After soup, sherry or Madeira.
                                                   G   ,
82              DRINKS A LA MODE
   During the service of fish, sauterne, Barsac, or
hock should be handed.
   With the entrees the choice of champagne and
claret should be offered.
      With the second course, toasts, dressed vege-
tables, and savoury entremets, champagne. Moselle,
or sparkling hock.
    After the sweets, Amontillado sherry.
    After ices liqueurs are handed, and with the
dessert, port, claret, or Burgundy, and two kinds of
sherry, Amontillado and good old brown.
    With the coffee, liqueurs or champagne fin.


                  Wines of Spain.
     Sherry                    Valencia
     Amontillado               Benicarlo
     White Val de Pefias       Alicante
     Red Val de Pefias          Malaga
     Manzanilla                 Riojo (a red wine)
     Montilla                   Rota Tent (Com-
     Old Solera                   munion wine)
     Vino de Pasto              Paraxette
     Pando Natural Solera
    Sherries are generally known by the names of
the shippers. Domecq, Gonzales, Dubosco, Cozens,
Dixon, Pemartins, Romano are the most cele-
brated.
                 Wines     of Portugal.

      The best wines are shipped by     :




     Cockburn                   Martinez
     Offiey                     Croft
     Dow                        Warre
                WINES AND SPIRITS                    83

  Haut Rooper                 Rebello and Valenti
  Holdsworth                  Fonseca
  Graham                      Sandeman
  Kophes

   Calcavella and Biicellas are also wines of Por-
tugal, and Figueras is also a port wine.



                 Wines of France.
                 Bordeaux     Clarets.

  Medoc                       Chateau Listrac
  Boiirg                      Chateau d'Issan
  St. Estephe                 Batailley
  Cantenac                    Malescot
  Pauillac                    Leoville
  Lafite                      Latour
  Margaux                     St.Emilion
  Chateau Larose              Pichon Longueville
  Chateau Giscours            Chateau La Lagune
  Chateau Talbot              Chateau Montrose
  St. Julien                  Chateau Leoville
  Mouton Rothschild                 Lascases


               From Pyrenees Orientales,
                      Roussillon.


                      Burgundy.
  Macon                        Romance Conti
   Beaune                      Vol nay
   Beaujolais                  Pommards
   Corton                      Nuits
                                               G 2
84               DRINKS A LA MODE
     Chambertin                Chablis, white
     Clos Vougeot              Moutonne
     Hermitage, red            Meursault
     Mercurey                  Montrachet
     Mazey

                  Sparkling Burgundies.

     White St. Peray           Sauterne
     Red Nuits                 Haut Sauterne
     Volnay                    Chateau Yquem
     Hermitage, white            Barsac
     Sauternes                 Chateau Bienssac
     Vin de Grave


                       Champagnes.

     Achille Morat             Lemorne
     Ayala                     Lima Fils
     Boll                      Lemoine Monobrut
     Bollinger                 Moet et Chandon
     Bouzy                     Montebello, Due de
     Camuset, Jules            Mumm, G. H.
     Cliquot, Veuve            Perinet
     Delbeck                   Perrier Jouet    •




     Deutz and     Gelder-     Piper
       mann                    Pol Roper
     Duminy                    Revel, Jules
     Giesler                   Roederer
     Hiedsieck Monopole        Ruinart Pere et Fils
     Irroy, Carte d'Or         Veuve Monnier
     Krug                      Wachter Royal
     Lanson                      Charter
              WINES AND SPIRITS                   85



   Wines of Germany and the Rhine.
                    Hocks.
Niersteiner                  Claus Johannesberg
Erbach                       Geisenheim
Rudesheimer                  Steinwein
Grafenberger                 Oppenheim
Rauenthalberg                Laubenheim
Johannesberg                 Hattenheim
Hockheimer                   Asmannshauser     (red
Rauenthal Auslese              hock)
Liebfraumilch


Wines of Germany, Hungary, and Austria.
Moselle                  I
                             Berneaslet
Zeltingen                    Josephshofer
Nonpareil                    Grlinhauser
Scharzberg                   Brauneberg

Buda                         Eger
Szegszard                    Bakator
Menes                        Badatson
Paulis                       Neszemely
Tokay                        Palank
Luttenberger (Austria)       Vilagos
Steinberg                    Visonta
Voslauer, red, white,        Meslas
  and sparkling              Schomlauer
Carlowitz                    Ofner Rothwein
Oedenburger, white           Rustor Ausbruch
Muscat                       Liebfraumilch
Zamarodi                     Rustor Muscat
 Erlancor
86                DRINKS A LA MODE

                    Wines of Italy.
                          Red,
     Capri Bianco                   Passaretta
     Lambrusco                      Chianti
     Vermouti di Torino             Barbara
     Valtellina                     Barolo (Burgundy)
     Sassella                       Monte Fiascone
     Aleatico                       Montepulciano
     Genzallo                       Vino Greco
     Primitivo                      Lacrima Christi
     Castel Ricaldone               Chianti Gancia

                        Sardinia.
                          Red.
     N;asco                     I
                                    Giro

                          White,
     Felino                         Chianti Broglio
     Capri                          Lacrima Christi
     Bielli                         Vermouth
     Falerno

                        Sparkling.
     Aste Spumanto          \       Nebbiolo
     Vin Brut                       Malvasia

                    Wines of Greece.
                         Red
     Kephisia                       Santorin
     Como                           Thera
     Noussa                         Mont Hymet
     Lachryma Christi               Cyprus
     Vinsanto                       Noussa
               WINES AND SPIRITS                  87


                      White,
St. Elie                       Patros
Kephisia                       Mont Hymet

               Wines of Australia.
                      White,
Kerkton                        Highercombe Amber
Pinean                         Singleton White
Chasselas                        Hermitage
Tokay                          Crown Verdeilho
Reisting                       VSO Reisting Cabinet
Branston White                 Muscat of Alexandria
     Burgundy
                      Red,
Mosogiel                       Burgundy Ernubrand
Mataro                         Carbinet
Frontignac                     Tintara
Hermitage                      Kaludah
Sauvignon                      Mataro
Branston Cabinet               Auldana Ruby Cup

               Wines of California.
Zinfandel, red                 Fountain Grove
Hock                           Santa Rosa

                Wines of Madeira.
Madeira                        Sereial
San Antonio                    East India
Verdelho                       Grand Camera de
Old Malmsey                      Lobos
           '
'
    Boal
            DRINKS A LA MODE

               Wines of Sicily.
Virgin Marsala                     Red Muscatine
Terre Forte


            Wines of Asia Minor.
Boujas Sultana         |
                                   Boujas Muscat


                     Syria.

              Mount Lebanon, red

              Wines of Palestine.
Hebron                     |
                                   Jerusalem


         Wines of South Africa.
                     Red,
Drakenstein                |
                                   Paal Berg

                     White.
Hermitage              |
                                   Pontac


              Wines of Algeria.
Cotes Superieures              |
                                   Cheikh el Bled


                 Grand Canary.
                  Las Palmas
                WINES AND SPIRITS                           89



            Wines of Cape of Good Hope.
Drakenstein, white                 Stein
Drakenstein, red                   Constantia
Hanepoot


                       Liqueurs.
Curagoa, green, orange,            Orange Bitters
  white                            Angostura Bitters
Cherry Brandy (Her-                Parfait Amour
  ring's)                          Anisette
Cherry      Brandy    (Bur-        Benedictine Vermouth
  nett's)                          Trappistine, green and
Cherry Brandy (Grant's)              yellow
Anaconda                           Kummel Riga
Maraschino (DrioH)                 Peach Bitters
Chartreuse, yellow                 Elixir de Spa
Chartreuse, green                  King's Punch, Church-
Kirschwasser                            man
Abricotina                         Liqueur       Nectar,
Ginger Brandy                           Churchman
Orange Brandy                      Jamaica      do..   Church-
Milk Punch                              man
Noyeau                             Cerise do.. Churchman



                         Brandy,
when     originally   distilled,   is   clear   and
                                                  colour-
less, but   when placed in wooden casks        the spirit
dissolves out the colouring         matter of the wood,
and acquires a light sherry tint, which is deepened
by burnt sugar.
90                DRINKS A LA MODE
   The most famous brandy is distilled at Cognac,
in   France,from the choicest wines. The best
brandy is made from the grape called folk blanche.

                           Whisky.
     Whisky is a spirit made by distillation from
grain, roots, and other materials, the best being pro-
duced from barley after it has been malted.

                               Gin.

   Gin is an alcoholic drink distilled from malt or
from unmalted barley or other grain, and after-
wards rectified and flavoured.
   Schiedam or Hollands, the drink of the Dutch,
is   made by using juniper berries to flavour the
spirit made   from unmalted Riga rye              in    Holland,
and it is a rich, mellow, soft spirit.

                            Rum.
     Rum is chiefly made in the West Indies, and
is   manufactured from the            distillation of    the fer-
mented skimmings of the sugar boilers, with the
strainings and washings of the sugar works, add-
ing some raw cane-juice to impart the flavour. If
pure it is a very wholesome spirit. The best comes
from Jamaica and Santa Cruz. The Sunshine
rum sold by Burnett and Co. is a first-rate kind.

                           Arrack
is   made from         a juice    which exudes from the
cocoa-nut      tree.   There     is an inferior kind made
                 WINES AND SPIRITS                                91


from    rice.   When      arrack    is   old   it   is   extremely
good.     That which is imported from Java                  is   the
best.

                      Brands of Spirits.
                           Brandy.
        Hennessey's one, two, and three stars
        Martell's one, two, and three stars
        Hennessey's old liqueur
        Exshaw
        Courvoisier's one, two, and four diamond
        Champagne Fin (liqueur)

                           Whisky.
            Scotch.                            IrisJi.

  Glenlivat                         Roe's Old Dublin
  Old Islay                         Jameson and Co.
  Encore                             Kinahan
  Old Border Blend

                             Gin.

  Old Tom                            Plymouth Gin
  Hollands (DeKuypers)               Schiedam

                            Rum.
  Old Jamaica                        Liquid Sunshine
                 APPENDIX

    The Management of the Beer Cellar.
The principal point in the management of the beer
cellar is to ensure the beer being bright.  It should
always be kept in a cool place. A cask of beer
should always be ordered in a fortnight before it is
required, to give the beer time to settle, and it is a
good plan to have always two casks in at a time so
as to have one cask under the other.       The vent-
peg should always be kept in, as if not the beer is
apt to get flat and dead.
     The beer should never be drawn off till the last
drop runs level before tilting the cask, as it is
liable to cloud the remainder     ; the tilting beer-
stands should always be used, as the beer does not
get so shaken.
     Bottled beer should be laid on its side if had
in in any quantity until a week before it is required;



then it should be kept upright a short time before
it is opened.   If bottled ale is kept too warm it is
too frothy and seldom bright. If too cold^ it is sure
to be thick and muddled.
     In bottling beer the bottles should be very dry
and clean, and the corks should be especially dry    ;
                                                —

94                 DRINKS A LA MODE
the beer should be quite clear, and after bottling
let it remain uncorked    for a time.  In a small
work like this it will not be necessary to go into
the subject of brewing, as so few persons brew
nowadays.
   There are various kinds of beers         :




   Burton-on-Trent ales, Scotch ales (Edinburgh,
Prestonpans, and Belhaven are the best), bitter
ale,   India pale ale, porter, and stout.


                     Liquid Measures.

        30 drops                I    thimbleful
        60 drops                 1   teaspoonful
         I   dessert-spoonful   2 fluid drachms
         I   tablespoonful      \ ounce
         1   wineglassful       \ pint
         4 gills                I pint

         2 pints                I quart


         4 quarts               I gallon

        63 gallons               I   hogshead
        84 gallons               I   puncheon

       A Few Words on the History of Beer.
    The ancient history of beer has been traced
back by the Germans several thousand years in
authenticating Egyptian records of the times of the
Pharaohs. The most ancient kind of Egyptian
beer was brewed from barley and was called hag,'    '




and was imbibed freely by the Pharaohs as by the
common people. The most famous beer city was
Pelusium.   In Alexandria, too, great quantities of
beer was brewed.   Evidence on this point is given
by a papyrus manuscript, in which Professor Lauth
                   APPENDIX                     95

has recently found  the text of a temperance lec-
ture delivered by an Alexandrian professor named
Amenemann to Petaur, a student.
   '
      I have heard,' said  the professor, that you
                                        '




neglect your studies to go from beer-room to beer-
room.    Now I tell you whoever drinks beer is dis-
gusting.   The odour of beer drives people away
from you and callouses your soul. You delight,
then, to run against a wall and to break in a door.
                            —
Your reputation is notorious it is written on your
face.   Do not think of the cup any longer. Forget
the mug and the accursed hag as it is, you drum
                                ;



on your stomach daily, you stumble, you fall upon
your stomach.'
     In Strabo's time beer was called barley wine
and was drunk generally in Alexandria. The pre-
paration of barley beer to take the place of wine
was supposed to have been taught by Osiris. Several
recent German writers have a theory that beer
brewing was introduced into Europe from Egypt.
                      1                                11       1




                          INDEX.

Acidulated alkali, 6i               Brandy punch, 10
Ale berry, 39                       —   scaffa,   1

—  cup, 39                          —   skin, II
—  flip, 40                         — smash,       1

— ginger, 13                        Burgundy cup, 2
— mailed, 41
— posset, 40
Alkermes, 43                        CAFfi au lait, 65
Ambrosia, 54                        Cafe noir, 65
Aniseed liqueur, 43                 Cambridge milk punch, 18
Apple syrup, 54                     Cardinal, 27
— toddy, 26                         — orange,          7
Apricot brandy, 49                  Carraway liqueur, 45
Arrowroot gruel, 60                 Caudle, 63
                                    — broom, 63
                                    Chablis cup, 2
Bal punch, 18                       Champagne cup, 3
Badminton, I -2                     —   cider,
                                            3-4
—  Oxford, 2                        — punch, 18
Barley water, 60                    Cherry gin, 45
      green, 61                     Ching ching,            1

Beef extract, 33                    Chocolate, 65
— 33tea,                            Cider cup, 3-4
Beer, history   of,
                94                  Citronade, 12
—         management of
    cellar,               the, 93   Claret cup, 4-5
Bishop, 26-27                              Balaklava, 4
Black-currant gin, 49                       Cambridge, 4
Blackberry ratafia, 43              Claret punch, mulled, 29
— syrup, 54                         Cloves liqueur, 45
Bosom caresser, 1                   Cocoa, 66
Brandy, apricot, 49                 Coffee, to make, 66
—   cocktail, 10                    —  frozen, 66

                                                                    H
 98                         DRINKS A LA MODE
 Coffee seed, 67                      Gin sling, 50
 — Turkish        fashion, 67         Ginger ale,13
 Collins, John, 13                    — beer, 33-34
 — Tom, 16                            — brandy, 50
 Cooper, 40                           — 50
                                         gin,
 Corpse reviver, 12                   — wine, 57
 Cramhamball, 12                      Gingerade, 33
 Cranberry drink, 33                  Gingerette, 50
 Creme de citron, 45                  Goldwasser, 46
          girofle,     45
 —        rose,   46
       vanille, 46                    Hebe's cup, 6
 Crimean cup, 6                       History of beer, a few words on
 Cup, ale, 39                           the,
—   Burgundy, 2
                                               94
                                     Hock cup, 6
—          2
      chablis,                       Hot pot, 29
— champagne, 3                       Half-and-half, 40
—        4-5
      claret,
— Crimean, 6
— Hebe's, 6
— hock, 6                            Ice cream soda-water, 6
— Moselle,        7
                                     Iced coffee, 67
— mulberry, 7                        Imperial punch, 20
                                     — syrup, 55-56
— Saumur, 3                          — lemon syrup, 55
Curacoa, 46-47
Curds and whey, 63
                                     — orange syrup, 56

Devonshire drink, 27                 Jingle, 40
                                     John Collins, 14
                                     Julep, mint, 14
Eau sucree, 33
Egg flip, 27-28
— nog, 28                            Kaiser punch, 20
Elder vi^ine, 29
Elderberry syrup, 54                 Kentucky flip, 14
Elderette, 55                        King William's posset, 40
Eye opener, 13                       Kiimmel, Sam Ward, 16


Fig syrup, 55                        Lait de poule, 63
Floster, 13
                                     Lamb's wool, 34-35
French plum syrup, 55                Lemon squash, 14, 35
                                    — syrup, 56
Gin, cherry, 50                      Lemonade and Angostura, 36
— ginger, 50                         Liqueurs, list of, 89
— punch, 19-20                       Liquid measures, 94
                    1           5




                                    INDEX
Management of the beer cel-             Punch, Cambridge milk,
    lar,   93                           — a Cardinal, 22
                                              la
May nectar, 36                          — champagne, 18
Mead, 36                                —   gin,
                                              19
Measures, liquid, 94                    — a Frangaise, 22
                                              la
Milk punch, 21                          — imperial, 19
      a la Regence, 21                  — Kaiser, 19
Mint julep, 14                          — milk, 20
Morella cherry syrup, 56-57             — a Regence, 20
                                              la
Moselle cup, 7                          — Norfolk, 21
Mulberry cup, 7                         — pony, 21
Mulled £ile, 40-41                      — a Pape, 22
                                              la
                                        — a Romaine, 23
                                              la
                                        — Regent's,
                                        — rum, 24 25
Nectar, 36
— syrup, 57                             — Russian, 24
                                        — 25tea,
Negus, 29
— soda-water, 9                         — University, 25
Nightcap, 29-30
                                        — Yorkshire, 25
                                        Purl, 42
Norfolk punch, 21
Noyeau, 47
                                        Quince syrup, 59

Orange bitters, 50                      Raspberry liqueur, 51
— brandy, 50                            — syrup,
—   cordial,                            — whisky,5951
— 50 7
    gin,
— wine,         5
                                        Rector, 54
                                        Regent's punch, 25
Orangeade, 36                           Rhubarb, 59
— syrup, 58                             Roman punch, 23
Oxford mixture, 30                      Rosolio, 52
                                        Rum punch, 24
                                        Russian punch, 24
Peach drink, 15
— sherbet,              7
— syrup, 58                             Sam Ward Kiimmel, 16
Pear syrup, 58                          Samson, 8
Peppermint, 51                          Sherbet, peach, 7
Pine-apple cardinal,                    — syrup, 52
—  syrup, 58                            Shandy gaff, 42
Pony punch, 21                          Sherry cobbler, 8
Pousse I'amour, 51                      Shrub, 37
Prairie oyster,             1           — strawberry, 37
President, 15                           Silver fiz, 9
Prima donna, 15                         Soda-water negus, 9
lOO                     DRINKS A LA MODE
Spirits,   89-91                            Wassail bowl, 30-31
St. Charles, 15                             Whisky cocktail,        16
Sportsman's drink, 30, 52                   —   cordial, 16
Strawberry syrup, 59                        —   sour, 17
                                            — toddy, 31
                                            White wine whey, 64
                                            Wine, age of, 74-75
Tamarind drink, 38                          — blending 75  of,
Tea, to make, 68-69                         — care 76of,
— green, 70                                 — decanting 79  of,
—  iced,and lemon, 70                       — manufacture 70-74   of,
Terms used by wine-tasters and              — to   fine,
                                                     78
  judges, 80                                —         and judges, terms
                                                tasters
Toddy, 16                                     used by, 80
— whisky, 31                                Wines, bottling of, 79
Tom Collins, 16                             — of various countries, 82-89
                                            — order of serving 81       of,
                                            — warming, 80
                                            — and cups,     to ice,
                                                                79
University punch, 25
Usquebaugh cordial, 53
                                            Yorkshire punch, 25


Vauxhall nectar, 53                         Zabajone, 32
Victoria lemonade, 38                       Zante syrup, 60




                                 PRINTED BY
                   6P0TTISW00DE AND    CO., NEW-STREET SQUARE

                                      LONDON
