|| For all Seasons.

Esra

A TRILOGY OF BOOKS ABOUT WALES:

Its History, Legends, Folk-Lore, ete.
By MARIE TREVELYAN. *

Dedicated by Gracious Permission to
Her Royal Highness the DUCHESS OF YORK.

1. GLIMPSES OF WELSH LIFE AND
CHARACTER.

Crown 8vo., 408 pages, vellum cloth, illuminated, price 6s. ; gilt
edges, 6s. 6d.

«There are stories of ancient Saperations nnd customs, of poets and musicians,

of pioneers of dissent, of eccentric persons, of folk-l ae of

which are new to us, and. new or old, are told in d sty

also are the pictures of r vals’ of the old Welsh ‘Tory gentleman, the

Welsh farmer, the hiri eddfod, and other national products’ and
saturday R

‘This is one of the best collections of Welsh tales w

a book which every lover of romance should purcha:

Dedicated by permission to
The Right Hon. LORD WINDSOR, Lord Lieutenant of

Glamorganshire.
2. FROM SNOWDON TO THE SEA:

Stirring Stories of North and South Wales.

Crown 8vo., 432 pages, cloth, emblazoned, price 6s. ; gilt edges,
6s. 61.

‘Rich in the traditions, folk-lore, and romances which have been woven into
stories by this able authoress,'—Sieffield Independent.

Dedicated to the Immortal Memory of
LLEWELYN AP GRUFFYD, last Native Prince of Wales.

3. THE LAND OF ARTHUR:
Its Heroes and Heroines.
Crown 8v0., 440 pages, cloth, illuminated, price 6s. ; gilt edges,

ve yet seen... . Itis
Nectte Ckreict

Hor Majesty the QUEEN, HLH. the PRINGE OF WALES, HR, the PRINCESS OF
the DUGHESS OF YORK, H.R.H. the DUCHESS OF TECK, have
Been erdelouty pleased to accept copier of the above books

~ London: John Hogg, 13, Paternoster Row, EAC.

“gi

Uniform with ‘THE BADMINTON Liprary,’

Large crown 8vo., 472 pages, cloth, with Portraits, etc., price
tos. 6d.

A limited number of large-paper copies, 4to., half morocco,
gilt top, price 315. 6d.

The WHIST TABLE,

A Treasury of Notes on the Royal Game.

By ‘CAVENDISH,’ C. MOSSOP, A. C. EWALD,
CHARLES HERVEY,

AND OTHER DISTINGUISHED PLAYERS.

GOOD PLAY AND BAD PLAY.

THE CLUB CODE OF WHIST LAWS.
THE LANGUAGE OF THE CARDS.
HINTS.TO YOUNG PLAYERS.

THE ETIQUETTE OF THE TABLE.
WHIST STORIES, ANECDOTES, AND FALLACIES,
SOCIAL, HUMOROUS, AND PRACTICAL
JOTTINGS, ETC.

TO WHICH IS ADDED

SOLO WHIST AND ITS RULES.

‘A New and Revised Treatise on ‘ Solo Whist,’ containing all the latest Altera-
tions, Additions, and Improvements, By Mr. Apranam S. Witks, the
well-known recognised authority on the game.

The whole Edited by ‘PORTLAND.’

‘A noble volume, which will no doubt be a perennial source of delight to the
devotees of Whist, and the young player’s best guide to proficiency. It pro-
claims its authority in high style. . . . ‘There is also a learned treatise on Solo
Whist by Mr. A. S. Wilks. Th ing of the book is quite a picture.’—
World.

Ficld-Marshal ILR.H, the PRINCE OF WALES and His Grace the DUKE OF PORTLAND
We each accepted a copy of ‘The Whist Table,’

London: John Hogg, 13, Paternoster Row, E.C,

|
|
TEMPERANCE BEVERAGES

First introduced in the year 1844 by

ADAM HILL,
258, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON.

SYRUP OF LIMES. | ORANGE.

RASPBERRY. PINEAPPLE.

GINGERETTE. ELDERETTE.

‘LEMON. | BLACK CURRANT.
VICTORINE.

Price One Shilling per pint bottle.

A pint will make twenty-four glasses of a Cooling and
Refreshing Drink.
DRINKS

DRINKS OF ALL KINDS

HOT AND COLD

FOR ALL SEASONS.

BY FREDERICK DAVIES,
AUTHOR OF

‘WEDDING BREAKFASTS,’ ‘BALL AND OTHER WoRKS oN
COOKERY, CONFECTIONERY, ETC.

AND
SEYMOUR DAVIES,
LATE OF THE OCCIDENTAL MOUSE, PHILADELPHIA ;

ASTOR HOUSE, NEW YO
AMERICAN DARS IN LONDON,

W. FOULSHAM & Co,
Publishers,
4, PILGRIM STREET, LONDON.
PREFACE
AND GENERAL DIRECTIONS, ETC.

Tus Manual will be found to contain Recipes
for the best Summer and Winter Drinks, both
British and Foreign, including the so-called
“American Drinks.’ The authors know by
experience that there are few who are familiar
with the best way of making these Drinks;
but if the instructions here given are faith-
fully carried out, the result will be found to
be quite satisfactory, not only to the learner,
but also to those who wish to refresh their
memories as to the many Drinks that may
from time to time be desired.

The Recipes are written in simple language,
and show the best, shortest,and most economical
modes of preparing the Various Drinks. For
easy reference they are grouped under various
headings, arranged alphabetically. A copious
index has also been added.

x PREFACE AND DIRECTIONS

GENERAL DIRECTIONS, ETC.

ALL Eccs used in the concoction of drinks
should be quite fresh, and, when beaten, should
be broken into separate glasses and carefully
strained.

Bitrers.—Boker’s bitters may be used for
Angostura, or vice versd, but the latter in smaller
quantities.

Corpiars, Birrers, Syrups, etc., should
not be placed in ice, but should be kept in an
even and moderate temperature.

GLassrs.—In the following recipes a ‘large
tumbler’ will signify what is commonly known
as a soda-water glass, capable of holding about
a pint, and a ‘small tumbler’ will similarly
signify an ordinary glass, capable of holding
about half a pint.

When a glass is mentioned without any
particular size being stated, it will be noticed
that it is simply used as a vehicle for mixing
purposes, and is not given, as in other cases, as
a gauge for any of the quantities. All glasses
should be perfectly dry and clean before using.

MineRaL Waters should be kept in a cool
temperature and not subjected to sudden
changes, and always with corks downwards.
Syphons placed directly on ice are liable to
explode.
PREFACE AND DIRECTIONS xi

SHAKER, THE.—In mixing cobblers, it is ad-
visable to use a cobbler-mixer, or shaker, as it
is called in America. This utensil is used for
most of the egg and other drinks in this book
where it is directed to ‘shake.’ A shaker
can easily be purchased, as well as the other
small utensils used in the manipulation of
many of the drinks.

Note.—It is easier for an amateur to shake
a drink than to give the professional twist to
the mixing spoon. In shaking, a shaker should
be larger at the mouth than the glass used in
mixing, in doing which you place the shaker
over the glass, and it should fit quite tight, so
that not a drop can exude. After a little prac-
tice, it will become quite easy to use the shaker.

STRAINING.—There is a glass strainer, also
a spoon strainer—either will do—or a small
common hair sieve. If, however, none of
these articles are to hand, a strainer can be
made with a piece of fine clean muslin or linen
attached to a piece of wire that has been bent
to the shape and size of the top of the glass.

Sucar.—Icing sugar is mentioned in the
following recipes, although some prefer fine
castor sugar, as not liable to form in lumps;
but either will do

Syrup. — To prepare the same, put two
pounds of lump sugar broken small into a
basin, and pour over it one pint of boiling
water; when cold, and the sugar is all dis-
solved, bottle and keep ready for use.
xii PREFACE AND DIRECTIONS

Gum syrup is prepared in the same manner,
adding eight ounces of the best small gum
arabic to the sugar, and stirring from time to
time until cold and the gum is dissolved.

Wixes.—All wines should be kept in an
even temperature, lying in a horizontal position,
so that the corks are always moist and evapora-
tion prevented. Care must be taken in un-
corking to avoid shaking the sediment. Wine
may be warmed by placing before a fire, by
putting the bottle in hot water, or by steaming
the glasses before pouring it out. ‘

It has not been thought necessary to give
Recipes for the preparation of Tea and Coffee,
excepting for the iced varieties ; and as regards
Cocoa, the Maker’s Directions are generally ex-
plicit—as, for example, those of Messrs. Cad-
bury, whose Cocoa may be accepted as abso-
lutely pure, forming a delicious beverage at
breakfast, luncheon, supper, and between meals.
It is suitable for the robust, the young, and the
aged, as well as for those of weak and im-
paired digestion.
CONTENTS.

(Hor Alphabetical Index, see end of Book.)

ACB lm ae! Ee
AL DIRECTIONS, ETC.

SUMMER DRINKS.

COBBLERS.
- PAGE | PAGE
Catawba. ‘ . 21 Port Wine 23
Champagne . 22 Rhine Wine. 33
Claret . | Sauterne 23
Hock . , Sherry . 23
Monongahela Whisky 24

COCKTAILS.
Absinthe 24/ Manhattan > 2 27
Brandy. . 2q|Martini =. 5 2
Champagne . 25 Newport . : ae
Coomassie . : . 25|Saratoga 4 . 28
East Indian. 2g|Shery. . - «. 28
Eg Bae 25|Soda . ‘ . 28
Fancy Brandy 26/Sunrise. - + + 28
Fancy Gin.  26|TurfClub 2. 2
Gin’...  6| Vermouth =...
Japanese. { « 26) Whisky, 5 5 Se.)
Jersey (two) : . 26} 5, (Ryeor Bourbon) 2

CRUSTAS.
Brandy, Gin, and Whisky). a Ph use
xiv CONTE.

SUMMER DRINKS—continued.

cups.
PAGE PAGE
Badminton . G + 31, Crimean (éwo) 33
Balaclava. i . 31/| Freemason . 34
Chablis =. . —. 31 Loving Cup. 35
Champagne . 5 ‘ 32 Porter d 35
Cider . . + 32/Race Day 35
Claret (several) « 32 Rochester 36
» (another, large) . 33 Tennis. 36
NCY DRINKS.

Absinthe. » 36] Knickerbein - odd
Absinthe Frappé . 5 . 37] Knickerbocker + ae
Arctic Regions. | 37|L’Amour Pousse (¢wo) 44
Avenue Charmer . . 37|Lemon Squash. . 45
Auld Man's Milk (/vo). 37|Maiden’s Blush . «45
Black Stripe. . |. 38|Morning Call . «45
Bosom Caresser . ~. 38|Mother’s Milk . . 46
Boston Float .  . 38|Peachand Honey . 46
Brandy and Soda. . 38] Pick-Me-Up . 1 a6:
Brandy Burnt . . 38| Pousse Caté (¢vo) . 46
Brandy Champarelle . 39] Rattle-Snake . » a7
Brandy Daisy . . 39|RumSorbet. . «47
» Scafla . . 39|Saratoga Brace Up . 47
Bull's Milk. | ~~ .-:39|Seymour’s Fancy. 47
Colleen Bawn. . 40| Shandy Gaff 2.47,
Corpse-Reviver . . 4o{Sherry Blush =. «48
Cough Mixture . . 4o| Sleeper. . : = 48
Dog’s Nose. . . 4o|Soberer . - ~- 48
Eye-Opener. 4go|South-West. . . 48
Fairy Kiss . | Gr|Stone Fence. . . 48
Flash of Lightning . 41|Stone Wall . . » 49
Flip Flap. | qi{Sunbeam = .. . 4
Gin and Tansy | . 41|Tiger's Mik . . 49
» Wormwood | 42|Tom Collins . ~. 50
Golden Slipper . | 42|Velvet. . . + 50
Heap of Comfort. | 42|Whisky Daisy . . 50
Iced Tea and Coffee White Lion . . » 5
(four) : 42|Wyndham . 51

John Collins. : » 44

CONTENTS xv

SUMMER DRINKS—continued.
FIXES, OR TWISTS.

‘AG

Bourbon + « 5

Brandy. i F . 51)St. Croix 5

Gin 5 . 51 Santa Cruz . 52

Jamaica Rum. . 52/ Whisky (Irish or Scotch) 52
FIZZES.

Bourbon .. 33/Morning Glory... 54

Brandy 2 = + 53)/Rye - s 4 » 54

Gin. . . «+ 53{Silver . OE Ie

Golden. »  .  - 53/Whisky =». 84
FLIPS.

Avenue. . ¢ - 55 Port

Champagne. . «55 Sherry -
JULEPS.

Brandy OeMint. Gale 2 a Ge 82

Champagne « 36 Pineapple » . "+ 37

Gin. . 56 Whisky ke . rey?

LEMONADES.

American 58| For Parties (ve). 59

Avenue * 58 Italian - . . «1 0

Califernian . ; | Plain * & 60

Egg 29|World’s Fair 5. 60
NECTARS.

Cider . 61|Soda . : . 2 OF
NOGGS.

Cider. «s+ 61 | Sherry Egg - vieje 62
62 Soda . . » 62

Ege
xvi CONTENTS

SUMMER DRINKS—continued.

PUNCHES.
Pace
Ala Ford 63 | Light Guard
AMG Romaine (dre) « 64| Medford Rum
65 Mississippi .

el » . 5. 63| National Guard .
Barbadoes . . . 65|Nonsuch . i
Brandy. . .  . 65) Old Delaware Fishing.
Canadian. 6 . 65| Orchard . .
Century Club . . 66| Orgeat. fe
Champagne . s - 66 Philadelphia
Cider. =. =. ~~, «66 Pineapple
Claret . A . . 66 Port Wine
Cold es, 6 67) Queen. a
Curagoaa | =... «(67 Rocky Mountain .
Diy tees.) . . 67) Roman’. :
Duke of Norfolk. . 67, Rum...
George IV... 68 | St. Charles
Gin (two). . 68) St. Croix Rum
Glasgow . . . 69|Sauterne
Gothic. * 69| Sherry .
Grassot . : . 69|Summer
Imperial . | 69 Tip Top
Kirschwasser . 70| Vanilla.
La Patria. @ 5 fe | West Indian
SANGAREES.
ING 5 : 5 + 75|Port .
Brandy | |, __ 76) Porter (or Porteree)
Gin! oe. '76\'Sherry.
SHRUBS.
Brandy . . . 77|English Rum
Cherry. . .  . 77) Raspberry
Currant 5 ql « 77\Rum .
SLINGS.

Brandy, Gin, and Whisky .
CONTENTS xvii

SUMMER DRINKS-—continued.

SMASHES.

PAGE race
Brandy 79|Medford Rum . . 80
Champagne. | . 80/SantaCruz.  . + 80
Gn 80|Whisky . . . 81

SOURS.
Apple Jack . 81| Medford Rum. = 382.
Bourbon 1]Rye . ‘ a a183)
Brandy | | . 82/St.Croix . . | 83
Champagne. . . 82/SantaCruz. .  . 83
Fancy Brandy sh. Ba[Sherys = 4. bs 6 83
Gin’. 2 . $2! Whisky < . . 83
STRAIGHTS . 83
SWIZz 84

‘TODDY.
Apple . SATGING «sy lhnee “aa nee
Brandy $4|Whisky . . . 84
PRAIRIE OYSTER, WITH NOTE OF ORIGI 5 5 tS
TURKEY OYSTER . , é : . . = ee

WINTER DRINKS.

FLIPS.

Ale Flip or Egg H Hot . 86|/Egg(two) . . . 87
Brandy. , S6\Rum). Be
NEGUS.

Port Wine (two). . 88|Soda. . . . 88
NOGGs.

Egg Nogg

General Harrison

89| Sherry Egg Nogg 89
89
xviii CONTE NTS
WINTER DRINKS—continued.
PUNCHES.
PAGE

American Raspberry 93
American Tea Regent . 94
Arrack . Royal 94
Bimbo . Ruby o4
Bombay. Rum » 94
eaeey and Rum. Sixty-ninth Regiment . 95
Elderberry Spread Eagle 95
English 5 g1)/Tea 95
English Milk (for two) p Thirty - second Regie
Louisiana. 6 ment - 95
Milk ga| Uncle Toby. 96
New York 2 | United Service 96
Nuremburg . 2 | University 96
Orange. 92 | Vauxhall 96
Oxford . 93 | Victoria ‘ 97
Port Wine : 93 | Whisky (four) 97
President Lincoln 93 | Yorkshire 98

TODDY.
Apple, Brandy, Gin, Rum, and Whisky 98

VARIOUS.
Ale Posset . . 100, Columbia Skin 103
Ale Sangaree : 100 | Locomotive .. 103
Archbishop . * jor Mulled Port (in Verse) 103
Auld Mans Milk . . Tor Mulled Wine and Eggs 104
Beadle . fior! 4°» without 5, 104
Bishop. @tor|Pope, © i é
Black Stripe . 102 Rumfustian .
Blue Blazer . ‘102/Rum, Spiced
Cardinal ‘102 Tom’and Jerry (witl

Churchwarden
Claret, Mulled

» 102
+ 103 |

account of its ori;

OTHER HOT WINTER DRINKS.
Made principally with Syrus.

Ale Flip
Ale Posset

» Spiced .
Archbishop .
Beadle .
Bishop .
Cardinal
Churchwarden
Locomotive
ope . 2
Rumfustian .
Rum, Spiced
Seymours Fancy .

PAGE
. 108 Shandy Gaff.

» 108 , Sleeper.

. 108 Stone Fence

* tog | Tarragona 5

. 109 | Tiger’s Milk.

+ 109) Union .

« 109 | Universal Favourite
. 110 Velvet .

. 110) Victoria.

| 110, White House

. 110| White Lion .

. 110) Wood Lawn

“tre Wyndham

SUMMER DRINKS.
Made principally with Syrups. (See p. 114.)

SUMMER BEVERAGES.
For Evening Parties.
Cherry Brandy Squash 115 | Lemonade

Cherry Drink (¢qo)
Cups . ‘
earn Drink :
English Champagne

Fig and Apple Drink .

. 113] Lemon Squash
. 116 | Orangeade
. «16, Port Wine Negus
+07) Punch (¢vo)

French Plum Drink (vo) 117 Raspberry Vinegar

Fruit Drinks
Ginger Beer.
Hop Beer :
Iced Coffee .

1 tea.
Imperial Drink

118 Drink
. U19| Sherry or other White
| 119) Wine Negus
| 119| Spruce Beer. ©.
119 | Strawberry Drink
. 119 | Syllabub :

J I
117 | Raspberry Drink (¢wo)

PAGE

> ar
Sora
. TET
Gans
£12
is a2
« 112

13

XX CONTENTS

TEMPERANCE DRINKS.

Hot and cold.

PAGE c
Almond Drink (/wo) . 123/Lemon Flip (hot and
Apple Drink (Aree). 124 cold). :
GecayDaae, 4 | i2e| Lemon Squazh (ta) -
Delicious Drink «| 125 Orangeade (¢iree)
Drink for Dog Days . 125 Orange Drink (¢we)
Egg Nogg(hotandcold) 125 Orgeat Water
Elderberry Punch. 134 Peach Drink

Fig and Apple Drink . 126 Quince Drink
Fresh Fruit Drinks | 126 Raspberry Drink (and

Fruit Drinks . 126, Fresh Fruit Drinks)
Fruit Drinks (with jam) 126, Raspberry Squash
Iced Tea and Coffee . 126 » Vinegar
Imperial Drink. . 127 Drink
Lemonade (six) . 127 Rizine and Milk .
» Fermented . 128, Summer Drinks (made
= Ginger . 129 with British Wines) .
3 Orange =. 129 Winter Drinks .
3 Seltzer = 129)

RESTORATIVE DRINKS.

AleFlip. . _—_—-. 135 | Port Wine Mixture
Aniseed Cordial. . 135 | Prairie Oyster |
Baltimore Egg Nogg . 136 | Raspberry Shrub.
Barley Water... 136 | Raspberry Vinegar
Beef Tea Cordial. . 136 Rizine and Milk’.
Brandy, Burnt. . —. 137 | Rock and Rye
Currant Drink . | 137|RueGin |.
Ginger Cordial . . 137 | Sherry and Egg .
Hot Spiced Rum. . 137 |Soda Nectar.
Orange Gin... 138 | Stimulant Mixture
Orange Quinine |. 138 | Turkey Oyster

Peach and Honey . 138 | Whisky Cordial .

138

+ 138
+ 139
+ 139
+ 139
+ 139
+ 139
+ 139
- 139
+ 140
+ 140
+ 140
SUMMER DRINKS.

COBBLERS.

The ‘Cobbler’ is a general favourite in hot weather.
No great skill is required in its preparation, although it
is desirable to display a little taste in its ornamentation,
so that it may be as pleasing to the eye as it is acceptable
to the palate.

Catawba.

Catawba is a Californian wine but little known in this
country. Champagne may be substituted, and for the
purpose the Italian wine known as Sparkling Asti is very
suitable.

Dissolve one teaspoonful of icing sugar in
one tablespoonful of water, which you have put
into a large tumbler; then add two wineglasses of
Catawba or Asti wine, and fill the tumbler with
shaved or pounded ice; shake well, ornament
with one or two slices of orange or pineapple
and berries in season, and place two straws in
the glass. :

2

oa 3
SUMMER DRINKS

v
8

Champagne.

Put into a large tumbler one tablespoonful of
icing sugar, then add a thin paring of lemon
and orange peel; fill the tumbler one-third full
of shaved or pounded ice, and the balance with
champagne; stir with spoon, ornament with
slices of lemon and berries in season, and place
two straws in the glass.

Claret.

The same as Catawba Cobbler, using claret
instead of Catawba.

Hock.

_ The same as Catawba Cobbler, using hock
instead of Catawba, and adding a teaspoonful
of pineapple syrup.

Monongahela.

Put into a large tumbler one wineglass of
Bourbon whisky, one tablespoonful of icing or,
pounded sugar, one slice of lemon, and a slice
of orange; fill up with shaved ice, shake well,
and imbibe through two straws.

Note.—Wines, such as Beaune, burgundy,
blackberry, canary sack, red currant, ginger,
moselle, madeira, orange, port, etc., can be sub-
stituted if desired.
COBBLERS

oO

Port Wine.

Into a tumbler put half atablespoonful of sifted
sugar, dissolve in half a wineglass of water; add
the thinly pared rind of half a lemon, fill the
tumbler one-third full with pounded ice, add
one and a haif glasses of port wine. Stir with
aspoon. Ornament with two slices of lemon,
clusters of white grapes, and nuggets of pine-
apple. Serve with two straws in the glass.

Rhine Wine.

In a iarge tumbler dissolve a tablespoonful
and a half of icing sugar in a wineglass and a
half of water, add a wineglass and a half of
Rhine wine, fill the glass with shaved ice, stir
well, ornament with fruit and berries in season,
and serve with a straw.

Sauterne.

The same as Catawba Cobbler, using sauterne
instead of Catawba.

“ Sherry.

Put into a large tumbler two wineglasses of
sherry, one tablespoonful of icing sugar, and two
or three slices of orange; fill the tumbler with
shaved or pounded ice; shake well, and orna-
ment with berries in season; serve with two

straws.
24 SUMMER DRINKS

Whisky.

Put into a large tumbler two wineglasses of
Irish or Scotch whisky; add one tablespoonful of
icing sugar, and two or three slices of orange;
fill the tumbler with pounded ice; shake well,
ornament with slices of orange and clusters of
grapes, and serve with two straws.

COCKTAILS.

In mixing a Cocktail, which is a beverage particularly
popular at fishing or shooting parties, being considered
sustaining to the inner man, the pounded ice should in all
cases be put into the glass first. The most suitable glass
for the purpose is a tumbler holding half a pint. The
rind of half a lemon, thinly pared in one piece, to fit the
top of the glass, should never be omitted.

Absinthe.

Put into a small tumbler three-quarters of a
wineglass of absinthe, thirty drops of gum, and
ten drops of Angostura bitters; add a little shaved
ice, and thoroughly shake and strain.

Brandy.

Put into a small tumbler one wineglass of
brandy; add thirty drops of gum syrup, six
drops of Angostura bitters, and twenty drops
of curagoa; fill one-third with pounded or
shaved ice, and stir with a spoon or shake well ;
strain, and put a small piece of lemon-peel on
top.
COCKTAILS 25

Champagne.
_ Put into a small tumbler one teaspoonful of
icing sugar, ten drops of Angostura bitters, a
slice of pineapple, and a small piece of lemon-
rind; fill the tumbler one-third full of broken
ice, and fill the balance with champagne ; mix
well with a spoon, strain and serve.

Sparkling Asti will be found very suitable for
this drink.

Coomassie.

Break the yolk of a new-laid egg into a small
tumbler, and mix with it a teaspoonful of icing
sugar ; add six drops of Angostura bitters, two-
thirds of a wineglass of sherry, and one-third
of a wineglass of brandy; fill the tumbler with
shaved ice; shake well and strain; dust with
a little nutmeg and cinnamon.

East Indian.

Put into a small tumbler sufficient pounded
ice to three parts fill; add thirty drops of
maraschino, one teaspoonful of pine-apple syrup,
thirty drops of curagoa, six drops of Angos-
tura bitters, one wineglassful of brandy ; stir
well. Serve with a piece of lemon-peel on
top.

Egg.

Put into a small tumbler one egg, beat up
with a wineglass of gin, and add thirty drops
of gum and six drops of Angostura bitters ;
ice, shake, and strain; dust with nutmeg.
26 SUMMER DRINKS

Fancy Brandy.

This drink is made the same as the Brandy
Cocktail, except that it is strained into a fancy
wineglass, the edge of the glass moistened with
lemon, and dipped in icing sugar, with a piece
of lemon-peel floating on the top.

Gin.

Thirty drops of gum syrup, ten drops of
Angostura bitters, one wineglass of gin, ten
drops of curagoa, one small piece of lemon-peel ;
fill a small tumbler one-third full of shaved ice,
shake well, and strain.

Fancy Gin.

This drink is the same as the Gin Cocktail,
except that it is put into a fancy wineglass, with
a piece of lemon-peel on the top, and the edge of
the glass moistened with lemon and dipped in
icing sugar.

Japanese.

Put into a small tumbler one tablespoonful of
orgeat syrup, ten drops of Angostura bitters, one
Wineglass of brandy, and a small piece of lemon-
peel; fill the tumbler one-third with shaved
ice, stir with a spoon or shake well, and strain.

Jersey.

Put into a small tumbler one teaspoonful of
icing sugar and twelve drops of Angostura
bitters; add a little ice, then fill the tumbler
with cider, mix well, strain, and put a piece of
lemon-peel on the top.
COCKTAILS 27

Jersey.
Another Way.

Put into a tumbler holding half a pint two or
three nice lumps of crystal ice, add one tea-
spoonful of sifted sugar, one teaspoonful of
orange bitters, half a wineglass of brandy, fill up
with cider and mix well. Serve with a piece of
lemon-peel on top.

Manhattan,

Put into a large tumbler half a wineglass of
vermouth, half a wineglass of whisky, thirty
drops of gum’syrup, ten drops of Angostura
bitters, and six drops of curacoa; add a little
shaved ice, shake well, strain into a wineglass,
and put a small piece of lemon-peel on the top.

Martini.

Pot into a tumbler thirty drops of gum syrup,
thirty drops of orange bitters, half a wineglass
of gin, and half a wineglass of vermouth; fill
with shaved ice, shake well, strain into a claret
glass, and put a small piece of lemon-peel on top.

Newport.

Into a tumbler holding half a pint put two or
three lumps of clear ice and a small slice of
lemon; add six drops of Angostura, half a
wineglass of noyau, and half a wineglass of
brandy; stir well. Serve with a piece of
lemon-peel on the top.
28 SUMMER DRINKS

Saratoga.

Put into a large tumbler twenty drops of
pineapple syrup, twelve of Angostura bitters,
twenty of maraschino, and a wineglass of old
brandy; nearly fill the glass with fine shaved
ice and mix well. Then place two or three
strawberries in a small tumbler, strain the
mixture on them, twist a piece of lemon-peel
over it, top off with champagne, and serve.

Sherry.

Put into a tumbler one-third of shaved ice,
ten drops of Angostura bitters, thirty drops of
gum syrup, and one wineglass of sherry ; shake
well, strain, and put a small piece of lemon-
peel on the top.

Soda.

This is made the same as the Jersey Cock-
tail, using a bottle of soda-water instead of
cider. .

Sunrise.

Put into a tumbler thirty drops of vanilla
syrup, ten drops of Angostura bitters, two-
thirds of a wineglass of sherry, and one-third
of a wineglass of brandy; ice, mix, strain, and
add a piece of lemon-peel,
COCKTAILS 29

Turf Club.

Put into a tumbler thirty drops of gum syrup,
ten drops of Angostura bitters, ten drops of rasp-
berry syrup, half a wineglass of gin, and half a
wineglass of vermouth; add a little shaved ice,
shake well, strain into a claret glass, and put a
small piece of lemon-peel on top.

Vermouth.

Put into a small tumbler a wineglass of ver-
mouth, thirty drops of gum syrup, and a little
shaved ice; shake well, strain, and put a piece of
lemon-peel on the top.

Whisky.

Put into a small tumbler thirty drops of gum
syrup, ten drops of Angostura bitters, and one
wineglass of Irish or Scotch whisky ; fill the
tumbler with shaved or pounded ice, shake well,
strain into a fancy wineglass, and put a piece
of lemon-peel on the top.

Rye, or Bourbon (Whisky).

Put into a small tumbler a wineglass of rye
whisky, ten drops of Angostura bitters, and
thirty drops of gum syrup; ice, shake well,
strain, and put a small piece of lemon-peel on
the top.

—
30 SUMMER DRINKS

CRUSTAS.

The Crusta is commonly supposed to be an improve-
ment on the Cocktail.

Brandy.

This is made the same as the Fancy Brandy
Cocktail, with a little lemon-juice and a small
lump of ice added. Mix the ingredients in a
small tumbler; then take a fancy red wineglass,
pare half a lemon all in one piece, the paring
to fit the glass, and strain the mixture into
it, having previously frosted the rim of the glass
by damping the edge with lemon and dipping -
it in icing sugar.

Gin.

Put into a small tumbler thirty drops of gum,
ten drops of Angostura bitters, a wineglass of
English gin, and ten drops of curagoa; fill one-
third with ice, shake well, and strain into a
coloured wineglass; pare half a lemon in one
piece and place the paring round the rim, after
damping with juice of lemon, and frosting by
dipping the edge of the glass in sugar.

Whisky.

The Whisky Crusta is made the same as the
Brandy Crusta, using whisky instead of brandy.
CRUSTAS.—CUPS 31
CUPS.

Cups are extremely popular, and specially adapted for

all descriptions of parties, picnics, race luncheons, ete.

Badminton.

_ Peel half a middle-sized cucumber, and put it
into a silver cup or bowl with four ounces of
icing sugar, juice of a lemon, a little nutmeg,
half a glass of curagoa, and a bottle of claret ;
when the sugar is thoroughly dissolved, pour in
a bottle of soda-water, ice, and it is ready for

use. A couple of sprigs of borax is an improye-
ment when obtainable.

Balaclava.

Throw into a large bowl the thinly pared rind
of half a lemon, add two tablespoonfuls of icing
sugar, the juice of two lemons, and the half of a
small cucumber cut into thin slices with the
peel on. Mix well; then add two bottles of
soda-water, two bottles of claret, and one of
champagne; stir well together; add a small
piece of balm, put in a small block of ice, and

serve.
Chablis.

Dissolve four or five lumps of sugar in a
quarter of a pint of boiling water, and put it
into a bowl with a very thin slice of lemon-peel;
let it stand for half an hour, then add a bottle
of chablis, a sprig of verbena, a wineglass of
sherry, and half a pint of water. Mix well,
and let it stand for half an hour, then strain,
ice, and pour in a bottle of soda water.
32 SUMMER DRINKS

Champagne (and Hock).

These are made the same as Chablis Cup, sub-
stituting champagne or hock for chablis.

Cider.

Put into a bowl one quart of sweet cider,
one bottle of soda-water, one wineglass of
sherry, half a wineglass of brandy, the juice
of half a lemon and the rind of a quarter;
add sugar and nutmeg to taste, and a dash of
extract of pineapple; a sprig of verbena and
two sprigs of borage may be ‘added. Strain
and ice well.

Claret.

Put into a bowl one bottle of claret, half a
pint of cold water, a tablespoonful of icing sugar,
and a teaspoonful of cloves, cinnamon, and
allspice finely powdered and mixed together ;
add the rind of half a lemon, a sprig of balm,
and a lump of ice.

Claret.
Another Mixture. .

Put into a bowl the rind of one lemon pared
yery thin, add some icing sugar, and pour over
it a wineglass of sherry; then add a bottle of
claret, more sugar to taste, a sprig of ver-
bena, one bottle of soda-water, and a grated
nutmeg ; then strain and ice it well.
CUPS 33

Claret.
Another Mixture.

Put into a bowl one bottle of bordeaux, two
wineglasses of sherry, one wineglass of maras-
chino, a small quantity of icing sugar, and one
bottle of soda-water; mix well, then ice.

Claret (and Champagne).
Another Mixture, Large Bowl.

Put into a bowl three bottles of claret, one
gill of curacoa, one pint of sherry, half a pint of
brandy, two wineglasses of raspberry syrup,
three oranges and one lemon cut into slices;
add a few sprigs of green balm and borage, a
small piece of the rind of a cucumber, two
bottles of seltzer-water, and three bottles of
soda-water. Mix well and sweeten with icing
sugar; let it stand for one hour, then strain and
put ina block of ice. Serve in small glasses.
‘Above is for a party of twenty; reduce ingre-
dients if for a smaller party. For champagne
cup: champagne instead of claret, noyeau
instead of raspberry.

Crimean.

One quart of syrup of orgeat, one pint of
brandy, half a pint of maraschino, half a pint
of Jamaica rum, two bottles of champagne,
two bottles of soda-water, six ounces of icing
sugar, and the juice of four lemons.

34 SUMMER DRINKS

How to mix: Peel the lemons, and put the
rind in a bowl with the sugar; macerate them
well, so as to extract the flavour from the lemon-
peel. Then squeeze in the juice of the lemons,
add the two bottles of soda-water, and stir till the
sugar is dissolved ; next add the syrup of orgeat,
and whip well with an egg-whisk, so as to
whiten the mixture. Nowadd the maraschino,
rum and brandy, and strain the whole into the
punch-bowl. Just before serving add the cham-
pagne (which should be well iced), and in doing
so stir well with the ladle, so as to render the
cup creamy and mellow. The above is for a
party of thirty; for a smaller number reduce
the ingredients in proportion.

Crimean.
Another Mixture (for party of five).

Put the peel of half a lemon or orange into a
bowl, add a_tablespoonful of icing sugar, one
wineglass of maraschino, half a wineglass of
curagoa, and half a wineglass of brandy. Mix
well together; then add two bottles of soda-
water, one bottle of champagne, and a lump of
ice, working the whole up and down.

Freemason.

Put into a bowl one pint of Scotch ale, one
pint of mild ale, half a pint of brandy, one pint
of sherry, and half a pound of icing sugar ; mix
well together, grate a nutmeg on the top, and
put in a lump of ice.
CUPS 35

Loving Cup.

Rub the rind of two oranges on loaf-sugar,
and put the sugar into a cup or bowl; add half
a pint of brandy, the juice of one lemon, one-
third of a pint of orange-juice, and one pint of
water; add more sugar if required, and ice
well.

Porter.

Put into a tankard or covered jug one bottle
of stout, one bottle of mild ale, and one wine-
glass of brandy, with icing sugar to taste;
then add a little powdered ginger, half a nut-
meg grated, cover it over, and, expose to the
cold for half an hour; before serving stir in
a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, add a few
pieces of rind of cucumber, and put in a lump
of ice.

Race Day.

Dissolve four ounces of sugar in a quarter of
a pint of water, add juice of two lemons, one
wineglass of brandy, half a wineglass of cherry
brandy, half a wineglass of maraschino, one
bottle of champagne; add a small piece of
cucumber-peel, two sprigs of borage, two slices
of lemon, four strawberries, four brandy cherries,
two bottles of seltzer-water ; stir well. Ice well
for an hour, having first covered the bowl.
Before serving put in a block of ice. Serve
in small glasses.
36 SUMMER DRINKS

Rochester.

Put into a bowl two bottles of sparkling
Catawba, two bottles of sparkling Isabella, and
one bottle of Sauterne; mix well, then add two
wineglasses of maraschino and two wineglasses
of curagoa; ice well, and add some straw-
berries, or a few drops of extract of peach or
vanilla.

Tennis.

Put into a bowl four tablespoonfuls of sifted
sugar, the rind of one lemon and juice of two,
one wineglass of brandy, one wineglass of
ginger syrup, a small piece of cucumber-peel ;
add two bottles of soda-water, one sprig of
borage, and two sprigs of verbena. Ice well;
serve in small glasses.

———

FANCY DRINKS.

Of fancy drinks there is an almost infinite variety. The
following list, however, will be found ta contain most of
the best known recipes, together with the simplest and
most satisfactory methods of preparing the same.

Absinthe.

Put one wineglass of absinthe into a small
tumbler, and fill the glass, drop by drop, with
water. Never use a spoon.
FANCY DRINKS 37

Absinthe Frappé.

Put into a wineglass sufficient finely shaved
ice to three-parts fill the glass, about twenty
drops of gum syrup, and fill up with absinthe ;
stir continually for half a minute, then strain
into a small glass, and drink directly.

Arctic Regions.

Put into a large tumbler a quarter of a pint
of milk, one wineglass of sherry, one egg, shaved
ice, and a tablespoonful of icing sugar; shake
well, dust with cinnamon, and serve with straws.

Avenue Charmer.

Put into a small tumbler a quarter of a wine-
glass of vanilla syrup, half a wineglass of sherry,
and a quarter of a wineglass of brandy ; fill with
shaved ice, shake well, and decorate; insert
two straws.

Auld Man’s Milk, or Egg Nogg.
(See also pages 62, 89, 101, 125 and 126,

To a small tumbler of milk add a wineglass

of rum or other spirit.

Auld Man’s Milk.
Another Way.

Put into a small tumbler two teaspoonfuls of
icing sugar, one egg well beaten and strained,
a quarter of a pint of milk, and a wineglass of
Scotch whisky; fill up with shaved ice, shake
well, dust with nutmeg, and insert two straws.

S

38 SUMMER DRINKS

Black Stripe.

Mix in a small tumbler one wineglass of Santa
Cruz or white rum, one tablespoonful of golden
syrup, and one tablespoonful of water ; fill the
tumbler with shaved ice, and shake well. If
made in winter fill the glass with boiling water
instead of ice, and grate a little nutmeg on top.

Bosom Caresser.

Put into a small tumbler one wineglass of
sherry, half a wineglass of brandy, the yolk of
an egg, two teaspoonfuls of icing sugar, and
two grains of cayenne; add shaved ice, shake
well, strain, and dust with nutmeg and cinna-
mon. 3

Boston Float.

This is a catch drink. A wineglass of water

with a small piece of cork floating on the top.

Brandy and Soda.
(Sometimes called ‘Stone Wall.’)
Put into a large tumbler one wineglass of
brandy and one bottle of soda-water; add a
small lump of ice.

Brandy Burnt?
(Sometimes used as a remedy for diarrhcea.)

Mix one wineglass of brandy with half a
tablespoonful of icing sugar, place it ina saucer
ora plate, and then set it on fire; put three
slices of dried peach in a glass, and pour the
mixture over them.

FANCY DRINKS 39

Brandy Champerelle.

Mix in a small tumbler one wineglass of
brandy, six drops of Angostura bitters, and a
liqueur-glass of curagoa, with shaved ice; shake
well, and strain.

Brandy Daisy.

Put into a large tumbler the juice of a small
lemon, half a tablespoonful of icing sugar, and
dissolve with one squirt of seltzer-water from a
syphon. Add half a wineglass of chartreuse
(yellow), nearly fill the glass with shaved ice,
and add one wineglass of brandy. Stir well,
place the fruit in a fancy wineglass, strain the
ingredients on to it, and serve.

Brandy Scaffa.

Put a quarter of a sherry glass of raspberry
syrup and a like amount of maraschino and
green chartreuse into a sherry glass in such a
manner that the colours do not mix, and top off
with brandy. (See L’Amour Pousse, another

way, page 45.)
Bull’s Milk.
Put into a large tumbler one teaspoonful of
icing sugar, with half a pint of milk, one-third
of a wineglass of Jamaica rum, two-thirds of a

wineglass of brandy; add shaved ice, shake
well, strain into a large glass, and dust with

cinnamon and nutmeg.
4o SUMMER DRINKS

Colleen Bawn.

Put into a small tumbler one egg well beaten,
with a teaspoonful of icing sugar, one-third of a
wineglass of yellow chartreuse, one-third of a
wineglass of benedictine, one-third of a wine-
glass of old rye whisky ; shake well, strain, and
dust with cinnamon, nutmeg, and pink sugar.

Corpse Reviver.

Put one-third maraschino, one-third brandy,
and one-third curagoa into a small spiral wine
or liqueur glass, care being taken not to mix the
colours. (See L’Amour Pousse, another way,
page 45-) :

Cough Mixture.

Put into a small tumbler the juice of a quarter
of a lemon, thirty drops of gum syrup, a quarter
of a liqueur glass of curagoa, and a quarter of a
wineglass of brandy; add shaved ice, shake
well, and strain.

Dog’s Nose.

Put into a small tumbler one wineglass of
English gin and a quarter of a pint of old
Burton ale.

Eye-Opener.

Put into a small tumbler half a wineglass of
hollands gin, twelve drops of Angostura bitters,
and thirty drops of gum syrup; add shaved ice,
shake, and strain.
FANCY DRINKS 4

Fairy Kiss.

Put into a small tumbler the juice of a quarter
of a lemon, a quarter of a wineglass of vanilla
syrup, a quarter of a wineglass of curagoa, a
quarter of a wineglass of yellow chartreuse,
and a quarter of a wineglass of brandy; add a
little shaved ice, shake, and strain. This isa
very pleasant drink.

Flash of Lightning.

Put into a small tumbler one-third of a wine-
glass of raspberry syrup, one-third of a wine-
glass of curagoa, one-third of a wineglass of
brandy, and three drops of Angostura bitters ;
add shaved ice, shake, and strain.

Flip-Flap.

Put into a small tumbler one wineglass of
milk, one egg well beaten and strained, one tea-
spoonful of icing sugar, and one wineglass of
port wine; fill with shaved ice, shake well,
strain, and dust with cinnamon and nutmeg.

Gin and Tansy.

Fill a quart decanter one-third full with
tansy and the balance with gin; let it draw for
a few days until the tansy has soaked well into
the gin. Serve in a wineglass.
42 SUMMER DRINKS

Gin and Wormwood.

Put three or four sprigs of wormwood into a
quart decanter, and fill up with gin; let it draw
for a few days until the wormwood has soaked
into the gin. Serve in a wineglass.

Golden Slipper.

Place the yolk of a fresh cold egg in half a
wineglass of chartreuse (yellow) and half a
wineglass of Danziger goldwasser in a spiral
or fancy wineglass, in such a manner that the
egg and liqueurs do not mix. (See L’Amour
Pousse, another way, page 45.)

Heap of Comfort.

Put into a small tumbler the yolk of one egg,
two-thirds of a wineglass of sherry, one-third of
a wineglass of brandy, ten drops of curagoa, and
a teaspoonful of icing sugar; add shaved ice,
shake well, and strain into a coloured glass;
dust with nutmeg.

Iced Coffee.

Prepare some good Mocha coffee, and let it
cool; then place it in a carafe and put it ina
vessel surrounded with ice. Serve in a small
tumbler.
FANCY DRINKS 43

Iced Coffee.
Another Way.

Make a strong infusion of Mocha or other
fine coffee which has been fresh roasted and
ground; after it is cold, add one quart of cream
which has been whipped up; sugar it to taste,
put it into a freezer, and work until it is thick,
when it is ready for use. To be served up in
small fancy cups or glasses.

Iced Coffee.

Another Way.

Prepare a quart of strong coffee, bright and
clear ; sweeten with four ounces of sifted sugar,
add one wineglass of brandy. Ice well, and
when required to serve put in a large lump of
ice. Serve in small coloured glasses, accom-
panied by thick cream.

Iced Tea,

Make a quart of tea in the usual way. When
it has drawn the proper time, pour off into a
bowl and sweeten to taste with sifted sugar.
Cut two lemons into thin slices, and, when the
tea has been well iced, put in the sliced lemon
with some nice lumps of ice. Serve in small
coloured glasses, giving to each person a portion
of lemon and lump of ice.
44 SUMMER DRINKS

John Collins.

Put into a large tumbler the juice of one
lemon, one tablespoonful of icing sugar, one
wineglass of English gin, one tablespoonful of
water, and fill two-thirds with shaved ice;
shake well, and fill up with a bottle of soda-
water whilst stirring. Insert two straws, and
place two slices of lemon on top.

Knickerbein.

Break into a small tumbler the yolk of one egg,
one-third of a wineglass of curacoa, one-third
of a wineglass of maraschino, one-third of a
wineglass of brandy; add shaved ice, shake
well, and strain; whisk the whife of egg toa
stiff froth, and place it on the top, then dust
with pink sugar, and insert straw.

Knickerbocker.

Put into a small tumbler the rind and juice of
one lemon, then add two teaspoonfuls of rasp-
berry syrup, one wineglass of Santa Cruz or

~ white rum, and a teaspoonful of curacoa; fill
with shaved ice, and shake well. Add berries
in season, and serve with two straws.

L’Amour Pousse.

Put into a small tumbler half a wineglassful of
maraschino, with the yolk of an egg, and beat
both well together; add a quarter-wineglass of
brandy and shaved ice. Shake well, strain, and
dash the top with vanilla syrup.

FANCY DRINKS rg

L’Amour Pousse.
Another Way.

Take a spiral wine or large liqueur glass and
fill one-third of the glass with maraschino ; place
carefully in it the yolk of an egg, and surround
the same with vanilla syrup, being careful not
to mix the ingredients, then fill up with brandy.
This is a delicious French drink. The amateur
can accomplish this delicate drink by pouring the
ingredients over the back of the bowl of a teaspoon.

Lemon-Squash.
(See also page 130.)

Into a large tumbler put the juice of one
lemon, a tablespoonful of icing sugar, and a
little water and ice; shake, and fill with soda-
water. Insert two straws.

Maiden’s Blush.

Put into a small tumbler half a wineglass of
sherry, a quarter of a wineglass of strawberry
syrup, and the juice of a quarter of a lemon;
fill with shaved ice, shake, add a dash of rasp-
berry syrup, decorate, and insert straws.

Morning Call.
Put into a small tumbler the yolk of one egg,
a tablespoonful of icing sugar, one-third of a
wineglass of Santa Cruz or white rum, and
two-thirds of a wineglass of brandy; fill with
shaved ice, shake well, strain, and dust with
cinnamon and nutmeg.

46 SUMMER DRINKS

Mother’s Milk.

Put into a small tumbler one teaspoonful of
icing sugar, a quarter of a pint of milk, one-third
of a wineglass of Santa Cruz or white rum, and
two-thirds of a wineglass of brandy; fill with
shaved ice, shake well, dust with cinnamon, and
insert two straws.

Peach and Honey.
Put into a small tumbler one tablespoonful

of honey and a wineglass of peach brandy. Stir
well with a spoon.
Pick-Me-Up.

Put into a small tumbler six drops of Angostura
bitters, one-third of a liqueur-glass of curacoa,
-one-third of a liqueur-glass of yellow chartreuse,
and one-third of a liqueur-glass of brandy; stir
well with a spoon, and serve in a wineglass.

Pousse Café.

Put into a wineglass one-third wineglass of
curagoa, one-third wineglass of Kirchwasser,
and one-third wineglass of chartreuse. Care
must be taken to keep the different colours
separate. (See L’Amour Pousse, another way,
page 45.)

Pousse Cafe.
Another Way.

Put into a wineglass one-third of a wineglass
of brandy, one-third of a wineglass of mara-
schino, one-third of a wineglass of curacoa.
Stir gently with a spoon.
FANCY DRINKS 47

Rattle-Snake.

Put into a small tumbler half a wineglass of
spruce, half a wineglass of Jamaica rum, and a
tablespoonful of icing sugar; add shaved ice,
shake, strain, and dust with nutmeg.

Rum Sorbet.
Prepare a lemon-water ice, as in Roman
Punch, add two glasses of rum, omitting the
brandy, champagne and tea. :

Saratoga Brace Up.

Put into a large tumbler one tablespoonful of
icing sugar, twelve drops of Angostura bitters,
twelve drops of lemon-juice, six drops of lime-
juice, twelve drops of anisette, one fresh egg,
and a wineglass of brandy. Half fill the glass
with shaved ice, shake thoroughly, strain into
another large tumbler, and fill with syphon
Vichy or Apollinaris water.

Seymour's Fancy.
(See also page 111.)

Put into a small tumbler half a wineglass of
maraschino, the like quantity of curagoa, a tea-
spoonful of icing sugar, one wineglass of brandy,
and the squeeze of a lemon; fill the tumbler with
shaved ice, shake well, and strain; ornament
with a slice of lemon.

Shandy Gaff.

To a pint of bitter or mild ale add a bottle
of ginger-beer and a lump of ice.
48 SUMMER DRINKS

Sherry Blush.

Put into a small tumbler one wineglass of
sherry and thirty drops of raspberry syrup; fill
with shaved ice, shake well; decorate with
strawberries or raspberries, and insert two
straws.

Sleeper.
(See also page 111.)

Put into a large tumbler one wineglass of
Santa Cruz or white rum, one ounce of icing
sugar, the yolks of two eggs, and the juice of
half a lemon; mix well together, then add half
a pint of cold water, a little powdered cloves,
corianders and cinnamon; fill with shaved ice,
shake well, and strain.

Soberer.

Into a large tumbler put the juice of one
lemon, a lump of ice, ten drops of gum syrup,
and thirty drops of Angostura bitters ; fill up
with soda-water.

South-West.

One wineglass of Scotch whisky, a bottle of
soda-water, and one small lump of ice; use
large soda glass.

Stone Fence.

Put into a large tumbler one wineglass of Irish
whisky and two wineglasses of sweet cider;
ice, shake, and strain.

FANCY DRINKS 49

Stone Wall.

Put into a large tumbler half a tablespoonful of
sugar, three or four lumps of ice, one wineglass
of whisky and a bottle of soda-water. Stir with
a spoon, extract the ice, and serve.

Sunbeam.

Into a spiral wine or large liqueur glass put,
firstly, one-fifth of the glass of maraschino;
secondly, the same of curagoa; thirdly, the
same of green chartreuse ; fourthly, the like of
yellow chartreuse; and, lastly, the like of brandy,
being careful not to mix the ingredients. The
amateur can successfully accomplish this rather
delicate drink by pouring the ingredients over
the back of the bowl of a teaspoon.

(White) Tiger’s Milk.

Put into a small tumbler a small wine-
glass of apple jack (é.c., cider and Irish whisky
in equal parts), the like quantity of peach brandy,
and half a spoonful of essence of spice ; beat up
separately the white of an egg with a teaspoon-
ful of icing sugar, and add it to the above ; fill
up the tumbler with shaved ice, shake well,
and strain; add half a tumbler of milk, and
dust with grated nutmeg.
50 SUMMER DRINKS

Tom Collins.

Put into a large tumbler one tablespoonful of
icing sugar, three or four pieces of ice, one
wineglass of Old Tom gin, and thirty drops of
lime or lemon juice. Then pour in one bottle
of soda-water, mix well, remove the ice, and
serve.

Velvet.

Put into a small tumbler one wineglass of
still moselle, half a wineglass of sherry, a small
piece of rind of lemon, and a little icing sugar ;
fill the tumbler with shaved ice, shake well, and
strain ; put on the top a sprig of verbena.

Whisky Daisy.

Put into a large tumbler the juice of a small
lemon, half a tablespoonful of icing sugar, six
drops of lime-juice, and dissolve with a squirt
of syphon seltzer. Nearly fill the glass with
shaved ice, add one wineglass of whisky, more
ice, and half a wineglass of yellow chartreuse ;
stir well, strain into another glass, ornament
with fruit, and serve.

White Lion.

Put into a small tumbler oue and a half tea-
spoonfuls of icing sugar, and the thin rind of
half a lemon; then add one wineglass of Santa
Cruz or white rum, half a teaspoonful of curagoa,
and the like quantity of raspberry syrup; fill
with shaved ice, shake well, strain, and serve
with berries in season.
FIXES, OR TWISTS 5r

Wyndham.

Put into a large tumbler a small piece of rind
of orange, a little icing sugar, a third of a wine-
glassful of maraschino, the like quantity of
curacoa and of brandy, a glass of champagne,
and a split bottle of soda-water; ice well, mix
with spoon, and strain.

Ss

FIXES, OR TWISTS.

In compounding fixes do not omit to put the lemon-
peel in the glass.

Brandy.

Put into a small tumbler a tablespoonful of
icing sugar, half a wineglass of water, the juice
and peel of a quarter of a lemon, and one wine-
glass of brandy; fill the tumbler two-thirds
with shaved ice, shake well, and decorate with
berries in season; insert one straw, or use a
straining spoon on top of glass.

Gin.

Put into a small tumbler a tablespoonful of
icing sugar, half a wineglass of water, the juice
and peel of a quarter of a lemon, and one wine-
glassful of gin ; fill the tumbler two-thirds with
shaved ice, shake well, and decorate with
berries in season; insert one straw, or use a
straining spoon on top of glass.

52 SUMMER DRINKS

Jamaica Rum.

This is made the same as the Brandy Fix,
substituting Jamaica rum.

Rye Fix.
Put into a large tumbler a tablespoonful of
icing sugar, half a wineglass of water, the juice
and peel of a quarter of a lemon, and one wine-

glass of Kentucky rye whisky ; then proceed as
for Whisky Fix.
St. Croix Fix.
This is made in the same way as the Brandy
Fix, with the addition of a wineglass of pine-

apple syrup and the substitution of a wineglass
of St. Croix rum for the brandy.

Santa Cruz Rum.
This is made the same as the Brandy Fix,

substituting Santa Cruz rum or ordinary white
rum when Santa Cruz is difficult to obtain.

Whisky (Bourbon, Scotch or Irish) Fix.

Put into a large tumbler a_tablespoonful of
icing sugar, half a wineglass of water, the juice
and peel of a quarter of a lemon, and one wine-
glass of whisky; fill the tumbler two-thirds
with shaved ice, shake well; decorate with
berries in season, and insert one straw, or use
a straining spoon on top of glass.

——S
‘a

FIZZES $4

FIZZES.

Fizzes should be drunk immediately they are mixed,

otherwise they loose flavour and become flat.
Bourbon Fizz.

Put into a tumbler the juice of half a lemon
and one wineglass of Bourbon whisky; fill with
shaved ice, shake well, strain, add a teaspoonful
of icing sugar, in which place a pinch of car-
bonate of soda, stir well, and drink while
effervescing.

Brandy Fizz.

Put into a tumbler the juice of half a lemon,
half a wineglass of water, and one wineglass of
brandy ; fill with shaved ice, shake well, strain,
add a teaspoonful of icing sugar, in which place
a pinch of carbonate of soda, stir well, and
drink while effervescing.

Gin Fizz.

Put into a tumbler the juice of half a lemon
and one wineglass of gin; fill with shaved ice,
shake well, strain, add a teaspoonful of icing
sugar, in which place a pinch of carbonate of
soda, stir well, and drink while effervescing.

Golden Fizz.

Put into a tumbler the juice of half a lemon,
one wineglass of gin; fill up to three parts
with shaved ice, then break the yolk of an egg
into the tumbler, shake well, strain, add a tea-
spoonful of icing sugar, in which place a pinch
of carbonate of soda, stir well, and drink while
effervescing.

4
54 SUMMER DRINKS

Morning Glory Fizz.

Dissolve in a little water in a large tumbler
the white of one fresh egg, the juice of half a
lemon, a tablespoonful of icing sugar, twelve
drops of lime-juice, and thirty drops of absinthe.
Nearly fill the glass with shaved ice, add a
wineglass of Scotch whisky, shake well, strain
into another large tumbler, fill up balance with
seltzer or Vichy water, and serve.

Rye Fizz.

This drink is made the same as Bourbon
Fizz, substituting old Kentucky rye whisky for
Bourbon.

Silver Fizz.

Put into a tumbler the juice of half a lemon
and one wineglass of gin; fill up to three parts
with shaved ice, then put the white of an egg
beaten to a stiff froth into the tumbler, shake
well, strain, add a teaspoonful of icing sugar, in
which place a pinch of. carbonate of soda, stir
well, and drink while it is effervescing.

Whisky Fizz.
This drink is made the same way asa Gin
Fizz, substituting Irish or Scotch whisky for
gin.

FLIPS 55

FLIPS.
(See also page 86.)

In order to obtain the necessary smoothness, one of the
chief characteristics in Flips of all kinds, it is essential
that the eggs be thoroughly beaten up, and the mixture
passed repeatedly from one vessel to another.

Avenue Flip.
Put into a small tumbler one egg, half a wine-
glass of sherry,a quarter of a wineglass of brandy,

and a quarter of a wineglass of raspberry syrup;
add shaved ice, shake well, strain, and dust

with nutmeg.
Champagne Flip.

Put into a small tumbler one egg thoroughly
whisked, a teaspoonful of icing sugar, and a
quarter of a pint of champagne; mix well with
a spoon, pass from glass to glass until smooth,
and dust with cinnamon and nutmeg.

Port Flip.

Put into a tumbler one egg, a teaspoonful of
icing sugar, and a wineglass of port wine; add
shaved ice, and shake well, then strain, and dust
with nutmeg.

Sherry Flip.

Put into a tumbler one egg, a wineglass of
sherry, a little shaved ice, and a teaspoonful
of icing sugar; shake well, strain, and dust with
nutmeg.

56 SUMMER DRINKS

JULEPS.

This form of drink, of which the Mint Julep is perhaps
the greatest favourite, belongs essentially to America,
where in the Southern States it is extremely popular. It
is reported to have been introduced into England by
Captain Marryatt.

Brandy.

Put into a large tumbler two and a half tea-
spoonfuls of water, a tablespoonful of icing
sugar, and two or three sprigs of fresh mint
pressed well into the sugar and water to extract
the flavour; add one and a half wineglassfuls of
brandy ; fill up with shaved ice, shake well, and
serve with a straw, dashing the top of the glass
with Jamaica rum.

Champagne.

Put into a small tumbler one lump of loaf
sugar and one sprig of fresh mint, then pour
champagne into the glass slowly, and stir gently.
Place a piece of orange on top, and serve.

Gin.

This is made the same as the Brandy Julep,
substituting gin for brandy.
JULEPS 57

Mint.

Put into a large tumbler two and a_half
tablespoonfuls of water, a tablespoonful of icing
sugar, and two or three sprigs of mint pressed
well into the sugar and water to extract the
flavour; add one and a half wineglassfuls of
brandy, fill up with shaved ice, shake well,
draw the sprigs of mint to the top of the glass
with the stems downwards, and decorate with
berries in season and small slices of orange;
dust with a little icing sugar, and dash with
Jamaica rum. Serve with a straw.

Pineapple.

Put a slice of peeled pineapple into a large
tumbler, with the juice of half an orange, ten
drops of maraschino, the like of raspberry
syrup, and half a wineglassful of gin; fill the
tumbler with shaved ice, shake well, and add a
quarter of a pint of champagne. Ornament
with berries in season, and serve with two
straws. A quarter of a wineglass of pineapple
syrup can be substituted for the fruit.

Whisky.

This is made the same as the Brandy Julep,
using whisky instead of brandy.
58 SUMMER DRINKS

LEMONADES.
(See also pages 127 to 129.)

The various recipes for making Lemonade, perhaps
the most popular, inexpensive and refreshing beverage of
modern times, may be generally considered as consisting
of two classes: viz, the plain or ordinary method of
using lemon-juice, water and sugar ; or the more elabor-
ate one including the addition of wines, spirits, etc.
Examples of either will be found in the following recipes,
the quantities of which can be increased or decreased
according to individual taste or requirements.

American Lemonade.

Put into a large tumbler the juice of one
lemon, a tablespoonful and a half of icing sugar,
a wineglass of water, and fill up to three parts
with shaved ice; shake well, fill up with soda-
water, dash with raspberry or strawberry syrup,
and place a slice of lemon and a slice of orange
on top. Serve with a straw.

Avenue Lemonade. 7

Put into a large tumbler the juice of a lemon,
one teaspoonful of pineapple syrup, one tea-
spoonful of vanilla syrup, and one wineglass
of water, and fill up to three parts with shaved
ice; shake well, fill up with soda-water; dash
with strawberry syrup, and serve with a straw.
LEMONADES 59

Californian (or Orgeat) Lemonade.

Put into a large tumbler the juice of a lemon,
half a tablespoonful of sugar, one tablespoonful
of orgeat syrup, one wineglass of water, and
half fill with shaved ice; shake well, fill up with
soda-water, decorate with slices of orange and

lemon, and berries in season, and serve with a
straw.

Egg Lemonade.

Put into a large tumbler the juice of one lemon,
half fill the tumbler with shaved ice; add one
tablespoonful of icing sugar, and break a new-
laid egg into the compound. Shake well, strain,
fill with soda-water, and dust with nutmeg and
cinnamon. Serve with a straw.

Lemonade for Parties.

Rub half a pound of loaf sugar into the rind
of two lemons until it has imbibed all the
oil from them ; then mix with a quart of boiling
water and the juice of three large lemons in
a stone jug until the sugar has dissolved ; then
strain through a piece of muslin, and when cool
it will be ready for use. The addition of the
white of an egg well beaten up and a little
sherry mixed with it, is a great improvement to
the above drink, which can be made in larger
or smaller quantities as desired by increasing
or diminishing the ingredients, Ice if required,
60 SUMMER DRINKS

Lemonade for Parties.
Another Way.

Put two quarts of boiling water into a stew-
pan, also four split dried figs, and let them boil
for a quarter of an hour; then have ready the
peel of a lemon cut very thin, throw this into
the stewpan with half a pound of loaf sugar
broken small, and boil for two minutes longer.
When cold, strain through a bag or sieve, and
add to each tumbler a tablespoonful of crushed
ice and half a gill of sherry.

Italian Lemonade.

Peel two dozen lemons and squeeze the juice
out on to the peel, letting it remain all night. *
Jn the morning add two pounds of loaf sugar, a
quart of sherry, and three quarts of boiling
water. Mix well and add a quart of boiling
milk; strain through a jelly bag till clear, when
it is ready.

Plain Lemonade.

Cut three lemons in very thin slices, and put
them in a basin with half a pound of white or
brown sugar; bruise the whole well together, .
add a gallon of water, stir well, and serve. ~

World's Fair Lemonade.

Put into a large tumbler the juice of one lemon,
one tablespoonful of orange syrup, one wineglass
of sherry, and fill up to three parts with shaved
ice; shake well, fill up with soda-water, dash
with port wine and strawberry syrup, decorate
with slices of lemon and orange, and insert
astraw. This is a most delicious drink.

NECTARS.—NOGGS 6r

NECTARS.
These should be drunk whilst effervescing.
Cider.

Put into a large tumbler the juice of a quarter
of a lemon, a wineglassful of cider, half a wine-
glass of sherry, a quarter ofa wineglass of brandy,
and a tablespoonful of pineapple syrup; fill the
tumbler with shaved ice, shake well, and strain.
Then add a split bottle of soda-water.

Soda.

Put into a large tumbler the juice of one lemon
and a tablespoonful and a half of icing sugar;
mix well, then fill the tumbler three-quarters
full with cold iced water, stir in half a teaspoon-
ful of carbonate of soda, and drink whilst effer-
vescing. This may be taken in the morning as
an aperient.

NOGGS.
(See also pages 89, 125 and 126.)
Noggs are exceedingly nourishing and reviving.
Cider Nogg.
Put into a large tumbler one egg, one anda
half tablespoonfuls of icing sugar, and fill up

to three parts with shaved ice; fill up with
cider, shake well, strain, and dust with nutmeg.

62 SUMMER DRINKS

Egg Nogg,
or, Auld Man's Milk.
(See also pages 37, 89, and 101.)

Put into a large tumbler one egg, one table-
spoonful of icing sugar, half fill with shaved ice,
add a wineglass of brandy, and half a wineglass
of Jamaica rum; fill up with milk, shake, strain,
and dust with nutmeg.

Sherry Egg Nogg.

Break into a large tumbler one egg, add one
tablespoonful of icing sugar, one wineglass and
a half of sherry, and a quarter of a pint of milk;
fill with shaved ice, shake well, strain, and dust
with cinnamon and nutmeg.

Soda Nogg.

Break one egg into a small tumbler, and adda
tablespoonful of icing sugar and one wineglass
of water; fill up to three parts with shaved ice,
shake well, strain, add a split bottle of soda-
water whilst stirring with a spoon, and dust with
nutmeg.
PUNCHES 63

PUNCHES.
(See also page 89.)

It is necessary in making Punch to perfection that the
fragrant essence of the lemon should be extracted by rub-
bing lumps of sugar on the rind, thus breaking the tiny
vessels containing the essence and absorbing it. Also, in
making the mixture sweet and strong, in using tea instead
of water, and in thoroughly blending all the contents so
that the taste of neither shall predominate. Therein lies
a secret only to be acquired by practice. In making
toddy, or hot punch, etc., it is preferable to put in the
spirits before the water, which need not be the case in
making cold punch, grog, etc. The proportions of spirit
and water, and the sweetness or acidity, are to some
extent points of taste or judgment. It is also important
that Summer Punches, if made for a party and likely to
stand any time, be kept properly cool. This can be easity
done by placing the bowl containing the Punch inside a
large metal dish, completely filling the space between the
bowl and the dish with shaved ice sprinkled with a little
rock salt to prevent it melting.

A la Ford.

Put into a bowl the rind of one lemon and a
tablespoonful of icing sugar; pour over these
half a pint of boiling water, and let it stand till
cold. Then add the juice of the lemon, one
wineglassful of brandy, and the like quantity of
Jamaica rum. Ice well, and then serve in small

glasses.

64 SUMMER DRINKS

A la Romaine, or Roman.

Put into a bowl the juice of one lemon, the
juice of half an orange, and a tablespoonful of
icing sugat; then add the white of an egg well
beaten, and mix all well together. Add a wine-
glassful of sherry, the like quantity of Jamaica
rum, and a small lump of ice.

Ala Romaine, or Roman.
Another Way.

Make a quart oflemon water, ice, and when it
has been frozen to a thick consistency add the
following: Four whites of eggs whipped up
very stiff, one glass of brandy, half a pint of
champagne, and half a cup of green tea which
has been infused previously. Continue freezing
a little longer, when it is ready for use. To be
served up in tall sorbet or champagne glasses.

A la Romaine, or Roman.
Another Way.

Put into a tumbler a tablespoonful of icing
sugar, a _tablespoonful of raspberry syrup, a
teaspoonful of curagoa, one wineglass of Jamaica
rum, half a wineglass of brandy, and the juice
of halfa lemon; fill up the tumbler with shaved
ice, shake well, and strain. Dash with port
wine, decorate with fruits in season, and serve
with a straw.
PUNCHES 65

Ale.

Put into a bowl one quart of mild ale, one
wineglassful of sherry, the like quantity of
brandy, a tablespoonful of icing sugar, the peel
and juice of one lemon, a little grated nutmeg,
and a small piece of ice; serve in small
tumblers.

Apple.

Put into a bowl an apple sliced, half a lemon
sliced, and a tablespoonful of icing sugar; then
add a bottle of claret, cover, and let it stand for
three hours; then strain, and put in a small
lump of ice. Serve in claret glasses.

Barbadoes.

This is the same as Brandy Punch, with the
addition of half a wineglass of guava jelly.

Brandy.

Put into a large tumbler one tablespoonful of
raspberry syrup, one tablespoonful of icing
sugar; add a wineglass of water, one wineglass
and a half of brandy, the juice of half a lemon,
two slices of orange, and a slice of pineapple.
Ice and shake well, dress with berries in season,
and serve with a straw.

Canadian.

Put into a large tumbler one wineglass of rye
whisky, half a wineglass of Jamaica rum, three
slices of lemon, a slice of pineapple, a quarter
of a pint of water, and a teaspoonful of icing
sugar; mix well, and then put in a lump of ice.
66 SUMMER DRINKS

Century Club.

Put into a large tumbler one wineglass of Santa
Cruz or white rum, half a wineglass of Jamaica
rum, the squeeze of a lemon, and a teaspoonful
of icing sugar; mix well, and then put in a piece
of ice.

Champagne.

Put into a large tumbler one wineglass ot
champagne, a teaspoonful of icing sugar, a slice
of orange, a squeeze of lemon, a slice of pine-
apple, and a teaspoonful of raspberry or straw-
berry syrup ; mix well, fill with shaved ice, orna-
ment with fruits in season, and serve with a
straw.

Cider.

Put into a large tumbler a piece of the rind of
a lemon, a wineglass of sherry, a teaspoonful of
icing sugar, the squeeze of a lemon, a wineglass
of cider, and a little grated nutmeg ; mix well,
and then put in a piece of ice. If preferred,
add a little brandy and a few pieces of cucumber
rind,

Claret.

Put into a large tumbler a tablespoonful of
icing sugar, a slice of lemon, and two slices of ©
orange; fill the tumbler half full with shaved
ice, and fill with claret. Shake well, ornament
with berries in season, and serve with a straw.
PUNCHES 67

Cold.

Put into a tumbler one wineglass of arrack,
one wineglass of port, the like quantity of water,
a tablespoonful of icing sugar, the juice of a
lemon, and a small portion of the rind; fill the
tumbler with shaved ice, shake well, and strain.

Cura¢oa.

Put into a large tumbler one tablespoonful of
icing sugar, one wineglass of brandy, half a wine-
glass of Jamaica rum, one wineglass of water,
half a wineglass of curagoa, and the juice of
half a lemon; fill the tumbler with shaved
ice, shake, and add fruits in season. Serve
with a straw.

Dry.

Put into a large tumbler one wineglass of
brandy, half a wineglass of water, a quarter of
a wineglass of tea, half a wineglass of Jamaica
rum, a quarter of a wineglass of curagoa, the
juice of one lemon, and a tablespoonful of icing
sugar; nearly fill the tumbler with shaved ice,
shake well, and strain.

: Duke of Norfolk.

Put into a large tumbler one wineglass of
brandy, the thin rind of one lemon, one wine-
glass of water, a tablespoonful of icing sugar,
the juice of one lemon and of one orange, and
one wineglass of milk; nearly fill the tumbler
with shaved ice, shake well, and strain. Put
a thin slice of lemon on the top.
68 SUMMER DRINKS

George IV.

Put into a bowl the thinly pared rinds of one
China orange, one lemon, and the rind of half
a Seville orange, add a quarter of a pint of plain
syrup, then add the juice of the fruit, and let
the mixture stand for an hour. Make half a
pint of strong green tea, sweeten to taste with
sifted sugar, and when cold add to the fruit and
syrup, with half a wineglass of Jamaica rum,
half a wineglass of brandy, half a wineglass of
arrack, the same quantity of pineapple syrup,
and a bottle of champagne ; strain ; ice for two
hours. Serve in small glasses.

Gin.

Put into a large tumbler one tablespoonful of
raspberry syrup, two tablespoonfuls of icing
sugar, one wineglass of water, one and a half
wineglasses of gin, the juice of half a small
lemon, two slices of orange, and one piece of
pineapple. Fill the tumbler with shaved ice,
shake well, and ornament with berries in season.
Serve with a straw.

Gin.
Another Way.
Put into a large tumbler a tablespoonful of
sifted sugar, the juice of one lemon, a wineglass
and a half of gin, and twenty drops of mara-

schino ; add a bottle of soda-water. Ice for one
hour.
PUNCHES 69

Glasgow.

Put into a tumbler one tablespoonful of icing
sugar, the juice of one lemon, and one wineglass
of Jamaica rum; fill the tumbler with shaved
ice, shake well, and strain.

Gothic.

Put into a large tumbler one wineglass of
Catawba, one wineglass of claret, the juice and
thin rind of one orange, and a tablespoonful of
icing sugar; fill up the tumbler three parts with
shaved ice, shake well, and strain. Add one
glass of champagne whilst stirring.

Grassot.

Put into a tumbler one wineglass of brandy,
a teaspoonful of curagoa, a squeeze of lemon,
two teaspoonfuls of icing sugar, one teaspoonful
of syrup of strawberries, one wineglass of water,
and the thin rind of a lemon; fill up the tumbler
with shaved ice, shake well, and garnish with
slices of apricots.
Imperial.

Put into a large tumbler one wineglass or
claret, a tablespoonful of icing sugar, and half a
liqueur-glass of maraschino; fill the tumbler
half full with shaved ice, and shake well, and
strain; then add a split bottle of soda-water, a
dust of nutmeg, and a slice of cucumber.

2)
7° SUMMER DRINKS

Kirschwasser.

Dissolve in a large tumbler with a little
water half a tablespoonful of icing sugar, the
juice of half a lemon, and thirty drops of yellow
chartreuse. Nearly fill the glass with shaved
ice, add a wineglass and a half of kirschwasser ;
stir. Ornament with fruit in season, and serve
with a straw.

La Patria.

Put into a small tumbler half a wineglass of
brandy, a-teaspoonful of icing sugar, and some
shaved ice ; shake well, and then nearly fill with
champagne ; add a slice of orange and a small
slice of pineapple ; serve with a strainer spoon
on top of the tumbler.

Light Guard.

Put into a small tumbler half a wineglass of
sherry, half a wineglass of brandy, half a wine-
glass of sauterne, some shaved ice, and a tea-
spoonful of icing sugar; shake well, and then
fill up with champagne; ornament with a slice
of pine-apple and a slice of lemon; serve with
a straw.

Medford Rum.

Dissolve in a large tumbler with a little
water the juice of half a lemon and a table-
spoonful of icing sugar; nearly fill the glass
with shaved ice, add a wineglass and a half of
Medford rum, and a few drops of Jamaica rum;
stir well. Ornament with fruit in season, and
serve with a straw.

PUNCHES 70

Mississippi.

Put into a large tumbler one wineglass of
brandy, half a wineglass of Jamaica rum, half
a wineglass of Bourbon whisky, half a wine-
glass of water, and a tablespoonful of icing
sugar; neatly fill the tumbler with shaved ice,
shake well; ornament with a slice of lemon,
the like of orange, and berries; serve with a
strainer spoon on the top of the tumbler.

National Guard.

Put into a tumbler a teaspoonful of icing
sugar, the juice of half a lemon, one wineglass
of brandy, one wineglass of Catawba, and a tea-
spoonful of raspberry syrup ; fill up the tumbler
with shaved ice, shake well, and strain.

Nonsuch.

Put into a large tumbler one wineglass of
claret, one wineglass of brandy, one _wineglass
of sherry, one wineglass of tea, one wineglass of
soda-water, the juice of half a lemon, anda
tablespoonful of icing sugar; fill up the tumbler
with shaved ice, shake well, and then strain;
put.on the top a small slice of pineapple.

Old Delaware Fishing.

Dissolve in a large tumbler one tablespoonful
of icing sugar, the juice of half a lemon, and
twelve drops of lime-juice ; nearly fill the glass
with shaved ice, add one wineglass each of
St. Croix rum and old brandy, stir well, orna-
ment with fruit in season, and serve.
72 SUMMER DRINKS

Orchard.

Put into a large tumbler twenty drops of
lime or lemon juice, two tablespoonfuls of
orchard syrup, and half a wineglass of pine- *
apple syrup; dissolve in a little water, nearly
fill the glass ‘with shaved ice, add one wineglass
of California brandy, mix well. Ornament
with grapes, oranges, pineapples, and berries,
top off with port wine, and serve with a straw.

Orgeat.

Put into a large tumbler one and a half table-
spoonfuls of orgeat syrup, one and a half wine-
glasses of brandy, and the juice of half a
lemon; nearly fill the tumbler with shaved ice,
and add a dash of port wine; decorate with
berries in season, and serve with a straw.

Philadelphia.

Put into a tumbler the juice of half a lemon,
one tablespoonful of icing sugar, one wineglass
of brandy, half a wineglass “of Jamaica rum,
and a wineglass of water ; fill up the tumbler
with shaved ice, shake well, and strain.

Pineapple.

Put into a tumbler half a wineglass of Jamaica
tum, half a wineglass of brandy, a quarter of a
wineglass of curagoa, the juice of half a lemon,
and a tablespoonful of pineapple syrup ; fill up
the tumbler with shaved ice, shake well, and
then strain; put on the top a small slice of

pineapple.
PUNCHES 3

Port Wine.

The same as Claret Punch, substituting port
wine for claret.

Queen.

Put into a tumbler the juice and rind of half a
lemon, add half a wineglass of rum, one liqueur-
glass of maraschino, half a wineglass of brandy,
and a tablespoonful of icing sugar; fill up the
tumbler with shaved ice, shake well, and then
strain,

Rocky Mountain,

Put into a tumbler half a wineglass of Jamaica
rum and a quarter of a wineglass of maraschino,
with some shaved ice; shake well, and fill up
with champagne whilst stirring, then place on
the top a slice of lemon.

Roman.
See ‘A la Romaine,’ page 64.

Rum.

Put into a large tumbler a tablespoonful of
sifted sugar, a wineglass of brandy, the like
quantity of rum, two teaspoonfuls of arrack,
the juice of a lemon, quarter of a wineglass of
green tea, a teaspoonful of essence of spice.
Half fill the glass with shaved ice, shake well,
strain, and add sufficient milk to fill the glass.
Dust with nutmeg and cinnamon, and serve
with a straw.
74 SUMMER DRINKS

St. Charles.

Put into a tumbler one tablespoonful of icing
sugar, one wineglass of port, a small glass of
brandy, and the juice of half a lemon; fill up
the tumbler with shaved ice, and shake well ;
ornament with fruits in season, and serve with
a straw.

St. Croix Rum.

Put into a large tumbler one tablespoonful of
icing sugar, thirty drops of lime or lemon juice,
and dissolve in half a wineglass of water; then *
add one wineglass of St. Croix rum, and a
quarter of a wineglass of Jamaica rum; fill up
with shaved ice, ornament with fruit in season,
and serve with a straw.

Sauterne.

This is made the same as Claret Punch, sub-
stituting the like quantity of Sauterne.

Sherry.
* Put into a large tumbler two wineglasses of
sherry, half a wineglass of brandy, a tablespoon-
ful of icing sugar, two slices of orange, and the
like of lemon ; nearly fill the tumbler with shaved
ice, and shake well; ornament with berries in
season, and serve with a straw. i

Summer.
See page 120.
PUNCHES.—SANGAREES 75

Tip-Top.

Put into a large tumbler a liqueur-glass of
curacoa and half a tablespoonful of icing sugar ;
half fill with shaved ice, shake well, add one
wineglass of champagne, and fill up with soda-
water, adding a slice of pineapple; keep stir-
ring whilst putting in the champagne and soda-
water.

Vanilla.

Put into a tumbler a liqueur-glass of vanilla
syrup, a tablespoonful of sugar, a wineglass of
brandy, anda squeeze of lemon; fill with shaved
ice, shake, strain, and add one slice of lemon.
-Serve with a straw.

West Indian.
The same as Brandy Punch, with the addi-
tion of half a wineglass of ginger syrup, and a
little preserved ginger.

——_—_

SANGAREES.

In preparing such compounds the amount of nutmeg,

etc., to be used, must be according to individual taste.
Ale Sangaree.
(See also page 100.)

Put into a large tumbler a teaspoonful of icing
sugar, and dissolve it in a tablespoonful of
water; put in a small lump of ice, and fill up
with ale (mild, Burton, or bitter, according to
taste) ; dust with nutmeg.
76 SUMMER DRINKS

Brandy Sangaree.

Put into a small tumbler one teaspoonful of
icing sugar, half a wineglass of water, one wine-
glass of brandy, and fill up to two-thirds with
shaved ice; mix with a spoon, dash the top
with port wine, and dust with nutmeg.

Gin Sangaree.

Into a small tumbler put one teaspoonful of
icing sugar, one wineglass of gin, and half a
wineglass of water ; fill two-thirds with shaved
ice, dash with port wine, and dust with nut-
meg: 5

Port Wine Sangaree.

Put into a small tumbler one and a quarter
wineglasses of port wine and a teaspoonful of
icing sugar; fill the tumbler two-thirds full with
shaved ice, shake well, strain, and dust with
nutmeg.

Porter Sangaree, or Porteree.

: This is made the same as Ale Sangaree, sub-
stituting porter for ale.

Sherry Sangaree.

Put into a small tumbler one wineglass of
sherry and one teaspoonful of icing sugar; fill
the tumbler one-third with shaved ice, shake
well, strain, and dust with nutmeg.
SHRUBS 7

SHRUBS. -

All shrubs should be carefully strained before bottling,
and then tightly corked.

Brandy Shrub.

Put the juice of five lemons and the rind of
two into two quarts of brandy, cover it over for
three days; then add a quart of sherry and
two pounds of loaf sugar, run it through a jelly
bag, and bottle.

Cherry Shrub.

In an iron pot of water place an earthenware
pot of ripe acid cherries, free from stalks ; boil
till the juice is extracted, then strain through a
cloth just thick enough to retain the pulp, and
sweeten to taste. When perfectly clear, bottle
it, and seal the cork. By putting a gill of
brandy into each bottle, it will keep through
the summer. It makes an excellent drink
mixed with water.

Currant Shrub.

Boil one pint of strained currant juice and
one pound of sugar for ten minutes, skimming
it well; take it off, and when lukewarm add
half a gill of brandy to each pint of shrub.
Bottle tight.

7 SUMMER DRINKS

English Rum Shrub.

Pour three gallons of best Jamaica rum on a
quart of orange-juice, a pint of lemon-juice, and
the peels of the latter fruit cut very thin, with
six pounds of icing sugar. Cover over tightly
for one night; then boil three pints of fresh
milk, and when cold pour it into the spirit and
juice. Mix the whole well together, let it stand
for one hour, filter through a flannel bag lined
with -blotting-paper into bottles, and cork
directly.

Raspberry Shrub.

Let three quarts of ripe raspberries stand in
one quart of vinegar for a day, then strain it,
adding one pound of sugar to every pint ; then
boil for half an hour, skimming it clear, and
add a wineglass of brandy to each pint of shrub
when cool.

Two spoonfuls of this shrub mixed in a
tumbler of water is an excellent drink in hot
weather, or for fever patients.

Rum Shrub.

Mix in a cask one gallon of rum, one pound
of loaf sugar, and three pints of orange-juice.
Leave for six weeks, when it will be ready for
use.
SLINGS.—SMASHES 79

SLINGS.

To convert the following into hot Slings omit the ice
and add boiling water, with a slice of lemon if agreeable.
Brandy Sling.

Into a small tumbler put thirty drops of gum
syrup, or a teaspoonful of icing sugar, half a
wineglass of water, one wineglass of brandy,
and a small lump of ice ; stir with a spoon, and
dust with nutmeg.

Gin Sling.

Put into a small tumbler thirty drops of gum
syrup, or a teaspoonful of icing sugar, half a
wineglass of water, one wineglass of gin, and a
small lump of ice; stir with a spoon, and dust
with nutmeg.

Whisky Sling.

This drink is made the same as Brandy
Sling, substituting Irish or Scotch whisky in-
stead of brandy.

SMASHES.
‘The Smash is a Julep on a small scale.
Brandy.

Put into a small tumbler half a tablespoonful
of icing sugar, one tablespoonful of water, and
a wineglass of brandy ; fill up the tumbler two-
thirds with shaved ice, shake well; use two
sprigs of mint (as in Mint Julep), put two small
pieces of orange on top and serve with a straw.

80 SUMMER DRINKS

Champagne.

Put into a small tumbler a tablespoonful of
icing sugar and a quarter of a pint of cham-
pagne; fill up with shaved ice, mix well with
a spoon, decorate with two sprigs of mint (as
in Mint Julep), and insert a straw.

Gin.

Put into a small tumbler one teaspoonful of
sugar, half a wineglass of water, and one wine-
glass of gin; fill the tumbler two-thirds with
«shaved ice, shake well, ornament with two
sprigs of mint (as in Mint Julep), two slices of
orange, and berries in season; serve with a
straw.

Medford Rum.

This is prepared in the same way asa Brandy
Smash, substituting a wineglass of Medford
rum for the brandy.

Santa Cruz.

Put into a small tumbler one teaspoonful
of icing: sugar, half a wineglass of water, and
one wineglass of Santa Cruz or white rum; fill
up two-thirds with shaved ice, shake well, orna-
ment with two sprigs of mint (as in Mint Julep),
and insert straw.
SMASHES.—SOURS 8r

Whisky.

Put into a small tumbler one teaspoonful of
icing sugar, half a wineglass of water, and one
wineglass of whisky (Irish or Scotch); fill the
tumbler two-thirds with shaved ice, shake well,
and ornament with two sprigs of mint (as in
Mint Julep) and berries in season; serve with
a straw.

SOURS.

In preparing Sours do not omit to put the lemon-peel
in the glass.

Apple Jack Sour.

Put into a large tumbler, with half a table-
spoonful of icing sugar, the juice of half a
lemon, and dissolve the same with a squirt of
seltzer-water from a syphon; add one wine-
glass of old cider brandy. Nearly fill the glass
with shaved ice, stir well, strain, ornament with
a little fruit, and serve.

Bourbon Sour.

Put into a small tumbler one teaspoonful
of icing sugar, the juice and rind of a quarter
of a lemon, one wineglass of Bourbon whisky,
and fill the tumbler two-thirds with shaved ice ;
shake well, and strain,
82 SUMMER DRINKS

Brandy Sour.

Put into a small tumbler a teaspoonful of icing
sugar, the juice and rind of a quarter of a
lemon, and one wineglassful of brandy ; fill the
tumbler two-thirds with shaved ice, shake well,
and strain.

Champagne Sour.

Put into a small tumbler two lumps of loaf
sugar, the juice of half a lemon, a slice of
orange, and a slice of pineapple, with a few
gtapes or strawberries if in season. Frill the
glass slowly with champagne, stir well, and
serve.

Fancy Brandy Sour.

This drink is prepared in the same way as
Apple Jack Sour, substituting a wineglassful of
brandy for the cider brandy.

Gin Sour,

This is made the same as the Brandy Sour,
using gin instead of brandy.

Medford Rum Sour.

Put into a large glass, with half a tablespoon-
ful of icing sugar, the juice of one lemon; dis-
solve the same in a squirt of seltzer-water from
a syphon, add one wineglassful of Medford
tum, fill the tumbler nearly full with shaved
ice, stir well, strain, ornament with fruit, etc.,
and serve.
SOURS.—STRAIGHTS 83

Rye Sour.

This drink is made the same as Bourbon
Sour, using Kentucky rye whisky instead of
Bourbon.

St. Croix Sour.

This drink is prepared in the same way as
Medford Rum Sour, substituting a wineglassful
of St. Croix rum for the Medford rum.

Santa Cruz or White Rum.

This is made the same as the Brandy Sour,
using rum instead of brandy.

Sherry Sour.

Put into a small tumbler one teaspoonful
of icing sugar, the juice and rind of a quarter of
a lemon, one wineglass of sherry, and fill the
tumbler two-thirds with shaved ice; shake well,
strain, and dash with strawberry syrup.

Whisky Sour.

This is made the same as the Brandy Sour,
using Scotch or Irish whisky instead of brandy.

STRAIGHTS.
This drink is served by placing a bottle of
the spirit approved before the person requiring
a straight, and two small tumblers, one with

a lump of ice, and the other three-parts filled
with iced water.
84 SUMMER DRINKS

SWIZZLES.

These drinks are made the same as Cock-
tails, only substituting a swizzle-stick, or using
a whisk instead of a shaker, and omitting the
ice.

TODDY.
(See also page 98.)
Apple.

Put into a small tumbler a tablespoonful of
icing sugar, one wineglass of cider brandy, half
a baked apple, and a small lump of ice; mix
with a spoon.

Brandy.

Put into a small tumbler a teaspoonful of icing
sugar, half a wineglass of water, and one wine-
glass of brandy ; add a small lump of ice, mix
with a spoon, and add half a slice of lemon.

Gin.
This is made the same as the Brandy Toddy,
substituting gin for brandy.

Whisky.

This is made the same as the Brandy Toddy,
substituting whisky for brandy.
|

SWIZZLES.—TODDY.—OYSTERS 85

PRAIRIE OYSTER.

Put into a wineglass half a teaspoonful of
vinegar; on this place carefully the yolk of an
egg; add a pinch of salt and a dust of pepper,
and it is ready.

Nore.—Very few persons, not even the so-called
“American bar-tenders,’ know the origin of this famous
drink, therefore the knowledge may be interesting.

Some years since three men were encamped on Texas
Prairie, 500 miles from the sea-coast, when one of them
was sick unto death with fever, and was frantically crying
out for oysters; he was quite sure that if he could only
have an oyster or two he would be cured. After much
thought as to how they were to procure what he wanted,
one of them, having procured some prairie hens’ eggs not
far from the camp, broke one, and, putting the yolk into a
glass, sprinkled it with a little salt and pepper, adding a
little vinegar, and gave it to his sick companion, who
declared it was just the thing he wanted, and from that
hour he began to get better, and eventually got quite
well.

TURKEY OYSTER.

Break a fresh turkey egg, and carefully put
the yolk into a wineglass without the least
portion of the white, surround it with half a
teaspoonful of vinegar, add a pinch of salt and
a dust of pepper. This is a drink greatly in
vogue with athletes.

6
WINTER DRINKS.
—S Sa
FLIPS.

(See also pages 55 and 108.)
Ale Flip or Egg Hot.

Beat well together in a jug, or a bow], four
eggs with a quarter of a pound of icing sugar;
then add by degrees, stirring all the time, two
quarts of boiling old or Burton ale, and half a
pint of gin ; pour backwards and forwards from
one jug to another till the flip is smooth and
finely frothed, and then serve; grate a little
nutmeg on the top of each tumbler. This is a
capital drink for a cold night.

Brandy.

Put into a small tumbler the yolk of one egg
well beaten, one teaspoonful of icing sugar, and
one glass of brandy; fill two thirds with boiling
water, stirring well, and dust with nutmeg.
FLIPS 87

Egg.

Put into a tumbler one egg and one table-
spoonful of icing sugar; beat well together,
then add a gill of boiling water, half a wine-
glass of brandy, and the like quantity of Santa
Cruz or white rum ; keep stirring while adding
the ingredients together, and dust with nutmeg.

Egg.
Another Mixture.

Beat up in a large tumbler ora jug four yolks
and two whites of eggs with a quarter of a
pound of icing sugar, and then add half a pint
of boiling water; when well mixed, add two
wineglasses of brandy and one of Jamaica rum;
dust with nutmeg.

Rum.

Beat in a large tumbler two eggs with a table-

spoonful of icing sugar ; then add half a pint of

. boiling mild ale, a little grated nutmeg or

ginger, and a piece of lemon-peel; when well

mixed, add a wineglass of Santa Cruz or white

rum, then strain and serve, dusting with cin-
namon.
88 WINTER DRINKS

NEGUS.

Negus may be made of sherry or any other’ sweet wine
(see page 122), but port wine is more usual. Colonel Negus
is said to have invented this beverage.

Port Wine Negus.

Put a pint of port wine into a jug, and rub
some lumps of sugar (equal to a quarter of a
pound) on the rind of a lemon; then squeeze
the juice of the lemon and strain it, adding the
sugar and lemon juice to the port wine, with a
little grated nutmeg. Add to this a quart of
boiling water, cover the jug, and when cooled a
little the beverage will be fit for use.

Port Wine.
Another Mixture.

Put into a small tumbler one wineglass of port
wine with two small lumps of sugar, and half
fill with boiling water ; add a small portion of
the rind of a lemon, and dust with nutmeg.

Soda.

Make hot two wineglasses of port wine, in
which you have put a teaspoonful of icing sugar,
a little grated nutmeg, and a little pounded
cloves; add to this one wineglass of boiling
water and a split bottle of soda-water. This is
a delicious drink, well adapted to those who
do not take punch or potent spirit after supper.
NEGUS.—NOGGS.—PUNCHES 89

NOGGS.
(See also pages 37, 61, 101, 125, and 126),

Egg Nogg.

Put into a large tumbler a tablespoonful of
icing sugar and one egg; when well beaten to-
gether, add one tablespoonful of boiling water,
one wineglass of brandy, and the like of Santa
Cruz or white rum; fill up the tumbler with
boiling milk, and mix well; dust with nutmeg.

General Harrison Egg Nogg.
Beat in a large tumbler one egg with one and
a half teaspoonfuls of icing sugar; then fill the
tumbler with nearly hot cider, and mix well till
quite smooth ; dust with cinnamon.

Sherry Egg Nogg.

Put into a large tumbler one tablespoonful
of icing sugar and one egg; beat both well
together, and then add two wineglasses of
sherry ; nearly fill the tumbler with boiling milk,
mix well, and dust with nutmeg.

PUNCHES.
(See also page 63).
American.

This is made the same as Arrack Punch, with
the addition of half a pint of port wine made
hot.
go WINTER DRINKS

American Tea.

Put into a bowl a quarter of a ‘pound of
powdered sugar, one quart of hot tea, half a
pint of brandy, half a pint of Jamaica rum, and
the juice of one lemon.

Arrack.

Rub on a quarter of a pound of lump sugar
the peel of one lemon; dissolve the sugar in one
pint of hot tea, then add the juice of the lemon,
three wineglasses of arrack, and two wine-
glasses of rum.

Bimbo.

Rub the peel of one lemon on a quarter of a
pound of lump sugar; dissolve the sugar in one
pint of hot tea, then add the juice of the lemon
and half a pint of brandy.

Bombay.

Rub one pound of loaf sugar thoroughly into
the outside of the skins of six lemons, then
place the sugar in an extra large punch bowl,
with two bottles of seltzer-water, one basket of
strawberries, two lemons, six oranges, and one
pineapple, cut into slices and thoroughly mixed.
Then pour in four bottles of champagne, one
bottle-each of brandy, pale sherry, and madeira;
then add a gill of maraschino, stir the whole
well with a ladle, and serve in small glasses.

PUNCHES 9

Brandy and Rum.

Put into a bowl a quarter of a pound of icing
sugar, the thin rind and juice of one lemon, and
one pint of boiling water ; mix well, and then
add two wineglasses of Jamaica rum and two
wineglasses of brandy; dust nutmeg on the
top.

Elderberry.
(See page 134.)
English,

Rub the rind of one lemon on a quarter of a
pound of lump sugar; dissolve the sugar in
boiling water, then add half a pint of boiling
ale, a gill of strong hot tea, the juice of the
lemon, a wineglass of brandy, and the like of
Jamaica rum; mix well.

English Milk.
(For Two.)

Dissolve in half a pint of boiling milk one
tablespoonful of icing sugar, then add half a
wineglassful of brandy and the like quantity of
Santa Cruz or white rum; mix well together.
Grate a little nutmeg on top, and serve.

Louisiana.

Put into a small tumbler one wineglass of
Bourbon whisky, the juice of an orange, and a
teaspoonful of icing sugar ; fill up with boiling
water,

92 WINTER DRINKS

Milk.

Put into a small tumbler a teaspoonful of
icing sugar, half a wineglass of brandy, half a
wineglass of Jamaica rum, and fill up with
boiling milk.

New York.

Dissolve two tablespoonfuls of icing sugar in
a pint of boiling water, add two wineglasses
of Santa Cruz or white rum, and one wineglass
of Jamaica rum; mix well together.

Nuremberg.

Dissolve one tablespoonful of icing sugar ina
large tumbler or a jug with boiling water; add
the juice of one orange and a part of the rind
pared very thin, one wineglass of arrack, and
one wineglass of claret ; nearly fill the tumbler
with boiling water, mix well, and strain.

Orange.

Put into a large tumbler the juice and rind of
one orange, a tablespoonful of icing sugar, and
half a pint of boiling water; then add one wine-
glass of porter, half a wineglass of Jamaica
rum, half a wineglass of brandy, and a liqueur-
glass of curagoa, noyau, or maraschino.
PUNCHES 93

Oxford.

Rub the rind of one lemon on a few small
lumps of sugar, and add the thin rind of an
orange; dissolve the sugar in nearly a pint of
boiling water, add a wineglass of calf's-foot
jelly, one wineglass of sherry, one wineglass of
brandy, and one wineglass of Jamaica rum ;
mix well, then strain, and add more sugar if
necessary.

Port Wine.

Put into a skillet one and a half tablespoonfuls
of icing sugar, a slice of lemon, two slices of
orange, two wineglasses of port wine, and the
like of water; make all hot, but do not let it
boil, then strain.

President Lincoln.

Infuse the thin rind of one lemon in half a
pint of boiling water, with a tablespoonful of
icing sugar; add one wineglass of brandy, a
tablespoonful of strawberry syrup, a dash of
curagoa, and the juice of half a lemon; mix
well and strain.

Raspberry.
Put into a jug a gill of raspberry syrup and
a pint of boiling water ; then add half a pint of
stout made hot, one wineglass of brandy, one
wineglass of Jamaica rum, and a liqueur-glass
of curagoa, noyau, or maraschino; mix well,
strain, and divide into glasses.
94 WINTER DRINKS

Regent.

Put into a bowl one wineglass of champagne,
one wineglass of hockheimer, one wineglass of
curacoa, half a wineglass of Jamaica rum, one
wineglass of madeira, and nearly a pint of very
hot tea; mix well and serve. This is sufficient
for four’ persons.

Royal.

Peel a lemon very thin, and put the rind into
a bowl with two tablespoonfuls of icing sugar;
pour on this a pint of hot strong tea, the juice
of two lemons, half a pint of brandy, half a pint
of Jamaica rum, one wineglass of curacgoa, one
wineglass of calf’s foot jelly, or the whites of
two eggs beaten to a froth, and one wineglass
of arrack; mix well; the tea must be very
hot, as it should be drunk as warm as possible.
This is sufficient for a party of ten. If too
strong add more tea.

Ruby.

Put into a smail tumbler a tablespoonful of
icing sugar, the juice of half a lemon, one
wineglass of arrack, and one wineglass of port
wine; fill up with hot tea.

Rum.

Put into a large tumbler a teaspoonful of icing
sugar, one wineglass of Jamaica rum, and one
wineglass of brandy; then add half a pint of
boiling water, a little lemon-juice and grated
nutmeg.
PUNCHES 95

Sixty-ninth Regiment.

Put into a tumbler a teaspoonful of icing
sugar, a slice of lemon, half a wineglass of
Irish whisky, and half a wineglass of Scotch
whisky; mix well, and fill up the tumbler with
boiling water.

Spread Eagle.

To half a pint of boiling water with a tea-
spoonful of icing sugar, add one wineglass of
Scotch whisky, one wineglass of champagne,
and a small piece of lemon-peel.

Tea.

Put into a large tumbler half a pint of boiling
tea with a teaspoonful of icing sugar, add one
wineglass of brandy and one wineglass of
Jamaica rum; after you have set them on fire,
add the juice of one lemon.

Thirty-second Regiment, or Victoria.

To half a large tumbler of boiling milk with
a tablespoonful of icing sugar, add one wineglass
of brandy, half a wineglass of Jamaica rum, a
slice of lemon, and then fill up the tumbler
with boiling water ; mix well and strain.
96 WINTER DRINKS

Uncle Toby.

Rub the rind of one lemon on two or three
small lumps of sugar; put the sugar ina large
tumbler with the juice of the lemon, and dissolve
in one wineglass of boiling water; then add one
wineglass of brandy, one wineglass of Jamaica
tum, and two wineglasses of hot stout; mix
well, then strain, and add more sugar if
necessary.

United Service.

Rub the rind of one lemon on some lumps of
sugar, and put the sugar into a small tumbler
with the juice of the lemon; then add one wine-
glass of arrack, and fill up the tumbler with
boiling tea, adding more sugar if necessary.

University.

Rub the rinds of two lemons on a quarter of
a pound of lump sugar, and dissolve the sugar
in a bowl in half a pint of boiling water; add
the juice of the two lemons, the juice of two
oranges, one wineglass of sherry, one wineglass
of brandy, one wineglass of Jamaica rum, one
wineglass of orange shrub, and an extra half-
pint of boiling water; mix well and then strain.

Vauxhall.

Put into a large tumbler one wineglass of
brandy, one wineglass of Jamaica rum, one
wineglass of arrack, the juice of half a lemon,
and a tablespoonful of icing sugar; mix well,
then strain into two small tumblers, and fill
each with boiling water.
PUNCHES 97

Victoria, or Thirty-second Regiment.

Throw into a bowl one lemon cut in slices,
free from pips, two ounces of icing sugar, two
wineglasses of boiling water, one wineglass of
hot milk, one wineglass of Jamaica rum, and
one wineglass of brandy; keep stirring while
adding the ingredients, so as to mix thoroughly ;
strain and serve.

Whisky.

Put into a small tumbler one wineglass of Irish
or Scotch whisky, a teaspoonful of icing sugar,
and a slice of lemon; fill up with boiling water.

Whisky.
Another, Irish.

Rub the rind of a lemon on two small lumps
of loaf sugar, dissolve the sugar in a tumbler
with a gill of boiling water; add one wine-
glassful of Irish whisky, then serve.

Whisky.
Another, Scotch.

This is made the same way as Irish Whisky

Punch, using Scotch whisky instead of Irish.
Whisky.
Another, Scotch:

Put into a tumbler the thin rind of one lemon
and a teaspoonful of icing sugar; dissolve the
sugart in one wineglass of boiling water ; add
one wineglass of Scotch whisky, then add
another wineglass of boiling water; mix well
and strain.
98 WINTER DRINKS

Yorkshire.

Rub the rind of three lemons on a quarter of
a pound of loaf-sugar, and place the sugar in a
bowl with the thin rind of one lemon, the thin
tind of one orange, the juice of four oranges,
the juice of ten lemons, six wineglasses of calf's-
foot jelly, and two quarts of boiling water; mix
thoroughly, strain, and add half a pint of
Jamaica rum, half a pint of brandy, and a bottle
of orange shrub; sweeten to taste. This is
sufficient for ten persons.

TODDY.
(Sce also page 84.)
Apple.
Put into a small tumbler a tablespoonful of
icing sugar, half a baked apple, and two wine-
glasses of boiling water; let it stand fora few

minutes, then add a wineglass of cider brandy,
strain, and dust with nutmeg.

Brandy.

Put into a small tumbler a teaspoonful of icing
sugar and one wineglass of brandy; fill the
tumbler about two thirds with boiling water,
and add a small piece of the peel of a lemon.

Gin.
This is made the same as Brandy Toddy,
substituting gin for brandy.
TODDY 99

Rum.
This is made the same as Brandy Toddy,
substituting Jamaica, Santa Cruz or white rum
for brandy.

Whisky.
This is made the same as Brandy Toddy,

substituting Scotch or Irish whisky for
brandy.

WINTER DRINKS—VARIOUS.

(See also pages 108 and 134.)
Ale Posset.
(See also page 108.)

Put into a jug half a pint of sherry and half
a pint of Burton ale, adding one quart of boiling
hot milk, in which you have dissolved a table-
spoonful of icing sugar, and be careful to remove
any scum that may be on the milk; when well
mixed and strained it is ready to serve. Adda

little grated nutmeg to each glass.

Ale Sangaree.
(See also page 75.)

Put into a small jug half a pint of boiling hot
ale, add a teaspoonful of icing sugar; mix
well, serve in a tumbler, and dust with grated
nutmeg.
VARIOUS 101

Archbishop.
(See also page 109.)

Stick an orange full of cloves, and roast it
before the fire, or put it into a warm oven;
when of a brown colour, cut it into quarters
and take out the pips, then put it into a stew-
pan, and pour over it a bottle of claret. Add
sugar to taste, and let it simmer for a quarter
of an hour; then strain and serve.

Auld Man’s Milk.
(See also pages 37, 62, 89, 125 and 126.)
. Put into a large tumbler a tablespoonful of
icing sugar and one egg, and beat well together;
then add a wineglass of brandy and a wineglass
of Santa Cruz or white rum. Nearly fill with
boiling water, and dust with nutmeg.

Beadle.
(See also page 109.)

Put into a large-sized tumbler or a jug two
yolks of eggs and two ounces of powdered
Sugar, and beat well together ; then add a
quarter of a teaspoonful of mixed spice and
halfa pint of boiling water, and beat till smooth;
then add one wineglass of sherry and one wine-
glass of ginger-brandy. Mix well, and dust with
ni .
Bas Bishop.

(See also page 109.) ;

This is made the same as Archbishop, substi-
tuting port for claret. :

7
102 WINTER DRINKS

Black Stripe. .
See page 38.
Blue Blazer.

Put into a silver-plated or earthenware mug
(which has been previously heated) one wine-
glass of strong Scotch whisky (proof) and one
wineglass of boiling water; set on fire, and have
ready a second mug, already heated, and pass
the blazing liquid from one mug to the other
three or four times. Serve in a small tumbler,
with a teaspoonful of icing sugar and a small
piece of lemon-peel. This drink can be easily
mixed by the amateur, if he practises with cold
water at first. When done well it is very im-
posing, and is, in fact, a liquid stream of
fire.

Cardinal.
(See also page 109.)
This is made the same as Archbishop, substi-
tuting champagne for claret.

Churchwarden.
(See also page 110.)

Put into a large tumbler a lemon roasted and
cut into quarters, the pips being removed; add
a tablespoonful of icing sugar, two wineglasses
of hot port wine, and one of hot tea.

-VARIOUS 103

Claret, Mulled.

Put into a bowl the peel and juice of one
lemon, a tablespoonful of powdered sugar, and
one wineglass of sherry; make a bottle of claret
quite hot, and add it to the above; then put in
a sprig of verbena, and serve with a dust of
nutmeg.

Columbia Skin.

Put into a small tumbler one wineglass of
Scotch whisky and a small piece of lemon-peel;
fill the tumbler half full with boiling water.

Locomotive.
(See also page 110.)

Beat two eggs with a little honey in a small
bowl or a jug, add a pinch of ground cloves
and a liqueur glass of curagoa; then add, beating
all the time, one pint of burgundy made boiling
hot. Dust with nutmeg.

Mulled Port (or other Wine).

The following lines by Jerry Thomas may be
found instructive and amusing :

‘First, my dear madam, you must take

Nine eggs, which carefully you'll break ;
Into a bowl you'll drop the white,

The yolks into another by it.

Let Betsy beat the whites with switch

Till they appear quite frothed and rich ;
Another hand the yolks must beat

With sugar, which will make them sweet—
Three or four spoonfuls maybe ’ll do,
Though some, perhaps, would take but two.
104 WINTER DRINKS

Into a skillet next you'll pour

A bottle of good wine or more ;

Put half a pint of water, too,

Or it may prove too strong for you.
And while the eggs (by two) are beating,
The wine and water may be heating ;
But when it comes to boiling heat,
The yokes and whites together beat
With half a pint of water more,
Mixing them well, then gently pour
Into the skillet with the wine,

And stir it briskly all the time ;
Then pour it off into a pitcher,

Grate nutmeg in to make it richer ;
Then drink it hot, for he’s a fool
Who lets such precious liquor cool.’

Mulled Wine and Eggs.
(For a Party of Ten.)

Put into a bowl six eggs, and beat them well
with a quarter of a pound of icing sugar; add a
little ground allspice and nutmeg, one pint of
boiling water, and one quart of port (or other)
wine made quite hot. Beat all well together,
and then strain; dust with cinnamon. Do not
pour the eggs into the wine, as they would
curdle.

Mulled Wine without Eggs.

As a general rule, for preparing this beverage
allow one small tumblerful of water to every
pint of wine, and add sugar and spice to taste.
The spices usually used for mulled wine are
cloves, grated nutmeg, cinnamon, or mace, and
should be boiled in the water in a thoroughly
VARIOUS 105

clean vessel until the flavour is extracted; then
add the wine and sugar, and bring the whole to
the boiling-point. Serve with dry toast or
biscuits.
Pope.
(See also page 110.)

This drink is very similar to Bishop. Roast
two Seville oranges, cut into quarters, and
take out the pips; pour over them a bottle
of hot burgundy, adding sugar to taste, put
them in a stewpan, and just bring to the boil ;
then strain. A tablespoonful of brandy is a
great improvement.

Rumfustian.
(See also page 110.)

Beat up ina large tumbler or a jug the yolks
of two eggs, with a tablespoonful of icing sugar ;
then take half a pint of Burton ale, one wine-
glass of gin, one wineglass of sherry, a little
spice, and the rind of a quarter of a lemon.
Let the ale, wine, and gin, mixed together,
come to the boil, then pour into the egg mix-
ture, whisking rapidly ; serve hot, with a dash
of nutmeg on top.

Rum, Spiced.
(See also page 110.)

Ina small tumbler put a teaspoonful of icing
sugar, one wineglass of Jamaica rum, a small
piece of fresh butter, and a little mixed spice ;
nearly fill a tumbler with hot water, and mix well
together.
106 WINTER DRINKS

Tom and Jerry.

I may premise that what led to this excel-
lent hot drink being invented or mixed is not
generally known. The following particulars
were communicated to my son by Mr. Jerry
Thomas himself, of the Planter’s House, St.
Louis, and afterwards of his own saloon at the
corner of the Sixth Avenue and Broadway, New
York. He said:

‘One very cold day I was mixing an egg
nogg, and was about to add the milk and ice to
the mixture, when all at once I thought, “If the
nogg is good cold, why should it not on a cold
day like this be better hot ?”” I determined to
try. I put two tablespoonfuls of the batter into
a tumbler, and, instead of milk and ice, put in
half a pint of boiling water, stirring quickly all
the time to keep it smooth. I then added the
usual brandy, Jamaica, and Santa Cruz rum,
and a dust of nutmeg, and offered it to a
customer who was present; he tasted, he drank,
and at once pronounced it ‘nectar fit for the
gods’’; it was exhilarating, and made him “feel
warm all over.” TI also tasted it, and with my
acquired taste said, ‘“‘ That will do.”

“It soon became known, and when a name
was about to be given it a facetious friend who
was present suggested that it should be called
after myself, “ Jerry Thomas,” “ or better still,”
he said, “call it ‘Tom and Jerry,’” and that is
the name it has been known by ever since.’

The mixture is made as follows, using a
VARIOUS 107

punch bowl: Beat the whites of six eggs to a
stiff froth, and the yolks until they are as thin
as water; then mix together, with a quarter of
a wineglass of Jamaica rum, two pounds of
icing sugar, and a teaspoonful of mixed spice
(nutmeg and cinnamon), until the mixture
attains the consistency of a light batter. Put
a tablespoonful of this mixture into a small
tumbler with a wineglass of brandy, and nearly
fill with boiling water; serve with a little grated
nutmeg on top.

Instead of brandy, a wineglassful may be
used of the following mixture, which has been
previously prepared and stored in a_bottle:
One pint of brandy, half a pint of Jamaica
rum, and half a pint of Santa Cruz or white
rum; and instead of serving in a small
tumbler, an earthenware cup will be found an
improvement.

N.B.—In mixing the batter, a teaspoonful of
cream of tartar or a little carbonate of soda
will prevent the sugar from settling to the
bottom of the mixture. For cold Tom and
Jerry use cold water or cold milk.
OTHER HOT WINTER DRINKS.

Made principally with Syrups.
(See also pages 100 and 134.)
Se

Ale Flip.
(See also pages 35 and 86.)

Break one egg into a large tumbler and beat
it up, add a tablespoonful of each of the follow-
ing syrups: pale ale, ginger gin, and spiced ale;
then pour in, whisking all the time, half a pint
of boiling water ; dust of nutmeg on the top.

Ale Posset.
(See also page 100.)

Put into a small tumbler a tablespoonful of
each of the following syrups: spiced ale, ginger
ale, and orange gin, with half a wineglass of
sherry; mix well together, and add hot milk
to fill the tumbler ; dust with cinnamon.

Ale, Spiced.

Put into a small tumbler a tablespoonful of
each of the following syrups: bitter ale, ginger
OTHER HOT WINTER DRINKS 109

ale, spiced ale, pale ale, and clove; mix well,
and fill up the tumbler with boiling water.
Dust with cinnamon and ginger.

Archbishop.
(See also page 101.)

Put into a small tumbler a tablespoonful of
each of the following syrups: clove, orange gin,
and claret cup, with half a teaspoonful of orange
bitters; fill up the tumbler with boiling water.

Beadle.
(See also page 101.)

Break an egg into a large tumbler, whisk it
well, and add half a wineglass of sherry, and a
tablespoonful of each of the following syrups:
clove, spiced ale, and ginger brandy, with a
dash of orange bitters; fill up the tumbler with
boiling water, whisking all the time; a dust of
nutmeg on the top.

Bishop.
(See also page 101.)

This is the same mixture as Archbishop, add-
ing half a wineglass of port wine, and dusting
with nutmeg.

Cardinal.
(See also page 102.)

Put into a small tumbler a tablespoonful of
each of the following syrups : royal champagne,
ginger champagne, ginger brandy, and cherry
brandy; fill up the tumbler with boiling water.
110 OTHER HOT WINTER DRINKS

Churchwarden.
(See also page 102.)

Put into a small tumbler a tablespoonful each
of spiced ale, lemon champagne, ginger brandy,
and cherry brandy, with a dash of port wine ;
mix well, and fill up the tumbler with boiling
water; dust a little nutmeg on the top.

Locomotive.
(See also page 103.)

Beat up an egg in a small tumbler, and add a
tablespoonful of each of the following syrups:
clove, curagoa punch, and lemon champagne ;
whisk all well together, and fill up the tumbler
with boiling water; add a dust of nutmeg.

Pope.
(See also page 103.)
This is mixed the same as Cardinal, adding a
wineglass of burgundy; dust with cinnamon.

Rumfustian.
(See also page 105.)

Beat an egg up in a small tumbler, with a
tablespoonful of each of the following syrups:
spiced ale, ginger gin, and pineapple, with a
glass of sherry; fill up the tumbler with mild
ale made hot ; dust a little nutmeg on the top.

Rum, Spiced.
(See also page 105.)
Put into a small tumbler a liqueur-glass each

of rum punch and spiced ale syrup; fill the
tumbler with hot water; add a dust of nutmeg.
OTHER HOT WINTER DRINKS wT

Seymour's Fancy.
(See also page 47.)

Put into a small tumbler a tablespoonful of
each of the following syrups: grape cham-
pagne, cherry brandy, lemon punch, and curagoa
punch ; fill up the tumbler with boiling water.

Shandy Gaff.

Mix in a small tumbler one tablespoonful of
each of the following syrups: bitter ale, ginger
ale, lemon punch, and ginger brandy; mix well,
and fill up the tumbler with boiling water.

Sleeper.
(See also page 48.)

Break an egg into a large tumbler, whisk it
well, and add a tablespoonful of each of the
following syrups: lemon punch and orange
bitters, with a liqueur-glass of rum punch
syrup; fill up the tumbler with boiling water,
and add a dust of nutmeg.

Stone Fence.

Put into a large tumbler a tablespoonful of
each of the following syrups: cherry cider,
champagne cider, with a wineglass of Irish
whisky ; fill up the tumbler with boiling water.

Tarragona.

Put into a small tumbler a tablespoonful of
each of the following syrups: curagoa punch,
lemon punch, pineapple punch, and rum punch;
mix well, and fill up the tumbler with boiling
water.
112 OTHER HOT WINTER DRINKS

Tiger’s Milk.

Put into a large tumbler a tablespoonful ot
each of the following syrups: champagne cider,
ginger brandy, cherry brandy, and clove ; mix
well, then add the white of an egg well whisked,
and fill up the tumbler with hot milk, beating all
the time; dust with nutmeg.

Union.

Put a tablespoonful of each of the following
syrups together in a small tumbler: lemon cham-
pagne, raspberry, rum punch, and curagoa
punch; mix well, and fill up the tumbler with
boiling water.

Universal Favourite.

Put into a large tumbler a tablespoonful of
each of the following syrups: grape champagne,
curacgoa punch, ginger brandy, orange bitters,
and rum punch; mix well, fill up the tumbler
with boiling water.

Velvet.

Put into a large tumbler a tablespoonful of
each of the following syrups: grape champagne,
curagoa punch, lemon punch, and nectar; add
a wineglass of sherry, mix well, and fill up the
tumbler with boiling water.

Victoria.

Beat in a large tumbler the yolk of an egg,
with a tablespoonful of each of the following
syrups: curacoa punch, vanilla, cherry brandy,
and champagne cider; mix well, and fill up the
tumbler with boiling water while stirring.
OTHER HOT WINTER DRINKS 113,

White House,

Put into a large tumbler a tablespoonful ot
each of the following syrups: curagoa punch,
ginger champagne, lemon punch, pineapple
punch, ginger brandy, and rum punch; mix
well, and fill up the tumbler with boiling water.

White Lion.

Put into a small tumbler a tablespoonful of
each of the following syrups: lemon cham-
pagne, rum punch, curagoa punch, and rasp-
berry; mix well, and fill up the tumbler with
boiling water.

Wood Lawn.

Put into a tumbler a tablespoonful of each of
the following syrups: cherry cider, plum, and
raspberry; adda wineglass of canary sack, fill
up the tumbler with boiling water.

Wyndham.

Put into a large tumbler a tablespoonful of
each of the following syrups: cherry brandy,
curacoa, champagne cider, pineapple punch,
and orange bitters; mix well, and fill up the
tumbler with boiling water.

—-00te%00e—
SUMMER DRINKS
MADE WITH SYRUPS.

All the before-mentioned drinks may be made
into summer drinks by substituting two wine-
glasses of cold water or milk, filling the tumbler
with shaved ice, mixing well, and then straining,
instead of using boiling water or hot milk or
ale.
SUMMER BEVERAGES FOR
EVENING PARTIES.

(See also some Temperance Drinks, page 123.)
ae

Cherry Brandy Squash.

Put into a large tumbler one wineglass of
sportsman’s cherry brandy and a good lump of
ice, fill three parts full with soda-water ; orna-
ment with slices of lemon, brandy cherries, and
a few white heart cherries; dash with Angostura.
Serve with a straw.

Cherry Drink.
(See also pages 116 and 125.)

Take any quantity of cherries free from stalks
and pound them in a mortar, with stones and
kernels ; put into a skillet, and to every pint of
pulp add one pint of water ; bring to the boil,
then strain through a bag or sieve, and to every
pint of juice put one pound of loaf sugar,
broken small; boil for five minutes, let it stand
until cold, then bottle. Fora drink: to a wine-
glass of this compound add an equal quantity

of water.
116 SUMMER BEVERAGES

Cherry Drink.
Another Way.

If you have no mortar, the cherries must be
picked free from stalks and stones, and put into
a pan; mash them well, then put on the fire in
a bright skillet, and to every pint of pulp add
one pint of water; bring to the boil, then strain
through a bag or sieve, and to every pint of
juice put one pound of loaf sugar, broken small;
Just bring to the boil, and when cold add a gill
of noyau and half a gill of brandy, and bottle.
About equal quantities of this syrup and cold
water will make a refreshing drink.

Cups.
See page 31.

Currant Drink.
(See also page 137.)

Take any quantity of fresh currants free from
stalks, and put them into an earthen pan ; mash
them well, then put them on the fire in a bright
skillet, and to every pint of pulp add one pint
of water; as soon as this comes to the boil,
strain through a flannel bag or sieve, and then
boil this juice for five minutes; when cold,
bottle, adding to each bottle a tablespoonful of
brandy, which will keep it from fermenting.
Icing sugar or syrup must be added to each
drink, which may be made by adding a wine-
glass full to a tumbler of hot or cold water.
Soda-water may be used.

FOR EVENING PARTIES 117

English Champagne.

Mash any quantity of grapes, white or black,
and to every pint of pulp put one pint of water;
just bring to the boil, and strain through a bag
or sieve, and to every pint of juice put a quarter
of a pound of loaf sugar, broken small; again
bring it to the boil, and when quite cold have
sufficient bottles ready (champagne bottles if
possible), well fitted with corks; fill the bottles
nearly full, and then add to each a teaspoonful
of brandy, and the like quantity of carbonate of
potash; cork tight immediately. A teaspoonful
of maraschino is an improvement.

Fig and Apple Drink.

Put into a skillet twelve fresh dried figs cut
open, four apples cut into slices without peel-
ing, and half a pound of loaf sugar, broken
small; add two quarts of water, boil for twenty
minutes, strain through a sieve, and let it stand
till cold, when it is ready to serve.

French Plum Drink.

To every quart of boiling water throw in
twelve French plums, and let them boil twenty
minutes; let them remain till cold, then add to
each quart two or three tablespoonfuls of icing
sugar, strain, and add a glass of port to each

uart; it is fit for immediate use, or may be

bottled.
8

18 SUMMER BEVERAGES

French Plum.
Another Way.

Put one pound of French plums into a mortar,
pound them well, add three tablespoonfuls of
sifted sugar and three pints of boiling water ;
set over a clear fire in a skillet and boil for
twenty minutes; strain, and add a_ small
quantity of liquid cochineal to make a good
colour. When cold, bottle for use. Half a
glass of port wine to each pint of the mixture
may be added if approved of.

Fruit Drinks,

To each pound of fruit free from stalks allow
half a pound of sifted sugar. Mash the fruit
well, place in a skillet, and add to each pound
of fruit three-quarters of a pint of water,
simmer gently for half an hour, strain through
a jelly bag, and bottle. If required to be kept
for any length of time, a wineglass of brandy to
each quart of syrup must be added to prevent
fermentation. All fruit drinks are improved by
the addition of a small quantity of lemon
juice.

A pleasant syrup may be made with liquor
from tinned peaches, pineapple, etc., by boiling
with sugar to taste, and adding lemon juice
and a tablespoonful of equal quantities of rum
and noyau to each pint.
FOR EVENING PARTIES 119

Ginger Beer.

Into a large pan put one ounce of ginger, the
peel and juice of a large lemon, half an ounce of
cream of tartar, one and a half pounds of loaf
sugar, and a dessertspoonful of syrup of ginger.
Add six quarts of boiling water, stir well, and
when cool add two ounces of yeast spread upon
a piece of toasted bread. Stir well, cover with
a cloth, and leave in a warm place for twenty-
four hours. Strain carefully to avoid disturbing
the sediment. Bottle at once, cork, and wire
down securely; store in a cool place. It will
be ready for use in three or four days.

Hop Beer.

Boil six ounces of hops in two gallons of
water for three hours, then strain, and add a
quarter of a pound of bruised ginger; boil half
an hour longer with four pounds of loaf sugar,
and when milk-warm add two ounces of ‘Encore’
yeast; let it ferment twenty-four hours, and
then bottle.

Iced Coffee and Tea.

See page 42.

Imperial Drink.
(See also page 127.)

Put two ounces of cream of tartar, the juice
and peel of two lemons, and half a pound of
loaf sugar, broken small, into a pan; pour over
the whole four quarts of boiling water, and
when cold strain and add a gill of noyau or
ratatia,
120 SUMMER BEVERAGES

Lemonade.
See also pages 58, and 127 to 129.

Lemon Squash.
See pages 45 and 130.

Orangeade.
See page 130.

Port Wine Negus.
See page 88.

Punch.
(See also pages 63 to 75.)

Take any of the lemonades, adding a little
more sugar, and when strained add a gill of
brandy and a gill of Jamaica rum.

Punch,
Another Way.

Take half a pint of brandy and half a pint of
Jamaica rum; rub the peel of two lemons and
two oranges on one pound of loaf sugar, break
small, and dissolve in one quart of boiling
water ; mix these well together, and add half a
pint of stout or strong tea, the juice of the
lemons and oranges, and more sugar if required.
FOR EVENING PARTIES 121

Raspberry Drink.
(See also page 132.)

Proceed as directed for Currant Drink, adding
three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, broken
small, and boil for five minutes; carefully
remove all scum, and when cold bottle, adding
to each bottle a teaspoonful of brandy.

Raspberry Drink.
Another Way.

Take any quantity of raspberries free from
stalks, and put them into an earthen pan; mash
them well, then put them on the fire ina bright
skillet, and to every pint of pulp add one pint
of water ; as soon as it comes to the boil, pop
through a flannel bag or sieve, and then boil
this juice for five minutes; when cold, bottle,
adding a little cochineal.

Notr.—To prepare any of these fresh-fruit
drinks, put into a tumbler two tablespoonfuls of
the juice and one tablespoonful of simple syrup
or icing sugar, and fill the tumbler with cold or

iced water.
Raspberry Vinegar Drink.
(See also page 133.)
Put two tablespoonfuls of raspberry vinegar

into a tumbler, and add sufficient hot water
to fill the tumbler; when cold it is ready to

serve.

122 SUMMER BEVERAGES

Sherry or other White Wine Negus.

Proceed as directed for Port Wine Negus
(see page 88), but add an additional quarter
of a pound of powdered sugar; when dissolved,
add a bottle of sherry, madeira, or champagne,
and a wineglass of noyau or maraschino.

Spruce Beer.

Put one pound of treacle, or the like quantity
of raw sugar, into a skillet, with two gallons of
water ; bring to the boil, and when nearly cold
add two ounces of essence of spruce and one
ounce of ‘Encore’ yeast ; ferment for twenty-
four hours, then bottle.

Strawberry Drink.

This is made exactly the same way as the
Raspberry Drink (another way), substituting
strawberries for raspberries.

Syllabub.

Put into a bowl four ounces of sifted sugar, the
juice of one lemon, also the thinly-pared rind of
the same; stir well, then add half a pint of
canary sack, half a pint of canary port, quarter
of a pint of good brandy; fill the bowl with
new milk, remove the lemon-peel, and grate a
nutmeg on the top. Ice for an hour; serve in
small glasses, giving a portion of the curd to
each person.
TEMPERANCE DRINKS,

Hot and Cold.
=
Almond Water or Drink.

Put six ounces of ground sweet almonds and
two ounces of ground bitter almonds into a
saucepan with one quart of water, and let it
simmer for a quarter of an hour; then add one
pound of loaf sugar, broken small, and when
dissolved strain through a bag orasieve. When
cold it is ready for use. A tablespoonful of
orange-flower water added is a great improve-
ment. One wineglassful of this mixture put in
a tumbler with a bottle of soda-water is a most
excellent drink.

Almond Water or Drink.
Another Way.

Take half a pound of ground sweet almonds
and two ounces of ground bitter almonds, and
put them into a stewpan; add one pound of
icing sugar and two quarts of water; bring to
the boil, and let it simmer for one hour, then
strain through a bag or sieve, and when cold
it is ready for use.
12, TEMPERANCE DRINKS

Apple Drink.

To two quarts of boiling water add eight
apples cut into slices, without peeling or coring ;
keep boiling until the apples are quite soft,
then strain through a bag or sieve, and sweeten
with icing sugar to taste. This drink is very
refreshing when quite cold.

Apple Drink.
Another Way.

Have half a gallon of water boiling, throw
into it twelve good sized apples cut into slices
without peeling, and keep them boiling until
quite tender; then strain dry, but do not let
any of the apple pulp pass through the sieve;
add enough powdered sugar to taste, and the
juice of two lemons. Let it stand until cool,
and ice when wanted.

Apple Drink.
Another Way.

Bake six or eight apples without paring them;
when quite soft, put them into a pan and pour
two quarts of boiling water over them; when
quite cold, strain, and add icing sugar to
taste.
TEMPERANCE DRINKS 125

Cherry Drink.
(See also pages 115 and 116.)

Take one pound of cherries (Kentish are the
best), free from stalks and stones ; have ready
a pint of boiling syrup (to a pint of water add
a pound of loaf-sugar; this makes a very good
syrup), and throw the cherries into it; let them
boil as fast as possible for ten minutes, add a
quart of boiling water; put the whole into a
pan, and, when cold, strain through a sieve or
bag; it is then ready for use.

Delicious Drink.

Mix together one pint of raspberries, one
pint of strawberries, and one pint of white
currants, all free from stalks; mash them well
together, then add two quarts of boiling water
and three-quarters of a pound of icing sugar ;
let it remain all night, then strain, and it is
ready for use.

Drink for Dog Days.

Pour a bottle of soda-water on a lemon ice in
a large glass or tankard. r

This is a beautifully refreshing drink, but it
should be taken with caution.

Egg Nogg, Hot.
(See also pages 37, 62, 89, 101, and 126.)
Beat up one egg ina small tumbler, with a

tablespoonful of icing sugar, then fill the tumbler
with hot milk, mix well, and flavour with a few
drops of essence of vanilla; dash with cinna-

mon.
126 TEMPERANCE DRINKS

Egg Nogg, Cold.
(See also pages 37, 61, 89, 101 and 125.)

Proceed the same as for Egg Nogg, Hot,
using cold milk and a little crushed ice; shake
well, strain, and dust with nutmeg.

Fig and Apple Drink.
See page 117.
Fruit Drinks.

Put two tablespoonfuls of any kind of fruit
syrup into a small tumbler, and add one table-
spoonful of simple syrup or icing sugar, fill up
with cold water; stir well, and add a small
lump of ice.

Fruit Drinks made with Jam.

To every quart of boiling water add a
quarter of a pound of any kind of jam rubbed
through a sieve; when cold it is ready for use.

Fresh-Fruit Drinks.

Rub a quart of any kind of fruit through a
sieve into a pan, add a quart of cold water,
mix well, and let it stand for three or four
hours; then strain through a sieve, add a
quarter of a pound of icing sugar, stir well,
and it is ready for use. For all red fruit drinks,
add a few drops of prepared cochineal.

Iced Coffee and Tea.
See page 42.
TEMPERANCE DRINKS 127

Imperial Drink.
(See also page 119.)

To six quarts of boiling water add two
ounces of cream of tartar, two lemons, peel
and juice, a quarter of a pound of honey, and
one pound and a half of icing sugar; let the
whole come to the boil, and when cold strain ;
a small quantity of ratafia may be added.

Lemonade.
(See also page 58.)

Put into a large tumbler two tablespoonfuls
of sugar and the juice of a large lemon, fill the
glass three-quarters with shaved ice, the
balance with water; shake well, and serve with
a straw.

Lemonade.
Another Way.

Put into a large tumbler the juice of two
lemons, the thinly-pared rind of one, two
tablespoonfuls of sifted sugar; half fill the glass
with finely shaved ice, shake well, strain; fill
up with soda-water, dash with orange bitters,
place two thin slices of lemon on top. Serve
with a straw.

Lemonade.
Another Way.

Put into a jug holding one pint the juice of
two lemons, thinly pared rind of one, three
tablespoonfuls of sifted sugar; stir well, fill up
the jug with boiling water, let it stand until
cold, then strain and serve.
128 TEMPERANCE DRINKS

Lemonade.
Another Way.

Take a quarter of a pint of lemon-juice, two
quarts of boiling water, and one pound of icing
sugar; mix well, and when cold it is ready for
use.

Lemonade.
Another Way.

Put a quart of water into a stewpan with two
dried figs cut in two, let it boil for one hour ;
add the peel of a lemon, and half a lemon cut
into slices, and boil these for a short time
longer; pour the whole into a pan to cool,
then strain, and sweeten with honey or icing
sugar.

Lemonade.
Another Way.

Rub six lemons on half a pound of loaf sugar,
then break the sugar up small and add two
quarts of boiling water, the juice of six lemons,
and two tablespoonfuls of orange-flower water ;
let it remain till cold, then strain through a bag
or sieve, and it is ready for use.

Lemonade, Fermented.

To two gallons of boiling water add one
pound of loaf sugar and half a pint of lemon
juice; ferment with one ounce of ‘ Encore’
yeast, let it stand twenty-four hours, and then
bottle.
TEMPERANCE DRINKS 129

Lemonade, Ginger.

Boil twelve pounds and a half of lump sugar
for twenty minutes in ten gallons of water;
clear it with the whites of six eggs. Bruise
half a pound of common ginger, boil with the
liquor, and then pour it on ten lemons peeled.
When cold, put it in a cask with two table-
spoonfuls of yeast, the lemons sliced, and half
an ounce of isinglass. Bung up the cask the
next day, and it will be ready in two weeks.

Lemonade, Orange.

Put into a large tumbler one tablespoonful of
icing sugar, the juice of half a lemon, and two
oranges; then nearly fill the glass with shaved
ice and the balance with water; shake or stir
well, ornament with berries, and serve with a
straw.

Lemonade, Seltzer.

Put into a large tumbler the juice of one large
lemon, two tablespoonfuls of icing sugar, some
broken ice; fill up with syphon seltzers, stir
with a spoon, and serve.

Lemon Flip, Hot.

Put into a small tumbler and beat up one egg,
with a tablespoonful of icing sugar, and fill up
the tumbler with hot water; mix well, and

flavour with essence of lemon.
130 TEMPERAN

E DRINKS

Lemon Flip, Cold.

Mix the same as for Lemon Flip, Hot, using
cold water and crushed ice.

Lemon-Squash.
(See also page 45.)
Put into a tumbler a teaspoonful of icing
sugar, with the juice of half a lemon, and pour
on these a bottle of lemonade.

Lemon Squash.
Another Way.

Take the juice of eight lemons, sweeten,
allowing a tablespoonful of sifted sugar to each
lemon. Put into a clean skillet with a pint of
water, and simmer gently till the sugar is dis-
solved. Beat up the white and shell of one
egg, add to the syrup, and stir well till the
mixture boils ; let it boil for a minute or two,
and pour gently through a jelly bag. When
cold, add a quarter of an ounce of citric acid,
bottle, and cork tightly. When required to
use, put five drops of Angostura bitters in a
soda glass, shake round the glass, then add a
wineglass of the lemon mixture, fill up with
soda-water, place a thin slice of lemon on top,
and serve with two straws.

Orangeade.

Proceed as directed for Lemonade, using the
juice and peel of the orange in place of the
lemon, and sweeten to taste.
TEMPERANCE DRINKS 131

Orangeade.
Another Way.
To half a pint of orange-juice add two quarts
of boiling water and one pound of icing sugar;
when cold it is ready for use.

Orangeade.
Another Way.

Dissolve one pound of icing sugar in two
quarts of boiling water, add the rind and juice
of six oranges ; let it stand till cold, then strain
through a bag or sieve, and serve.

Orange Drink.

Slice four oranges and two lemons, without
peeling, and put them into a pan, with half a
pound of icing sugar; pour over them two
quarts of boiling water, and when cold strain,
and it is ready for use.

Orange Drink.
Another Way.
Mix equal parts of orange wine and water,
which will be found a very nice drink.

Orgeat Water.

Blanch half a pound of sweet almonds with
one dozen bitter ones, pound them well to-
gether in a mortar, adding a little orange-flower
water, two pints of water, and sugar to taste,
mixing all together, afterwards straining ; add
rough ice, when it is ready for use.
132 TEMPERANCE DRINKS

Peach Drink.

Take a tin of preserved peaches, mash them
well up with the syrup, and add two quarts of
boiling water; let it stand till cold, then
strain; add sugar to taste, and it is ready to
serve.

Quince Drink.
Proceed exactly as directed for Apple Drink.

Raspberry Drink.

(See also page 121.)
_ Rub a quart of ripe raspberries through a
sieve into a pan, and add one quart of cold
water; let it stand for a few hours, then
strain, and it is ready for use. Sweeten to
taste.

Note.—Almost any other fresh fruit may be
treated the same way. With many of the
plum class the juice of a lemon is a great im-
provement, but will require an extra quantity
of icing sugar.

Raspberry Squash.

Put into a large soda tumbler one table-

spoonful of raspberry syrup, one tablespoonful
of lemon squash, a lump of ice; fill up to three
parts with soda water; ornament with .a slice
of lemon and a few red and white raspberries.

Serve with a straw.

TEMPERANCE DRINKS 13.

a

Raspberry Vinegar.
(See also page 121.)

Take ripe, dry raspberries, and pour over
sufficient good malt vinegar to cover ; let them
stand for three or four days, stirring occasion-
ally with a silver spoon. On the fourth day
strain through a sieve, and let them drain for
some hours; measure the juice, and add equal
quantities of good white sugar, put into a lined
préserving pan and let it gently boil for six
minutes. Carefully remove the scum as it
rises. When cold, bottle, and cork well. To
make an agreeable drink, add a wineglass to a
tumbler of water, or soda-water. It will be
found very useful as a cooling drink in illness.

Raspberry Vinegar Drink.
(See also page 121.)

Put two tablespoonfuls of raspberry vinegar
into a small tumbler, and fill up with cold water.

Rizine and Milk.

Boil a tablespoonful of rizine in a pint of
milk, sweeten with icing sugar, and when cold
strain; add a little grated nutmeg. A glass of
wine, or a tablespoonful of brandy, may be
added if desired.

9

134 TEMPERANCE DRINKS

SUMMER DRINKS.
(See also page 114.)
Many of the British wines, mixed with an
equal quantity of water, with a little ice, make
very cool and refreshing drinks.

WINTER DRINKS.

The instructions given for the making of
summer drinks may be closely followed, only
substituting hot for cold water, and serving as
hot as possible. A great favourite is made as
follows :

Elderberry Punch.

Put two bottles of elderberry wine into a
bowl, with a quarter of a pound of icing sugar
and three pints of boiling water ; mix well, then
add a lemon cut into slices, and grate some
nutmeg on the top. Mulberry wine may be
substituted.

RESTORATIVE DRINKS.

Ale Flip.

Break one egg into a large tumbler and beat
it up; add a tablespoonful of each of the fol-
lowing syrups: Pale ale, ginger gin, and spiced
ale; then pour in, whisking all the time, half
a pint of boiling water. Dust of nutmeg on

top.
Aniseed Cordial.

To one pint of plain syrup add one pint of
good brandy and thirty drops of aniseed syrup ;
shake well. Use as a cordial either mixed with

water or not, as required.
136 RESTORATIVE DRINKS

Baltimore Egg Nogg.

Beat the yolks of sixteen eggs and twelve
tablespoonfuls of pulverized loaf sugar to the
consistency of cream; beat into this two-thirds
of a grated nutmeg, then pour in half a pint of
good brandy or Jamaica rum and two wine-
glasses of Madeira wine. Have ready the
whites of the sixteen eggs whipped to a stiff
froth, and beat them well into the above
mixture, and then stir in six pints of good rich
milk. Made in the above manner, this forms
an excellent drink for debilitated people and a
nourishing diet for consumptives.

For other Noggs, see pages 61 and 89.

Barley Water.

Mix one tablespoonful of prepared barley
to a smooth paste with two tablespoonfuls of
water, add the juice and thinly-pared rind of
one lemon ; pour on boiling water to make up
a pint, stirring all the time; set aside to get
cold, sweeten to taste. This can be made
without the lemon, and an equal quantity of
good milk added to it, when it makes a nourish
ing, digestible food for invalids and infants.

Beef Tea Cordial.

Make half a pint of beef tea by adding the
required quantity of boiling water to one large
dessert-spoonful of bovril ; ice for an hour ; add
one dessert-spoonful of brandy. Serve with
finger strips of dry toast.
RESTORATIVE DRINKS 137

Brandy, Burnt.
See page 38.

Currant Drink.
(See also page 116.)

A useful drink in illness is made by pouring
one pint of boiling water over one pound of
black-currant jam; let it stand until nearly
cold; strain through a sieve. When cold it is
ready for use.

Ginger Cordial.

To one pint of the best brandy add one pint
of plain syrup, four ounces of essence or syrup
of ginger; strain and bottle. When required
for use add one tablespoonful to one wineglass
of water. A useful cordial may be made by
adding the ginger to the syrup without the

brandy.

Hot Spiced Rum.

Put into a small tumbler one or two lumps of
loaf sugar, half a teaspoonful of mixed allspice,
one wineglass of Jamaica rum, and a small
piece of fresh butter. Then fill up the tumbler
with hot water, and grate a little nutmeg on

top.
This will be found exceedingly beneficial in
the case of sore throats and colds.

138 RESTORATIVE DRINKS

Orange Gin.

Steep one ounce of dried orange-peel (equal
parts of Seville and China or Tangerine is pre-
ferable) in one pint of gin; let it remain for ten
days, strain, then add one ounce of syrup of
ginger and three-quarters of a pound of loaf
sugar; strain through paper, bottle, and cork
well. This makes a good tonic.

Orange Quinine.

To a pint bottle of ordinary orange wine add
ten grains of quinine in powder, cork well, and
let it stand for a few days. A wineglassful may
be taken occasionally as a tonic, or a pleasant
tonic drink may be made by adding a split
bottle of soda-water to half a wineglass of the
Orange mixture.

Peach and Honey.
See page 46.
Port Wine Mixture.

Half fill a wineglass with good brandy, fill up
with port wine, and grate a quarter of a nutmeg
on the top. This mixture is useful in cases of
diarrhoea, where there is much exhaustion.

Prairie Oyster.
See page 85.
RESTORATIVE DRINKS 139

Raspberry Shrub.
See page 78.

Raspberry Vinegar.
See pages 121 and 133.

Rizine and Milk.
See page 133.
Rock and Rye.

For this drink, which is an excellent remedy
against sore throats, etc., the best rock candy
syrup and the best rye whisky must be used. It
is made by putting half a tablespoonful of rock
candy syrup into a large wineglass, and adding
rye whisky to taste.

Rue Gin.

To one pint of good English gin add half a
pint measure of rue sprigs nicely picked and
washed ; steep for one month, when it will be
ready for use.

Sherry and Egg.

Beat the yolk of a new-laid egg with a dessert-
spoonful of sifted sugar, add a wineglass of
good sherry and ten drops of syrup of cinna-
mon ; dust with nutmeg, and serve with fingers
of toast or sponge rusks.

Soda Nectar.
See page 61.
14¢ RESTORATIVE DRINKS

Stimulant Mixture.
For Lowness of Spirits, Fainting.

To five ounces of peppermint water add two
ounces of orange syrup, half an ounce of car-
bonate of ammonia, and one ounce and a half
of compound tincture of cardamoms; shake
well. A tablespoonful to be taken occasionally.

Turkey Oyster.
See page 85.

Whisky Cordial.

Beat the yolk of a new-laid egg with a
dessert-spoonful of sifted sugar, add a quarter
of a pint of hot milk, add a wineglass of good
whisky, dust with nutmeg; serve with toast
fingers.

ALPHABETICAL INDEX. ;

In the following List the letters (S.D.
is grouped amongst Summer Drinks, an

signify that the Recipe
ey (WD)

signifies a Winter Drink of the same name,

ANSINTHE, 36
ene ail, at

Ain Fond Buseh (8.D.), 63
A la Romaine Punch (S.D.),

64
Ate Flip or et Hot (W. D.),
(ree), 86, 108, 135
Posset (4200), 100, 108

Punch (8.D.), 65
Sangaree (S.D.). 75
Mfanother, W.1.), 109
Spiced, 108
Almond Drink (fo), 123
American Lemonade, 58
Punch (W.D.), 89
see Ee WED)
Anisced Cordial, 1
Apple Drink (free), 124
Jack Sour, 81
Punch (S.D.), 65
‘Toddy (S.D.), 84
(another, W.D.), 98
Archbishop (f700), 101, 109
Arrack Punch (W.D.), 90
Arctic Regions, 37
Abid Mins Mile (Fabey Diiaks)
(¢2vo),
(anottier, W.D.), 161
Avenue Charmer, 37
pChammer

Lemonade, 38

BADMINTON Cup, 5r
Balaclava Cup, 31
Baltimore Egg Nogg, 136
Barbadoes Panch (8.D.), 65
Barley Water, 136

Beadle (/zv0), ‘tor, 109
Beef Tea Cordial, 136

es

Beer, Ginger, 119
Beer, Hop, 119
Spruce, 122
Beverages, Summer.
ties, 115-122
Bimbo Punch (W.D.), 9
Bishop (x00), ror, 109
Black Stripe, 38, 109
Blue Blazer, 102
Bombay Punch (W.D.), 90
Bosom Caresser, 38
Boston Float, 38
Bourbon Fix, 52
Bizz, 53
Sour, 8:
Brandan Punch (W.D.),

For Par-

and Soda, 38
Burnt, 38, 137
amperelle, 39
Cocktail, 24
Grusta, 30

Wi
Julep, 56
Punch (S.D.

Sling, 76.
Smash, 79
Sour, 82,
Toddy (S.D.), 8
(another, W.D.), 08
Bull's Milk, 39

CALIFORNIAN LEMONADE, 59
Canadian Punch (S.D.), 65

142

Cardinal (#200), 102, 109
Catawba Cobbler, 21
Century Club Punch (S.D.), 65
Chablis Cup, 3r
Champagne Cobbler, 22
Cocktail, 25 |
Cup, 32 |
English, 117
Flip (S.D.), 55
Julep, 5
Punch (S.D.), 65
Smash, 80
Sour, 82
Cherry Brandy Squash, 115
Drink (¢hree), 115, 116, 125
Shrub, 77
Churchwarden (¢200), 102, 110
Cider Cup, 32
Nectar, 6x
Nogg (8.D.), 6r
Punch (S.D.}, 66
Charet Soe 22
up ( four), 32
mae 33°
Punch (S.D.), 65
Cobblers, 21
Catawba, 21
Champagne, 22
Claret, 22
Hock, 22
Monagahela, 22
Port Wine, 23
Rhine Wine, 23
Sauterne, 23
Sherry, 23
Whisky, 24
Cocktails, 24
Absinthe, 24
Brandy, 24
Champagne, 25
Coomassie, 25

st Indian, 25

25
Fancy Brandy, 26
Faney Gin, 26
Gin, 26
Japanese, 26, 27
Jersey (¢200), 26
Manhattan, 27 |

INDEX

Cocktails—continned
Martini, 27
Newport, 2
Saratoga, 28
Sherry
Soda, 28

Sunrise, 28

Turf Club, 29
Vermouth, 29
Whisky, 29
(Rye, or Bourbon), 29

Coffee, Teed (three), 42, 119, 126

Cold Punch (S.D.), 67

Colleen Bawn, 4o

Columbia Skin, 103

Coomassie Cockt

5
| Cordials, Aniseed, 135

Beef Tea, 136
Ginger, 137
Whisky, 140

| Corpse Reviver, 4o

Cough Mixture, 4o
Crimean Cup (/:00), 33, 34
Crustas, 30

Cups, 31
Badminton, 31
Balaclava, 3i
Chablis, 3
Champagne, 32
Cider, 32
Glaret (Your), 92, 33
Crimean (¢200), 33, 34
Freemason, 34
Hock, 32
Loy +35
Porter, 35
Race Day, 35
Rochester, 36
‘Tennis, 36

Curagoa Punch (S.D.), 67

Currant Drink, 116, 137
Shrub, 77

Dexicrous DRINK, 125
Directions, General, »
Dog Days, Drink for, 125

INDEX

Dog's Nose, 40
Drink for Dog Days, 125

Fruit, 118, 126
Drinks, Fruit (made with Jam),
126
(other), 126
Some Restorative, 135-140
Some Temperance, 123-134
Summer, 2x
Summer and Winter, Made
with British Wines, 134
Summer, Made with Syrups,
114
Winter, 100, 108, 134
Dry Punch (S.D.

Duke of Now Punch (S.D.), |

East a CockraiL, 25 |

Egg Cocktail, 25
Flip (W.D.), (éce0), 87
Hot, or Ale Flip (W.D.), 86

Lemonade,
Nogg (S. ewe) 37, 62

(another, W.D.), 89
Baltimore, 136
(another, cold, S.D.),
126

(another, hot, W.D.),
pase: "Panel (W.D.), 92,

English Champagne, 7
Milk Punch (W.D.}, or
Punch (W.D.), 9
Rum Shrub, 78

Eye-Opener, 4o

Fay Kiss, 4r
Fancy Brandy Cocktail, 26
Sour, 82
Drinks, 36-51
Gin Cocktail, 26
Fermented Lemonade, 128
Fig and Apple Drink, 117, 126
Fixes or Twists, 51
Bourbon, 52
Brandy, 51
Gin, st

|
Drinks, Fresh Fruit, 126° 132 |

143

Fixes or Twists—continued
Jamaica Rum, 52
Rye, 52
Si. Croix, se
Santa Cruz, 52
Whisky (Bourbon, Scotch

or Irish), 52

| Fiezes’ 53
Bourbon, 53
Brandy, 53
Gin, 53
Golden, 53
Morning Glory, 54
Rye, 54
Silver, 54
Whisky, 54

Flash of Lightning, 41

Flip Flap, 41

Flips (S.D.), 55

(Ww.
Ale or Egg Hot (W.D.), 86
{another, W.D.), 108,

135
Avenue (S.D.), 55
Brandy (W.D.), 86
Champagne (S.D.), 55
Egg (W.D.), (éo), 87
Lemon (hot, .W.D.), 129
(cold, S.D,
Port (S.D,), 55
Rum (W,D.), 87
Sherry (S.D.), 55
Freemason Cup, 34
French Plum Drink, 117
(another), 118
Fresh-Fruit Drinks, 126, 132
Fruit Drinks, 118
{other), 126
Fresh), 126, 132
made with Jam), 126

GENERAL Directions, x
General ee Egg Nogg

D.), 8
Georgd IW Punch (S.D.), 68
Gin and Tansy, 4x
Wormwood, 42
Cocktail, 26
Crusta, 30

144

Gin Fix, 51

Fizz, 53

Julep, 56

Orange, 138

Punch (S.D.), (¢o), 68

Sangaree, 76

Sling, 79

Smash, 80

Sour, 82

Toddy (S.D.), 84

(W.D.), 98

Ginger Beer, 119

Cordial, 137

Lemonade, 129
Glasgow Punch (S.D.), 69
Golden Fizz, 53

Slipper, 42
Gothic Punch (S.D,), 69
Grassot Punch (S.D.), 69

Heap oF Comrorr, 42
Hock Cobbler, 22
Cup, 32
Hop Beer, 119
Hot Spiced Rum, 137

Icep Corrre (three), 42, 119,
126

Tea, 43, 119, 126
Imperial Drink, 119, 127
Punch (8.D.), 69

Italian Lemonade, 60

Jaaica Rum F.
Japanese Cocktail,
Jersey Cocktail (/2v0), 26
John Collins, 4
Juleps (S.D.},
Brandy, 56
Champagne, 56
Gin, 56
Mint, 57
Pineapple, 57
Whisky, 57

Kirscnwasser PuNcnt (S.D.),

70
Knickerbein, 44
Knickerbocker, 44

|
|

|
|

INDEX

L'Amour Pousse (fo), 44
La Patria Puneh (S.D.),'0
Lemonades (six

American, 58
A

58, 120, 127

For Parties (/2v0), 5
Ginger, 129
Ttalian, 60
Orange, 129
Plain, 60
Seltzer, 1
World's Fair,

Lemon Flip (cold, S.D.)

(hot, W.D.

, 129

Squash (three), 45, 130
Light Guard Punch (8.D.), 70
Locomotive (tv), 103, 110
Louisiana Punch (W.D.), 9
Loving Cup, 35

145
Manhattan Cocktail, 27

Martini Cocktail, 27
Medford Rum Punch (S.D.),
70
Smash, 80

Sour, 82
Milk Punch (W.D.), 92
Tiger's (S.D.), 49
(W.D.), 112

1 Julep, 57
Mississippi Punch (S.D.), 71
Monagahela Cobbler, 22°" *
Morning Call, 45
Glory Fizz, 54
Mother's Milk, 46
Mulled Claret,’ 103
Port (in verse), 103,
Wine and Eggs, 104
without Eggs, 104

National Guarp  Punci
(S.D.), 7
Nectars, 6
Cider, 6x

Soda, 61, 139
INDEX 145

Negus, Port Wine (/2v2), 83, 120
Sherry, or other’ White
Wine, 121
Soda, 88
New York Punch (W.D.), 92
Newport Cocktail, 27
Noggs (S.D.), 6r
(W.D.), 8

Ci
Egg (
another, W.D.)
fanother, cold,
126
(another

, hot, W.D.),

Gen, Harrison Egg (W.D.),

85
Sherry Egg (S.D.), 62
(another, W.D.), 89
Soda (S.D.), 62
Nonsuch Punch (S.D.), 72
Nuremburg Punch (WD.), 92

Onp DeLaware  Fisninc
Puncu (8.D.), 71
Orchard Punch (8.D.), 72

Orange Drink (¢200), 132
Gin, 138
Lemonade, 129
Paneh (W.D.
Quinine, 138

Orangeade (#iree), 120, 130, 13

Orgeat Punch (S.D.), 72
Water, 131

Other Hot’ Winter Drinks, 108

Oxford Punch (W.D.), 93

Oysters, Prairie, 85, 138
‘Turkey, 85, 140

2

Parties (Suse:
RAGES FOR, 115-122

Party Lemonade (#:0o}, 59, 60
Peach and Honey, 46, 138

Drink, 132
Philadelphia Punch (S.D.), 72
Pick-me-up, 46
Pineapple Julep, 57

Punch (S.D.), 72

Plain Lemonade, 60
Pope (70), 105, 110
Port, Mulled (in verse by Jerry
Thomas), 103
Port Wine Cobbler, 23
Flip (S.D.), 55
Mixture, 138
Negus (/7v2), 88, 120
Punch (S.D.). 73
(W.D.), 93
Sangaree, 76
Porter Cup, 35
(or Portéree) Sangaree, 76
Possets, Ale (/z02), 100, 108
Pousse Café (f200), 46
Prairie Oyster, 85, 138
Preface, ix
President Lincoln Punch (W.D.)

93
Punches (S.D.), 63
(W.D,), 8

-D.), 89

A la Ford (8.D.), 63

Ala Romaine(S.D.), (Aree),
6.

+ 64
‘Ale (S.D.), 65
Apple (S.D.), 65
American (W, D.), 89
Tea (W.D.), 99
Arrack (W.D.), 90
Barbadoes (S.D.), 65
Bimbo (W.D.), 99
Bombay (W.D.), 9°
Brandy (S.D.), 65
Brandy and Rum (W.D.),

or
Canadian (S.D.), 65
Century Club (S/D.), 66
Champagne (S.D.), €6
Cider (S.D.), 66
Claret (S.D.}, 66
Cold (S.D.), 67
Curagoa (S.D.), 67
Dry (S.D.), 67
Duke of Norfolk ee ), 6
Elderberry (W.D.), 91, 134
English (W.D.), 9¢

Milk (W.D.), ox
George IV. BD, 68
Gin (S.D.), (¢200), 68

146

Punches—continued
Glasgow (S.D.), 69
Gothic (S.D.
Grassou (SD)
Imperial (S.D.},
Kirschwasser (
La Patria (

9
Medford Ram (S.D.), 70
Milk (W.D.), 92
Mississippi (S.D.),

National Guard (8.D.), 72

New York (W.D.), 92

Nonsuch (S.D.), 77

Nuremburg (W. B.), 92
Old Delaware Fishing
(S.D.), 74

Orange (W.D.), 92

Orehard (S.D.}, 72

Orgeat (S.D.), 7:

Oxford (W.D,

Philadelphia (8°99, 72

Pineapple (S.

Port Wine (S.D.), 7.

(another, W.D.), 9
President Lincoln (Ww2b.),

Queen (8.D.), 7

Raspberry (W. 8), 93

Regent (W.D.),

Rocky Mountain (8.D.), 73

Roman (S.D.), 3

Royal (W.D.

Ruby (W.D.

Rum (S.D.
(another, W.D.), 94

St. Charles (8.D.), 74

“a
Regiment

(W.D.), 95
Spread Eagle (W.D.), 95
Summer (SD.), (three) 4,

ee
a (W.

Thirty second (W.D!), 98
Tip-Top (S.D.), 75

| Raspberry Drink’ (¢2e0),
2

INDEX

Punches—continued
Uncle Toby (W.D.), 96
United Service (W.B.), 96
rsity (W.D.

6b. 17
+, i ae, 97
ons iw. D.); 9%

QUEEN PuNcH (S.D.), 73
Quince Drink, 132
Quinine, Orange, 138

Race Day Cup, 35
rat,

13

Punch (W.D.), 93

Shrub, 78, 139

Squash, 132

Vinegar, £33, 139

Drink, 128, 133

Rattle-snake, 47
Regent Punch (W.D.), 94
Restorative Drinks, 135-140
Rhine Wine Cobbler, 23
Rizine and Milk, 133, 139
Rochester Cup, 3
Rock and Rye, 139
Rocky Mountain Panch (S.D.),

73.
Roman Punch (S.D.), 73
Royal Punch (W.D.), 94
Ruby Punch (W.D.),94
Rue Gin, 139
Rum Flip (W.D.), 87
Hot Spiced, 137
Punch (S.D.), 73
(W.D.), 04
Shrub, 78
Sorbet, 47
Spiced, ros, 110
‘Today’ (W-D.), 99
Rumfustian (200), 105, x10
Rye Cocktail, 29
x) 52
22, 54
Sout, 85

INDEX 147

St: Cuanues Punct (S:D.), 74
St. Croix Fix, 5:
um Pusch (S.D,), 74
Sour, 83
Sangarees, 75
‘Ale (S.D.), 7:
(anoles W..z00
Brandy, 76
Gin, 76
Port, 76
Porter (or Porteree), 76
Sherry, 76
Santa Cruz Fix, 52
Smash, 80
Sour, 83
Saratoga Brace Up, 47
Cocktail, 28
Sauterne Cobbl

§ 9
Seymour's Fancy 8...
pone (SD), 47

Shandy Gaff (s D), 47
fancther, WW. Mp), ur
Sherry Blush, 48
Cobbler, 23
Cocktail, 28
Egg. 139
gg Nogg (S.D.), 62
(another, W.D.), 89
Flip (S.D.),

or other WhikSwine Negus,

122
Punch (S.D,
Sangaree, an me
Sour, 83

Shrubs, Brandy, 77
Cherry, 77
Currant, 77

iglish ‘Rum, 78

Raspberry, 78, 139

iver Bes
Sixty-ninth ‘Regiment Punch
(W-D) 95
Sleeper (S.D.), 4)
fanother, WD, ), mex
Slings, Brandy, 79

“Gin, 79

Slings, Whisky, 79
Smashes, Brandy, 79
Champagne, 80
Gin, 80
Medford Rum, 80
Santa Cruz, 80
Whisky, 81
Soberer, 48
Soda Cocktail, 28
Nectar, 61, 139
Negus, 88
Nogy (S.D.), 62
Some Restorative Drinks, 135-

140
Some ‘Temperance Drinks, 123-

134
Sours, 8
Apple Jack, 81
Bourbon, 8r
Brandy, 82
Champagne, 82
Faney Brandy, 82
Gin, 82
Medford Rum, 82
Rye, 83
St. Croix, 83
Santa Cruz, 83
Sherry, 83
Whisky, 83
South-West, 48
Spiced Ale, 108
Rum, 105
fanother), x10
fanother), 137
Spread Eagle Punch (W.D.),

98
Spruce Beer, x22
Stimulant Mixture, 140
Stone Fence (S.D.), 4!
(another, W.D.), 111
‘Wall: 49
Straights, 83
Strawberry Drink, 122
Summer Beverages for Parties,

115
Drinks, 2
made with British
Wines, 134

made with Syrups, 114
148

Summer Punch (S.D.), 74, 120
Sunbeam, 49

Sunrise Cocktail, 28

Swizzles, 84

Syllabub, 122

‘TARRAGONA, tt
Tea, Iced, 43, 119, 126

Punch (W.D.), 93
‘Temperance Drinks, 123-134
Tennis Cup, 36
Thirty-Second Punch (W.D.),

95
‘Thomas, Jerry, ‘Mulled Port’
in verse, 103
‘Tiger's Milk (S.D.), 112
(White, S.D.), 49
ip-Top Punch (S.D.), 75
Touldy 1$.D.), 84
V.D.),

98
pote (S5D.), 84
(another, W.D.), 98
Brandy (S.D.), 84
(another, W.D.), 98
Gin (S.D.), 84
(another, W.D.), 98
Rum (W.D.), 99.
Whisky (S.D:), 84
(another,
‘Tom and Jerry, 106
origin of, 106
Collins, 5
‘Turf Club Cocktail
Turkey Oyster, 85, 140
‘Twists or Fixes, 51

UNcLE Tony PuNcHt(W.D.},96
Union, 112

United Service Punch (W.D.),96
Universal Favourite, 112
University Punch (

.), 96 |

VANILLA PuncH (S.D.), 75

INDEX

Vauxhall Punch (W.D.), 96
Velvet (S.D ), 50

(another, WW.D.), 112
Vermouth Cocktail, 29
Victoria, 112

Punch (W.D.), 97,
Vinegar, Raspberry, 133, 139

West Nba Puncut (S.D.),

Whisky ‘coties 24

Cockta
(Rye oF Bourbon), 29
Cordial, 140

Groaia 30

eae (Bourbon, Scotch or
Trish), 52
Fi

54
Julep, 57
Punch (W.D.), (four), 97
Sling, 79
Smath, Br
Sour, 83
Toddy (S.D.), 84
(another, W.D.), 9
White House, 113
Lion (S.D.), 5°
(another, W.D.), 113
‘Tiger's Milk, 49
Wine (mulled) and Eggs, x04
without Eggs, 104
Wines (British) for Summer and
‘Winter Drinks, 134
Winter Drinks (various),

100,

(other, hot), 108
Wood Lawn, 113
World's Fair Lemonade, 60
Wyndham (S.D.), 51
(another, W.D.), 113

Yorxsiire Puncn (W.D.), 98

THE END.

‘AND SONS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD.

Second Edition, revised to date.
THE
MAKERS OF BRITISH INDIA.
Historical and Biographical.
From 1600 to the Present Time.
By W. H. DAVENPORT ADAMS.

With a Map and 12 Illustrations. Crown 8vo., 482 pages, cloth,
price 4s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 5s.

“The story is told in simple language, without any

si x iving after effect, and
main facts are brought into proper relief, and not buried under a mass of detail.”
Pall Mall Gazette.

‘Deserving of perusal of every European in India.'—Avahabad Morning
Pe

“[mportant as is the place India occupies in modern British history, compara-
tively few people are thoroughly acquainted with the story of the development
of that great Empire, All the facts haye here been brought within easy range
X good map is provided, and the appendices will prove invaluable to the student
—Dundee Advertise

©A suecinet history of the gradual development of the British power in India.’
—The Mail and Times Weekly.

(phe characters of Clive, Warren Hastings, Wellesley, and other heroes of
India, are splendidly depicted.’—Newcastle Daily Chronicle.

«Highly calculated to stiniulate inquiry, and to supply information on which
an piffigent and sound judgment can be formed by the people at home about
our great dependency.'—Aberdeen Journal.

‘Tris useful, to say the least of it, o be able to gain so easily a bird's-eye view
of the growth of British rule in our largest dependency.’ —Brad/ord Odsey ver.

‘th its map and illustrations, chronological table, bibliography
od ant in ftselt a small reference library of the subject. sear.

The author has successfully addressed himself to the task of telling the story

oF eg aeenel growth of the British Indian Empire.'—Tines of India.

© superbly got up volume of sterling educational interest.'—Liverfoo! Post.
istory of British sway in the East.—Morning

and copious

“A handy compendium of the
Post.

London: c ohn Hogg, 13, Paternoster Row, EC. a]

NEW HANDBOOK OF DOMESTIC MEDICINE, Erc.
Crown 8vo., 496 pp., cloth, price 6s.

Man and his Maladies; or, The Way to Health. A
Popular Handbook of Physiology and Domestic Medicine, in
Accord with the Advance in Medical Science. By A. E.
Buiwcer, B.A., M.D., B.Sc, F.R.C.P.E., Author cf Depres-
sion,’ etc.

Part I—Tue Science or MEpIcINE.
Part Il.—Tue Art or HEALIN

5 is an excellent book, which ought to be of great value in the homes of

intelligent people.'—Manchester Examiner.

* The style of this book der at the outset. . . . It is a welcome
ads its kit hich have gone before,'—Glasgow Herald.

ble, practical guide to physical well-bein;

which is so closely allied to it.'"—S/ectator.

‘The book deserves to be not merely read, but studied.'"—Glasgow Daily Mail.

1g and the mental well-being

POPULAR LEGAL HANDBOOKS ny ALMARIC RUMSEY,
Barrister-at-Law, Professor of Indian Jurisprudence at King’s College,
Feap. 8vo,, strongly bound, price 1s. each. Revised to date.

1. Will-Making Made Safe and Easy. An Aid
to Testators, Gentle and Simple, Male and Female, Married
and Single, Infant and Adult, Civil and Military, on Land and
at Sea, at Home and Abroad ; with a Great Variety of Forms
and Rules of Descent of Real and Personal Property on
Intestacy.

‘Te seems to be the best ofall books of its kind.’

‘His directions are clear, his law sound.'—Law Yournat.

g ‘ing many a man from leaving that doubtful legacy—

'—Literary World. :

clergymen, too, who are often called upon suddenly to make the wills of
ers, it will be very helpful. It is remarkably concise and clear in

ind practical in its suggestions."—Guardian.

2. The Way to Prove a Will and to take out
Administration. Containing Full Instructions Where, How,
and When to Apply; with Alphabetical Tables, Forms of
Oaths, Bonds, etc. ; Rules for Personal Applications ; and
other Information required for obtaining Probate or Administra-
tion.

‘Contains much useful information arranged witha careful regard for readiness
of access. A special feature is the forms, to which much labour has been devoted."
—Law Times.

ieeeatore asd next-of-kin will find it a useful book.’—Literary World.

“Tendon: John Hogg, 13, Paternoster Row, E.C.

kind.

Athenaum,

POPULAR COOKERY BOOKS.

Medium 16mo., 128 pages, boards, 1s. Printed in brown ink.
4. What shall we have for Breakfast? cr,
Everybody's Breakfast Book. Containing over 175 Recipes.
By Acnes C. Marrianp, Author of ‘The Afternoon Tea
Book,’ ‘ The Cookery Primer,’ etc.
‘ An epicure, or rather, a glutton, might, after reading Miss Maitland’s book,

iswer her title question by saying, ‘ Everything you have got here, please.” Tt
a worthy little book

Second Edition. Eleventh Thousand.
Dedicated to H.R.H. the Duchess of ALBANY.
Medium 16mo,, 128 pp. boards, price 1s. Printed in brown ink.
2. The Afternoon Tea Book. How to make Tea,

Coffee, Chocolate, Cakes, Scones, Rolls, Sandwiches, Cooling
Drinks, and Ices. By AGNEs C. Marr
* A most useful little manual.’—Glasgow Herald.
Crown 8vo., 160 pp., price Is., strongly bound in linen cloth.
8. The Cookery Primer for School and Home Use.
s C. "MAITLAND.

cry among housewives that cookery books are made for the

With this book as a guide, the anxious housewife, with ever so

light a purse, will find her difficul n pr ing good, nourishing food wonder-

fully lightened.’—Newcastle Daily Leader
Eleventh edition, crown 8vo., 392 pp., cloth, price 3s. 6d.

4, Dainty Dishes. Receipts collected by Lapy
HAnrIEt St. CLatR (late Countess Minster).

“A design so excellent, and an accomplishment so complete, may well recom
mend this volume to the consideration of th lies of thiskingdom. If economy.
i with an agreeable and nutritious diet, by all means let the fact
be well known.'—British Mail.

Second Edition. Tenth Thousand.
Crown 8vo., 176 pp», linen cloth, price ts.

5. Toothsome Dishes: Fish, Flesh, and Fowl ; Soups,
Sauces, and Sweets. Nearly One Thousand Recipes, with
Household Hints and other Useful Information. Edited by
Carniz DaVENrort.

‘Just the work for a domestic manager to consult and esteem.’ —Daily
Telegraph.

Crown 8vo., 128 pp. boards, price 1s.
6. The Housewife’s Handy-book. Three Hundred
and Fifty Useful Every-day Recipes. By C. J. S. Tuomvsox,
Author of ‘The Cult of Beauty,’ ‘The Best Thing to Do,’ etc.

London: John Hogg, 13, Paternoster Row, E.C,

BY ROYAL
APPOINTMENT.

CADBURYS
COCOA

Absolately Pape,
therefore Best.

TAKE CARE when drinking
Cocoa to have the pure article only,
as many so-called “Pure” Cocoas
contain added matter that is not only
unnecessary, but sometimes positively
harmful.

CADBURY’s cocoa

1S ABSOLUTELY PURE,
and untampered with, and can be

taken with the greatest benefit in
Childhood, in Youtii, or in Old Age.

“ Without exception the most
popular Cocoa of the day ; we
are glad to give it the highest
praise. For Nourishment there
ts nothing superior to be
Sound.’ —Mevicat MaGAzine.

CADBURY's Cocoa is a Perfect Food.
é J

‘-

