l
      OCKTAILS

        How TO MAKE THEM

"Inasmuch as you will do this thing, it is best that
            you do it intelligently."




                    PROVIDENCE :
              LIVERMORE    & KNIGHT Co.
                          r898
.•

                             Index   ..
                                          PAGE
     Apple Brandy Cocktail                  IS
     Armour Cocktail                        IS
     Brandy Cocktail                        I6
     Brandy Cocktail-Old-Fashioned          :i:6
     Brandy Cocktail-Fancy                  I7
     Brant Cocktail                         I7
     Brown Cocktail                         I8
     Calasaya Cocktail                      I8
     Country Cocktail                       I9
     Champagne Cocktail                     I9
     Champagne Cocktail-Fancy               20
     Chocolate Cocktail                     20
     Cider Cocktail                         2I

 »
Clam Cocktail .
Coffee Cocktail .                    22

Gin Cocktail-Holland
Gin Cocktail-Old-Fashioned Holland
Gin Cocktail-Plymouth .
Gin Cocktail-Tom .
Gin Cocktail-Old-Fashioned Tom
Harvard Cocktail
Irish Cocktail
Jamaica Rum Cocktail
Jersey Cocktail
Liberal Cocktail
Manhattan Cocktail
Manhattan Cocktail-Dry
Manhattan Cocktail-Extra Dry
Marguerite Cocktail .
Martini Cocktail-No. r
Martini Cocktail-No. 2
Medford Rum Cocktail
Metropole Cocktail . .
     Metropolitan Cocktail            31
     Oyster Cocktail                  32
     Princeton Cocktail               32
     Ridm~ Club Cocktail              33
     Rob Roy Cocktail                 33
     Soda Cocktail                    34
"'   Star Cocktail
     Turf Cocktail
                                      34
                                      35
     Vermouth Cocktail                35
     Vermouth Cocktail-Dry            36
     Vermouth Cocktail-Fancy          36
     Vermouth Cocktail-French         37
     Whiskey Cocktail                 37
     Whiskey Cocktail-Fancy           38
     Whiskey Cocktail-Old-Fashioned   38
     Whiskey Cocktail-New York        39
     Yale Cocktail                    39
      COCKTAIL is an appetizer or stomach
       stimulant and differs from other drinks
in that it is supposed to contain Bitters.
    It is the purpose of this book to give
the rules for the mixing of simple and well-
known cocktails. As to rules for fancy
cocktails there is no end, and the addition
of the various ingredients for sweetening
and blending of fancy cocktails has been
left to the taste of the mixer.
    A dry cocktail is one in which very little,
if any, sweetening is used, and is best for

                       7
people who are constrained as to the use of
sweets.
    Cocktails should always be made in a
glass with cracked ice, stirred with a spoon,
and sufficient ice should be used so that when
the drink is served the melting of the ice
will cause the drink to be at least one-third
water. The finer the ice the quicker it dis-
solves in the liquor, and hence the colder
the drink.
     A cocktail should never be bottled and
should always be made at the time of drink-
ing. A bottled cocktail might be likened

                      8
unto a depot sandwich-neither are fit for
use except in case of necessity.
    The original cocktails were all made
from Gin, Whiskey or Brandy, and these
are the spirits used in almost every well-
known cocktail made to-day. The addition
of Vermouth "\vas the first move toward the
blending of cocktails and was the initial
feature that led to their popularity.
    The measures referred to, namely, a
mixing-glass, a jigger, and a pony, hold the
following quantities :


                     9
    A mixing glass holds r 2 ounces, 6 jig-
gers, or 24 medium size tablespoonfuls.
    A jigger referred to in these rules holds 2
 ounces, or 4 medium size tablespoonfuls.
    A pony holds r ounce, or half a jigger,
or 2 tablespoonfuls.
    The formulas are simple, practical, easy
to follow, and the ingredients are embraced
within the contents of the sideboard of
the average well-regulated household.
    The cherry preserved in Maraschino and
the small green olive are often dropped in
the bottom of the cocktail glass. As to

                      IO
whether the cherry or olive be used, it is a
matter of taste, but on general principles
the cherry should go with the sweet drink
and the olive with the dry. Neither the
cherry nor the olive should ever be served
with the drink without first learning whether
it is desired or not.
    An old-fashioned yet attractive way of
serving a cocktail to ladies is the wiping of
the rim of the cocktail glass with lemon
peel and then dipping the rim in powdered
sugar, which leaves a frosty decoration on
the rim of the glass.

                     I I
   Angostura Bitters may be used in place
of Baker's where mentioned in these rules,
if preferred, but never more than one-half
the quantity.
    Orange Bitters may be used in con-
junction with the other bitters mentioned,
or alone, and the addition of a dash or two,
more or less, of these bitters is far from
being objectionable, as in the case of the
more pungent bitters.
    The writer has no caution to give as to
any extras that may be added ; the
only special suggestion he has to off er

                     12
being-always make cocktails mild and avoid
too many bitters.
    The tinkle of the ice-the delightful
odor of the lemon peel-the fragrance and
flayor of this ice-cold appetizer, what an
apology it has been for cold soup and over-
done entree !
              Apple Brandy Cocktail.
     MIXING-GLA S half-full fine ice, two dashes             Bitter
                                                             Apple Br. nd)
       Peyschaud or Boker's bitters, one jigger apple        I em n peel
brandy. Mix and strain into a cocktail-glass. Add
a piece of twisted lemon peel.




                  Armour Cocktail.
~   I~ E   ice in mixing-glass, three dashes orange          Bitter
      bitters, half a jigger sherry, half a jigger Italian     h rry
                                                             Italian Vermouth
vermouth. Mix, strain into cocktail-glass. Add a             Or, 'lge peel
piece of orange peel.
                               Brandy Cocktail.
 yrup         U     MIXTNG-GLA. S half-full fine ice, two dashes
Hitt r
Br ndy
              W gum-syrup, two dashes Peyschaud or Doker s
I emon peel   bitters, one jigger brandy.   ~Iix and train into
              cocktail-glass. Add a piece twisted lemon peel.




                      Brandy Cocktail- Old-Fashioned.
 'ugar        lrf RUSH lump of sugar in a "hiskey-glass with
Bitters       ~     sufficient hot water to cover the sugar, aclcl one
Lemon p el
Brandy        lump ice, two clashes bitters, a mall piece lemon peel,
              one jigger brandy. Stir with small bar-spoon. Serve
              leaving spoon in the glass.

                                         16
            Brandy Cocktail- Fancy.
[fJ ILL a mixing-glas. half-full fine ice, add th ree   \Jaraschino
        dashes :\1araschino, two da.hes Pey chaud or    Ritter
                                                        Brandy
Baker's bitter , one jigger brandy, one da h orange     Lemon
                                                          u ar
bitters. Mix. 'train into cocktail-glass, the rim of
which has been moi tened with a piece of lemon and
dipped in powclered sugar.


                  Brant Cocktail.
     IXING-GLAS · half-full fine ice, two cla hes An-   Ritt rs
                                                        Creme de menthe
       gostura bitters, one-third of a jigger White     Brandy
Creme de men the, two-thirds of a jigger brandy. Mix    Lemon pe;el
well. . 'train into cocktail-gla s; twist a piece of
lemon peel over the top.

                         17
                                     Brown Cocktail.
Ritt r                   ILL mixing-glass half-full fine ice, add three
Holland c~in
I r nch Vc rmouth          dashes Boker's bitters, one-half jigger Holland
I n11n peel         gin, one-half jigger French vermouth; shake until
                    cold. , 'train into cocktail-glas ; twi t a small piece
                    lemon peel on top.




                                     Calasaya Cocktail.
(ala aya            m    ALF a jigger Calasaya, half a jigger whiskey,
Whi k y
Lemon petl                  one small piece lemon peel, half a mixing-glass
                    full fine ice. .:Vlix well and strain into a cocktail-
                    gla s.

                                              18
•                    Country Cocktail.
         MIXING-GLA S half-full fine ice, two dashes          Bitter
                                                              Lemon pet"l
          of orange hitters, two da hes Boker's bitter ,      Whiskey
    one piece lemon peel, one jigger rye whiskey-no
    sweetening. Mix and strain into a cocktail-glass.




                   Champagne Cocktail.
         UT into a long thin glass one lump cut-loaf          .'u •ar
                                                              Bitter
          sugar saturated with Boker's bitters, add one       Lemon peel
    lump of ice, a fair sized piece of lemon peel; fill the   l hampa ne
    glass three-fourths full cold champagne. Stir with
    spoon and serve.

                              19
                                                                        •
                      Champagne Cocktail- Fancy.
 ugar            NTO a long thin gla s, put two lumps of ugar;
Bitt r
Lemon              wet one of the lumps with Peyschaud bitters.
Champagne   Add th ree lumps of ice and the rincl of a lemon.
            Catch one end of the lemon rind on the edge of the
            gl a s. Fi ll the glas nearly full\\ ith colcl champagne.
             tir with a bar-spoon and serve.



                            Chocolate Cocktail.
Egg         Iii REAK a fre h egg into a mixing-glass, half
Ritter
Port wme          full fine ice, add one da h bitters, one jigger
L'ugar      port wine, one tea poonful fine sugar. Shake well
            and train into a cocktail-glass.

                                       20
•
                       Cider Cocktail.
          ATURATE a lump of cut-loaf sugar with Baker's         , ugar
                                                                Bitt r
            bitters. Place it, with one lump of ice and a       Lemon p·cl
    small piece of lemon peel, in a thin cider-glass, then      Cider
    fill up with cold cider. Stir with spoon and serve.




                       Clam Cocktail.
    Iii   UT into a large cocktail-gla s a half-dozen little-   ( l,un.
                                                                lemon jui c
    ll,,i  neck clams with all their liquor, season with        Toba., s.1u t
    pepper an<l salt to ta te; adcl two clashe lemon-juice,
    one da h Toha co sauce, and a very little cayenne
    pepper. 'ervc with mall fork or spoon in glass.
                               Coffee Cocktail.
 u •r               ILL a mixing-glass half-full of fine ice; add
I
Port w111e            one teaspoonful of powdered white sugar, one
Brandy         fresh egg, one pony port wine, one pony of brandy.
                 hake thoroughly and strain into a large cocktail-
               glass. Grate a little nutmeg on top before serving.




                            Gin Cocktail- Holland.
R1ttcrs            IXING-GLA S half-full fine ice, two dashes
it~Nii1 c.rn         Boker's or Peyschaud bitters, two dashes gum-
Lemon p e1     syrup, one jigger Holland gin. Mix; strain into a
               cocktail-glass. Add a piece of twisted lemon peel.

                                       22
      Gin Cocktail- Old -Fashioned Holland.
     UT a lump of sugar in a whiskey glass; add         , ugar
                                                        Bitter
       enough hot water to cover the sugar. Cru h the   Le•non pee!
sugar; add a lump of ice, two da hes Boker's bitters,   Holland Um
small piece of lemon peel, one jigger of Holland gin.
Mix with small bar-spoon and serve with spoon in
glass.




            Gin Cocktail- Plymouth.
[ff IXING-GLA S half-full fine ice, three dashes        Bitter
                                                        Plymouth Uin
l[M   orange or Peyschaud bitters, one jigger Ply-      I cmon peel
mouth gin. Mix well, strain into cocktail-glass. Add
a small piece lemon peel.

                         23
                             Gin Cocktail- Tom.
Bitter
Tom l;in
l mon pe l    m   A VE mixing-glass half-full fine ice; add twn
                    da ·hes Peyschaud or Baker's bitters, one jigger
              Tom gin. Mix well, strain into cocktail-glass anc.l
              add a mall piece of lemon peel.




                     Gin Cocktail- Old-Fashioned Tom.
  u ar             IX same as Old Fashioned I lollaml Gin Cocktail,
Bitters
I emon peel          using Old Tom gin in place of Holland.
Iom Cin
                     Harvard Cocktail.
         IXIXG-GLASS half-full of fine ice; one cla h         .'yrup
                                                              B1tt r
        _ gum-syrup, three dashes Boker's bitter , half a     It.1h.m    r 1 u h
                                                              Bra111'y
    jigger Italian vermouth, half a jigger of brandy.
,   Mix and strain into a cocktail-glass, then fill up "ith
                                                              'cltz r

    seltzer and serve quickly.




l                      Irish Cocktail.
         IXING-GLA S half-full fine ice, three dashes
           orange bitters, two clashes Ilorsforcl's acid
    phosphate, one-half jigger whiskey, one-half jigger
    Italian vermouth. Mix well, strain into cocktail-glass.
                               Jamaica Rum Cocktail.
                       IXING-GLASS half-full fine ice, two da he
                         gum-syrup, two dashes orange bitters, two
                  dashes Baker's bitter , one jigger Jamaica rum. ~1ix
                  and strain into cocktail-gla       Adel a small piece
                  twisted lemon peel.




                                   Jersey Cocktail.
        r             UT one lump of ice in thin cider-glass. Add
    1tt r
l           n p          one-half tablespoonful fine sugar, two dashes
    1d r
                  Boker's bitters, one piece lemon peel. Fill up vvith
                  cold cider.   tir well, and drink while effervescent.
                 Liberal Cocktail.
     ILL a mixing-glass half-full fine ice, add one         •rup
                                                          Hitter
       <la h syrup, half a jigger Picon bitters, half a    \ l 1 key
jigger whi key. Mix, strain into cocktail-glass. A        'emon p el

small piece of lemon peel on top.




                Manhattan Cocktail.
Ii!  I LL mixing-glass half-full fine ice, add two         yrup
                                                          lhtt r
lJ     da hes gum-syrup, two da hes Boker's bitters,      lt.tlian V rmouth
one-half jigger Italian vermouth, one-half jigger         Whi'
                                                          I emun peel
whi key. l\lix, strain into cocktail-glass. Add a
piece of lemon peel.
                 Manhattan Cocktail- Dry.
      fiit REPARE ame as Manhattan Cocktail, leaving
1th , lU:
            out syrup.




             Manhattan Cocktail- Extra Dry.
      ~ IX       ame as l\lanhattan Cocktail. Leave out
uth
             syrup, and use French vermouth in place of
      Italian.
            Marguerite Cocktail.
~    ALF a mixing-glass full of fine ice, three dashes   Bitter
                                                         Plvm ut (.111
       of orange bitters, one-half jigger of Plymouth    I ren h\ rm Jth
gin, one-half jigger of French vermouth. Mix, strain
into cocktail-glass. Place an olive in the bottom of
glass and serve.




            Martini Cocktail- No. I.
      ALF a mixing-glass full fine ice, three dashes     Bitttr
                                                         (7ill
        orange bitters, one-half jigger Tom gin, one-    ltalwn \er u •11th
half jigger Italian vermouth, a piece lemon peel.        I cmon pe
:\1ix, strain into cocktail-glass.
                          Martini Cocktail- No. 2.
                   ILL mixing-gla s half-full fine ice. Add two
                     clashes Boker's bitters, one-half jigger Tom
              gin, one-half jigger Italian \ermouth, half a teaspoon-
              ful sherry, piece of lemon peel. ~lix, and strain into
              cocktail-gla s.




                           Medford Rum Cocktail.                        •
   rup            AVE mixing-gla. half-full fine ice. Add dash
But r
 ledf r Run        gum- yrup, two dashe Boker's bitters, one jig-
   m n p I
              ger Medford rum. Mix and strain into cocktail-glass.
              Add a piece of twisted lemon peel.

                                        30
                    Metropole Cocktail.
         A VE a mixing-gla s half-full fine ice, add two        yru1
                                                               Bitter
           dashes gum-syrup, two dashes Peyschaud bit-         Brand,
    ters, one dash orange bitters, half a jigger brandy,       Ir m h \'   m )Uth
                                                               J.cmon pc l
    half a jigger French vermouth. Mix, strain into
    cod.tail-glass, add small piece twisted lemon peel.



                   Metropolitan Cocktail.
•   [
          WO lumps of ice in a small wine-glass, add            yr-1p
                                                               Bitters
            three dashes gum-syrup, two dashes Boker'          Brandy
                                                               Fren1,;h \ ermouth
    bitter , one pony brandy, one pony French vermouth.        I c111011 p e!
    ll1ix, take out the ice, add a small piece twisted lemon
    peel.

                               31
                                                             l

                   Oyster Cocktail.
      FEW dashes lemon juice in a tumbler, add a
                                                             i
       cla h of Toba co auce, a tea poonful of vin-
egar, a few da hes tomato catsup, six Dlue Point
oysters, with all their liquor; season to taste with
pepper and salt. 11ix and serve \\ ith small fork or
spoon in the gla


                 Princeton Cocktail.
      MIXI G-GLA          half-full fine ice, three da hes
       orange bitter , one and a half pony Torn gin.
Mix, strain into cocktail-gla s; add half a pony port
wine carefully and let it settle in bottom of cocktail
before serving.

                           32
                   Riding Club Cocktail.
    ~ IXI TG-GLAS           half-full fine ice, one dash An-   Bitters
                                                                  1 p osphat
           gostura bitters, a small bar-spoonful Horsford's    < aln ,1 a    "'
    Acid Pho phate, one jigger Calasaya. Mix and strain
    into cocktail-glass.




                    l{ob l{oy Cocktail.
         ILL a mixing-glass half-full fine ice. Add two        I •1ttt:r

t          dashes Boker's bitters, one-half jigger Scotch
    whiskey, one-half jigger Italian vermouth. Mix and
                                                                  '11t h   II ke
                                                               lta .m 11 outh
                                                               I mon \WI
    strain into cocktail-glass. Place a small piece lemon
    peel on top.

                              33
                  Soda Cocktail.
       E teaspoonful fine ugar in a large bar-gla s,
       one lump of ice, three dashes Peyschaud bit-
ter-, one piece lemon peel; add one bottle of plain
or lemon soda. :\1ix and drink during effervescence.




                   Star Cocktail.
     ILL a mixing-glass half-full fine ice, add two
       da hes gum-syrup, three dashes Peyschaucl or
Baker's bitters, one-half jigger apple brandy, one-
half jigger Italian vermouth. Mix, strain into cocktail-
glass, twi t small piece lemon peel on top.

                          34
                   Turf Cocktail.
Irr  NE dash Angostura bitters, three dashes orange       1t r
                                                           n<1m
~l     bitters, one jigger Tom gin in a mixing-glass             n
half-full fine ice. Mix, strain into cocktail-gla ;
add a piece twisted lemon peel.




                Vermouth Cocktail.
     IXING-GLASS half-full fine ice, two da hes
       Boker's or Peyschaud bitters, one jigger Italian
vermouth. ~Iix well, strain into cocktail-glass; add
a piece lemon peel.

                          35
           Vermouth Cocktail- Dry.
 I R EPARE same as Vermouth Cocktail, using
     French vermouth in place of Italian; twist a
piece lemon peel over top.




          Vermouth Cocktail- fancy.
     A VE mixing-glass half-full fine ice. Add three
       da hes Maraschino, two dashes Boker's bitters,
one jigger Italian vermouth and one dash orange
bitters. Mix and strain into cod.tail-glass, the rim
of which has been moistened with a piece of lemon
peel and clipped in powdered sugar.
          Vermouth Cocktail- French.
[ili HREE dashes orange bitters in mixing-glas
                                                                    th
U half-full fine ice; add one jigger French ver-
mouth. Mix well, strain into cocktail-gla s; add a
piece twisted lemon peel on top.




                Whiskey Cocktail.
     IXI TG-GLA       half-full fine ice, two dashes     ~ ru
                                                       IJ1tter
       gum-syrup, two dashes Peyschaud bitters, one    \\'I
jigger whiskey. Mix, strain into cocktail-glass; add   1 em •1 pt

a small piece of twisted lemon peel.

                        37
           Whiskey Cocktail- Fancy.
     A VE mixing-gla s half-full fine ice. Add two
       da hes Maraschino, bvo da hes Boker's bitter ,
one jigger "hiskey, one <la h orange hitters.    Mix
until very cold. Strnin into cocktail-gla s, the rim
of which has been moistened with a piece of lemon
peel and dipped in powdered sugar.


       Whiskey Cocktail- Old· Fashioned.
    UT a lump of sugar in a whiskey glass; add
      enough hot water to cover the sugar. Crush the
sugar; add a lump of ice, two da hes Boker's bitters,
 mall piece of lemon peel, one jigger whiskey. ~1ix
with mall bar-spoon and serve with spoon in glass.
         Whiskey Cocktail- New York.
     ILL mixing-glass half-full fine ice. Add two
       dashes Boker's bitters, one-half jigger whiskey,
one-half jigger Italian vermouth, half a teaspoonful
sherry, piece of lemon peel.      ~1ix, and train into
cocktail-glass.




                    Yale Cocktail.
     ILL a mixing-glass half-full fine ice, three dashes   l>ttter
                                                           I emon     t>
       orange bitters, one dash Peyschaucl bitters, a      TomG
piece lemon peel, one jigger Tom gin. Mix, strain           · ltz r
into cocktail-glass; add a squirt of siphon seltzer.
