CiassXXBJLl
BookA^5
6cpightN°_
    CÛEffilGlff DEPÛSET.
            TLuxe


               Edited by
GEO. R. WASHBURNE and STANLEY BRONNER




              Published by




             LOUISVILLE




                1911
                          \




   COPYRIGHT, 1911

BULLETIN PUBLISHING CO.
      LOUISVILLE




 ©CU292120
                                   Toreworè



               HIS, the first édition of Beverages de Luxe, is intended


  Oas                  â guide to connoisseurs, and those

                 and the     editors     fondly hope    that    it
                                                                     who serve them,
                                                                     fills   this   purpose.

        Despite a spirit of fanaficism that periodically passes over the

land, there is       no denymg     that fine beverages are           among the things

that make     life   brighter, happier    and worth while.            A knowledge as
to the best of them, their sélection, their care               and     their serving, is,


therefore, not amiss.

        The articles herewith          presented on topics in connection with

fine   beverages, have been prepared              by specialists and are worthy

of     préservation,    as   are   the   entire   contents     of    this    book, which

will    be found handy        for référence in the club,            the hôtel, and the

high class cafe, and by those who enjoy the luxuries of those places.
                                                            BY
         talian                                    GUIDO ROSSATI
     J                                                Wine Expert
              Wines                           of   the Royal Department
                                                of Agriculture of Italy




                   The grapevine bas flourished in Italy from the
               reniotest antiquity, the naine of Oenotria tellus, or
               land of wine, given to it by ancient poets, attesting
               the pre-eminence already attained by the peninsula
               in this line of production from the earliest times.
              Nowhere else, perhaps, has the product of the
grape played snch an important part in national life as in
ancient Kome and Greece in art as in literature, in religion as
                              ;


in politics.
     No other country, perhaps, as Italy, owing to its orograph-
ical configuration  and the notable différences in climate and
soil of itsvarions sections, shows such a varied production of
wines, from the light wines of the North to the gênerons vint-
ages of the South.      The gamut of equality is probably un-
paralleled. There are wines which seem to reflect the character
of the races by whom they are produced. For example: The
Barolo of Piedmont possesses those robust and austère qualities
which mark the Piedmontese people who make it the Chianti is
                                                        ;


gentle, graceful and vivacious, like the Tuscan people; the
Lachrima Christi is warm and ardent, as Neapolitans are; the
Marsala, strong and generous, as the inhabitants of Sicily.
     A comprehensive review of even the principal types of wine
produced in Italy cannot adequately be contained within the
limits of a brief article. But, making virtue of necessity, and
starting from the North of the Peninsula, we find, first, Pied-
mont, a hilly province, in climate and soil well adapted to wine
growing. Table wines form the largest and most important
part of its production, of which the finest brands are the Gatti-
nara, Ghemme, Barolo, Barbaresco, Nebbiolo, Barbera, Grigno-
lino, and Freisa. Ail thèse are dry wines, which possess a good
bouquet and tonic qualities.
     "Barolo," says Professer Mosso, "is a beverage which pro-
duces physiological effects even before you take it." Its color
is garnet, its bouquet ethereal, its flavor full, lasting and aro-
matic. Although it matures in five or six years, some prefer it
ten years old. It is generally served in a basket, like Burgundy,
to show its âge and préserve its crust.
     After "having washed our lips with this illustrious wine,"
we may sample Nebbiolo, which is preferred by many on ac-
count of its fruity flavor and flower-like bonquet. It is also pre-
pared in a sparkling condition, and a very pleasant beverage is
this red sparkling wine, especially with nuts.
     Nebbiolo, "which from the wine press cornes sparkling and
rushes in bottle and cellar to hide its young blushes," cannot,
however, monopolize entirely our attention, for other brands
are claiming their share of it, such as Barbaresco, which is a
                                        :



red wine, round and soft, reseinbling Burgundy; the popular
Barbera, much liked for its deep, ruby color, and its vigorous,
strengthening qualities and the aristocratie strawberry-colored
                         ;


Grignolino, an idéal table wine, the latter the favorite of the
late Archbishop Franzoni of Tarin.
      Sparkling Moscato of Asti or Canelli, produced in what is
probably the best-known viticultural district of Piedmont, is
c msidered one of the best and most typical of Italian sparkling
wines. It has been called "a lady's wine" because "it is sweet."
Remarkable for its bouquet, which stands somewhat between
fehat of the niusk and the scent of the rose, it has a slight alco-
holic strength, so that it can be used safely even by the gentle
sex, and is an exhilarating beverage.
      Lombardy produces less wine than Piedmont, the culture
of the grape being confined mainly to the sub- Alpine or Alpine
district, while the plains are chiefly devoted to the dairy and
silk industries.   What little wine is grown in Lombardy is,
however, of good quality; the best being the wines of Valtellina,
the Khaetia of the Latins, a province as celebrated to-day for
its vintages as it was in ancient times.  They are characterized
by a beautiful strawberry color, lightness, delicacy of bouquet,
cleanliness, and nuttiness of flavor, being among Italian wines
those which approach the most, the grand vintage of the Medoc.
     On the western border of the Venetian province, not far
from that romantic city of Verona, is grown another of the best
wines of Italy, viz. :  The Valpolicella, a table wine, ruby in
color, of moderate strength, clean and palatable, developing
with âge a délicate, violet-like bouquet. Somewhat reseinbling
Burgundy, it has, however, a certain tendency to sparkle, a
quality this, that has been lately utilized in preparing of this
type a sparkling variety, which finds considérable favor among
consuniers in this country.
     The allurements of Stecchetti's poetry are not necessary to
initiate the traveller into the delightful "soles of Venice and
wine of Conegliano," another of the celebrated Venetian vint-
ages, and, probably, the most popular sparkling wine of Italy,
for the latter speaks for itself, once you have gotten well ac-
quainted with it.
     As we proceed further through the Po Valley, skirting the
hills located at the foot of the  Appenines, where our attention
is  attraeted by the artistic manner in which the grapevine is
trained, in garlands and festoons from tree to tree, giving the
country a picturesque and festive appearançe, we are not sur-
prised to find synthesized ail thèse natural beauties, and, 1
should say, the very bounfcifulness of the Aemilian district in
the famous Lanibrusco wine, produced near Modena, a red,
sparkling wine, of violet-like bouquet, somewhat similar to Neb-
biolo, but more tasty and not quite so fruity.
      In the infinité gamut of wines, which gladden the heart of
man, Chianti, this most popular and most représentative of
Italian wines, represents a type entirely of its own, well defined
and well established.
      Elegantly, nay coquettishly, gotten up in those familiar,
neatly-trimmed flasks, adorned with the national colors of Italy,
Chianti is essentially a j oyons and vûvacious wine, the prototype
of the red wines of Tuscany, characterized by the brightness and
vivacity of their ruby color, the vinosity of their bouquet, the
moderateness of their alcoholic strength (just sufficient to move
the brain without impairing it), by the cleanliness, smoothness
and gentleness of their flavor, ancl, above ail, by that quality
Avhich the Tuscans define as "passante       viz., easily digestible.
Chianti lias not the austerity nor the deep flavor of Barolo or
Gattinara, but has many of the soft grâces of the Valpolicella
or Valtellina, which alone, among the line table wines of Italy,
can, on aristocratie tables, contend with this son of ancient
Etruria.
      Aleatico is a red, Muscadine wine, of Avhich Henderson, the
well-known English authority, says that "the naine in sonie
measure expresses the rich quality of this wine, which has a
brilliant purple color and a luscious aromatic flavor, without
being cloying to the palate, as its sweetness is generally tem-
pered with an agreeable sharpness and slight astringency. It
is, in fact, one of the best spécimens of the dolce jnecanti wines  ;


and probably approaches more than any other some of the most
esteemed wines of the ancients."
      From Tuscany, whose good wine is, as Bedi says, a Gentle-
maii," and u No headache hath he, no headache, I say, for those
who talked with him yesterday," we step into the Orvieto dis-
trict of Central Italy, famous for its white wines, and for being
the home of the historical "Est-Est-Est Wine," which robbed
Germany of one of its abbots, the bibulous Johann Fugger.
      The celebrated wines of Naples corne from the slopes of
fiery Mount Vesuvius, where it would seem almost paradoxical
that the vine should flourish and yield such excellent products
as it does, and from the hillsides of the surrounding country,
including the islands of the bay.
      In this fascinating viridary, eternally fertile, ancient mem-
ories flow from the festive pergolas and harbors laden with the
golden bunches of the Capri, or with the pnrple frnit that yields
the Falernian, or with the aromatic grapes, from which Lach-
ryma Christi is obtained.
    Of Lachryma Christi, which is an amber-colored wine, pos-
sessing a prononnced and agreeable bouquet, and a delicions,
frnity flavor of its own, Henry Yizetelly, a compétent English
authority, in his well-known book, "The Wines of the World,"
states:  "At the head of South Italian wines, one unquestion-
ably has to place the far-famed Lachryma Christi, the product
of the loose volcanic soil of Mount Vesnyius, and an exceedingly
lnscions wine, of refreshing flavor."
     A snperior semi-dry, or dry, sparkling variety of Lachryma
Christi, has lately been prodnced, which combines the intrinsic
merits of this wine with the exhilarating qualities of a spark-
ling wine, and also a red variety is known, obtained from the
Lachryma grape.
     No brand, ancient or modem, has enjoyed snch endnring
or extensive celebrity as Falernian. The Falernian of antiquity
came from Monnt Massico, and its modem namesake is pro-
dnced in the hilly volcanic district extending from Pozzuoli to
Cnma. It is prepared from grapes that are allowed to remain
on the vines nntil late in the fall and gathered when overripe,
the jnice being conseqnently very rich.
     Of Falernian,   to-day,   two   varieties are prodnced:   One
red, endowed with great bouquet, gênerons strength, fnll body,
délicate, velvety flavor; another, golden white, gênerons, richly
flavored, with an aromatic bonqnet of its own.
     White Capri is a refreshing, délicate, fragrant, snb-acid-
nlons wine, of a pale, primrose color, resembling in its charac-
teristics the Chablis of Burgnndy.     Ked Capri is a gênerons
fragrant, rnby-colored wine, with greater body than the white,
velvety to the taste, and to be taken with roast meat.
     The Sonth of Italy, with its gênerons vintages, supplies
légion of well-known brands, snch as the sweet Muscat of Trani,
the Malmsey of Lipari, the aromatic and strongly-scenteà
dessert wines of Calabria (Zagarese and Gerace), and the
robust, heavy-bodied, red wines of Bari, Barletta, Lecce and
Gallipoli.
    Through the delicions perfume of orange blossoms cornes
to us the famé of the celebrated wines of Sicily, where the feast
of the son of Jupiter and Semele is a continuons one, finding its
flow in the Muscat of Syracuse, suggestive of the honey of
Mount Ibla, in its nectar eous confrère of Segesta, in the rather
strong, but highly fragrant, Albanello and Naccarella, in the
Nelsonian vintages of the Duchy of Bronte, supplied to the
English court, in the generous vintages of the Aetna, and last,
but not least, in the weli-known Marsala wine.
     Of ail Italian wines, Marsala is, perhajjs, the best known
among the English-speaking race. It is, undoubtedly, the best
of the many dessert wines for which Italy enjoys a world-wide
réputation.
     Marsala is a wine that resembles Sherry, but, as a rule,
richer in body, as in its préparation a certain amount of must
from red grapes is used.   It has a highly developed bouquet, and
is entirely free of acidity to the taste, which is mellow and oily.
Like Sherry and Port, Marsala is a fortified wine, although
there are some qualities, such as the Virgin, which do not re-
ceive any addition of brandy at ail.
     Malnisey, or Malvasia, is a white, sweet, dessert wine,
rather alcoholic, with luscious flavor, resembling Madeira.
     Of the Syracusan Muscat, as well as of that of Segesta, we
may say with Carpene that "it has a brilliant golden color, a
niost gracious and not excessive fragrance, an exquisite, honey-
like flavor, that fills the mouth with a harinonious ensemble of
delicious sensations, which the palate can perceive, but no pen
adequately describe."
     Our review of Sicilian wines would not be complète with-
out mentioning two or three other well-known brands, viz:
Corvo, a white table wine, resembling Sauterne, and possessing
a beautiful amber color, bouquet and aroma typically Southern,
a clean, generous, silky taste, warming to the System. Generous
in flavor, without being heady, it combines body with finesse,
quality with reasonable price.
     Castel Calatubbo, from the vineyards of Prince Pape di
Valdina, is also a wine of the Sauterne type, although some-
what dryer and a trifle more generous.
     "Vin de Zucco," grown at Villa Grazia, a property of the
Orléans family, in the province of Palermo, is another famous
Sicilian growth.     This Aviné, obtained with the greatest care,
stands between a Sauterne and a Sherry wine, and is idéal
either as a dessert or as a "Vin de luxe."
                                                   BY
    Jtalian                                   CESARE CONTI
                                        Président Italo-American Stores
         Vermouth                                 New York




                Italian   V erinouth is nndoubtedly the best known
           and most largely consumed vinous liquor used in the
           préparation of niixed drinks.
               With this liqnor is so identified the city of Turin,
           where it is chiefly prepared, that its name has be-
           come familiar as the home of Vermouth par excel-
lence.
     Vermouth is, practically, a good white wine, chiefly Muscat,
aromatized with the addition of the extract from certain aro-
matic herbs, fortified with pure wine spirits to a strength vary-
ing from fifteen to seveDteen per cent, by volume, sweetened
with pure sugar, so as to brin g its saccharimetric contents at
from twelve to eighteen per cent.
     It dérives its name, of Teutonic origin, from the word
"Wermut," which stands in the German language for the Eng-
lish "wormwood," one of the aromatic herbs which is more or
less conspicuous in ail the formulas for its préparation.
     There are many other herbs and spices entering into the
composition of the extract added to wine in the préparation of
Vermouth, which vary according to formula. Of thèse, there
are as many, we might say, as leaves in Vallombrosa, each
maker having his own particular formula, which is naturally
guarded as a trade secret.
     Although wormwood figures in ail formulas, it must be
noted that the parts of the plant used are not the leaves, nor the
stems, which contain the essential oil of wormwood or absinthol,
but the flowers, or better, the inflorescences which contain, in-
stead of the essential oil, an entirely unobjectionable aromatic
principle, known as absinthine, recognized by the pharmacopœa
as a useful tonic.
    The custom of infusing aromatic ingrédients into wine, in
order to enhance its hygienic value, dates from the remotest
times.
    Mention is made of such wines by Pliny, and Cicero alludes
to an "ahsinthiatum vinum" wiiich   must have been something
on the lines of Vermouth, but, of course, not so improved and
harmonious in its composition as the article of the présent day.
    Vermouth wine is a liquor of a rather deep golden color, of
absolute clearness, with a pronounced bouquet of aroinatic
herbs aud spices, skillfully combiued so as to obtain an homo-
geneous ensemble, with a sweet flavor, ending in an agreeable
aroinatic and tonic-slight bitterness. Used moderately, it bas a
bénéficiai influence on the organism, in stimulating the appetite
and toning the action of weak stomachs.
      The first niaker of Vermouth in Turin was a pastry cook
and liquor retailer, having his store under the Portici di Piazza
Castello, who sold his customers the Muscatel wine of Piedmont,
in which he had infused some of the herbs that are identified
with the préparation of this liquor.
      From the outset it met with the favor of the consumers,
and the demand soon grew to such size to require the prépara-
tion on a large scale, thus bringing into existence several estab-
lishments, that quickly attained commercial importance.
      Thèse supply both to a considérable home demand and to
an ever-increasing export trade, showing that foreign countries
alone require somewhat in the neighborhood of 173,672,000 bot-
tles, besides 540,600 gallons, of this vinous liquor, of which the
United States received last year 43,056,000 bottles and about
65,000 gallons.
      There are to-day, in Turin and neighborhood, about a dozen
first-class establishments engaged in this industry, some of them
with plants that are small towns in themselves, where many
thousands of workmen find remunerative employment.
     The demand for this Italian speeialty in the United States
has increased wonderfnlly within the last twenty years, viz.,
from about 50,000 cases in the early nineties, to a présent yearly
average of over 150,000 cases.
     Vermouth wine is drunk in Italy and in most foreign coun-
tries straight, as an appetizer, in the same way as in this coun-
try the cocktail is taken before dinner.
     In the United States it is generally used in the préparation
of mixed drinks, although foreign consumers drink it plain.
     Vermouth is the genius of the cocktail, being the ingrédient
that, either in the Martini or the Manhattan, imparts to it the
characteristic feature of the drink.
     There is no doubt that the future has in store for this ar-
ticle as great prospects as the past has recorded successes,   and
that, as consumers in this country become more familiar with
the use of Vermouth as a beverage to be drunk plain, which en-
ables them to better appreciate quality, further development of
its importation will be realized, especially in those brands which
can challenge in the matter of excellence.
                                                BY
       ourbon
   B Whisky                               GEORGE G. BROWN
                                      Président of Brown, Forman Company

                                             Louisville,   Kentucky




               Just when the iîrst distillery was erected in
           Kentucky, I cannot say, but, so far as I know, the
           first   record ed référence to whisky was in the year
           1782.    This was when Captain Eobert Patterson, of
           "Irish Presbyterian-Oovenanter stock/' with a Com-
           pany of abont forty mm, started from a point in
what is now Fayette County, Kentucky, to reach the Ohio River
where the Kentucky River empties into it, to ineet an expédition
sent up the Ohio from the falis of that river (now Louisville)
by General George Rogers Clark. Such an expédition at that
date was not only perilous, but acconiplished under great diffi-
culties; the proper sustenance of the nien being one of the prob-
lems that was encountered. On this expédition the only food
provided was a small quantity of parched corn, to be supple-
niented by such game as the members could kill en route. In
Captain Patterson's Company was a rollicking young man
named Aaron Reynolds, from Bryaut's Station, who, it is
stated, was a very "profane, swearing man.'* This habit of Rey-
nolds was extremely disagreeable to his Captain, who, after
bearing with it for four days, concluded to reprove jhim,
and, if that failed, and the profanity was persisted in, although
Re^molds was very much needed on the expédition, he would be
sent home. Reynolds received the reproof, but persisted in his
profanity. Captain Patterson, "a judicious gentleman," con-
cluded he would try another method for the reformation of Rey-
nolds, and promised him that, if he would stop swearing, lie
would give him a quart of whisky when the expédition reached
the Ohio River (wiiere doubtiess the liquor was obtained from
the expédition sent up the river by General Clark). Reynolds
accepted the conditions made by Captain Patterson, and history
shows that he received the "spirits," according to promise,
which he and his friends enjoyed.
     There is no further record of Reynolds until a few months
later when the most sanguinary battie with Indians ever fought
in Kentucky occurred at the Blue Licks. A very large portion of
the white men had been killed in this battie. The safety of those
who escaped was due to the lieetness of their horses and the
ability of the horses to swim the river. Oaptain Patterson was
wounded and lay exhausted on the ground, Reynolds, fleeing ou
horseback, saw his Captain, jumped from his horse, and insiste*]
on Patterson taking the horse and making his escape. This
Patterson was relnctant to do, as it seemed impossible that any
one without a horse could possibly escape from the Indians, but
Reynolds put his Captain on the horse and took his chances
withont it. The resuit was that Reynolds was captured by two
Indians. He was left in charge of one of theni, whom he knock-
ed down and then made his escape. Patterson was much grati-
fied upon meeting Reynolds, and, in repiy to his question what
had prompted him to be willing to probably sacrifice his own
life, for his Captain, was told that it was because his Captain

reproved him when he needed reproof. Reynolds became a re-
ligious man, joining the Baptist Church, and, according to tra-
dition, became a Baptist preacher. I have dwelled upon this
incident because it brings up the question in ethics as to what
influence the quart bottle of whisky may have had in changing
Reynolds from a habituai breaker of one of the Ten Command-
ments by Patterson violât in g the eleventh man-made "prohibi-
tion commandment," "Thou shalt not make, sell, or use an
                            1

intoxicating beverage.' I leave the détermination of this ques-
tion to my readers, for I fear I am digressing from my subject,
                   1
"Bourbon Whisky.       '




    The early settlers of Kentucky, like JN oah when he had been
                                                :



preserved from the nood, seemed to have felt the need for an
alcoholic stimulant,       Theref ore, it is likeiy that as soon as corn
had begun to be grown in Kentucky some of it was converted
into whisky. In the beginning, of course, this was done on a
very small scale, and in a crude, primitive way, but, as the
liquor distilled in this way, from corn, in the early days of
Kentucky, became more and more popuiar, both on account of
its flavor as a beverage and its bénéficiai eiïect as a stimulant,
the réputation of Kentucky whisky commenced to spread beyond
the borders of the &tate imd a demand for the liquor from ail the
surrounding territory ensued. Thus, the distillation of whisky
started by settlers of Kentucky for their own use, their families,
and friends, deveJoped into a business to meet the growing de-
mand for what has since beconie Kentucky 's internationally-
known product. The first distilleries of the State were located
on farms; most of the farms of any importance having thèse
small stills, which were operated by unskiiled men, and Avithout
much regard to science. But when the Civil War occurred in
this country, a Fédéral tax was imposed on whisky, which re-
quired strict Governmental supervision, and, consequently,
many of thèse small stilîs were abandoned, with the resuit that
îimch larger quantifies of whisky hâve been made in distilleries
erected on more scientiîic and économie principles than had
been previously made.
     The first whisky made in Kentucky was prodnced exclusive-
ly from corn, which was grown right on the farms where thèse
small stills had been set np. Later, it was fonnd that the intro-
duction of some rye with the corn, in the mash, increased the
yield of spirits prodnced and improved the llavor.     Still later,
it was found that barley, malted, further increased the yield.
The fertile county of Bourbon was the largest producer of
whisky in Kentucky in those eariy days, and it is said that the
first still was erected there. The whisky made in that county
became known as "Bourbon Whisky." Later, other counties be-
came celebrated for the quantity and character of their produc-
tions of whisky, such as Nelson, Anderson, Fayette, Daviess,
Marion, etc., and in Kentucky, before the Civil War, the county
in which the whisky Avas produced became, as it were, a trade
mark for ail the distilleries in such county, so that, among Ken-
tuckians, whisky was known by the county in which it was dis-
tilled.   But, outside of the State of Kentucky, Bourbon County,
^Yhich had been the largest producer of whisky, became the most
important source of supply for the deniand for the goods from
without the borders of the State, and, consequently, Kentucky
whisky was linked with the name of that county. Bourbon,
therefore, became a generic name, as known outside of the
State, to ail whisky made in the whole State of Kentucky of
which the largest percentage of grain, from which it was made,
consisted of corn.
     Kentucky, having succeeded so weli in establishing a legiti-
mate commerce with Bourbon whisky, the distillers began to
manufacture other whisky with a larger percentage of rye, and
sometimes with a total of rye, known as "Bye Whisky," so that
for more than a quart er of a century ail whisky made in Ken-
tucky has been known as either Bourbon or Bye whisky. As
indicative of the improvements made in the scientific distillation
of whisky, I will cite the fact that the jieid per bushel of grain
of about two gallons and a quart of whisky has about doubled
within the last haif century. In nry own expérience in the busi-
ness, now past fôrty years, I remeraber buying a crop of old-
fashioned sour mash whisky, the yieid of which was only two
and one-fourth gallons per bushel. Such a small yield as this
now would entail on the producer the pay nient of the Govern-
ment tax of $1.10 per gallon on the deficiency for his failure to
obtain as much spirits from each bushel of grain as the Govern-
ment, after surveying the distiller}, holds should be the mini-
mum amount produced in the plant.
   Much of the whisky made m Kentucky in its early history
wm shipped by fiatboats clown the Ohio and Mississippi Eivers
to New Orléans.     The réputation of Kentucky Bourbon whisky
lias grown vastly   siuee the Civil War, until now "Old Kentucky
Bonrbom'' is a synonymous term for "the best whisky." While
Bourbon lias probably become a generie naine for whisky made
for aging purposes where corn prépondérances in its manufac-
ture, Kentucky can never become generie except for Avhisky
made in that State, and Kentucky naturally revolts at having
whisky made outside of its borders branded as made within its
borders. The higii réputation of Kentucky Bourbon whisky
aniong the finest beverages of the world is jealously regarded,
and lias been well earned, for, as a beverage, either when taken
straight or in any of the many delightful, exhilarating mixtures
in which Bourbon forms the base, or, to mention more specifical-
ly, an old-fashioned Kentucky toddy or mint julep, there is no
finer drink known to mau, either brewed, fermented, or dis-
tilled.
                                                    BY

    R    ye
             Whisky
                                            A. M.   HANAUER
                                        Of Hamburger Distillery Co.
                                               Pittsburg, Pa.




                  Rye whisky and wry faces do not go togetlier.
             Sit down at home, at the chib or cafe, and when the
             choice, miid, mellow, and matured rye whisky is
             served, you see before yon the finest drink man is
            capable of distilling from grain. Yon smile in con-
            templation, and comprehend how the expression
arose, "Give me a smile," meaning a drink, around which
clnsters only smile, langhter and joyonsness, the good story
brimfnl of wit and lmmor and langhter. One can miderstand
why the salvation lassies get their best pickings from the lovers
of rye. One recalls Bobby Bnrns and his sweet songs of the rye
fields, tanght us in childhood's happy hours.    Was it not Bis-
marck, the greatest statesman of the nineteenth centnry, and
himself the proprietor of a distillery, who remarked, "Béer is
for women, wine for m en, and rye for heroes."
      In our country, with its rush and bustle and perpendicular
drinking, one finds that some men do not understand the fine
art of eating and drinking and living. You sometimes see such
a man rush up to the bar, order a fine old rye, gulp it down,
take some water, and rush ont again. That is like turning
                        —
somersaults in church it is a sacrilège. Oh, no, my friend;
that is not the way to do. Pon't start a conflagration in your
stomach and then start the fire department after it. Perpen-
dictular drinking leads to oblique vision.
      The right way is to greet King Rye with ceremony, révér-
ence and affection, which his âge, his strength, his spirit, his
purity and his birth demand. Treat him right and lie will see
that you are treated right; abuse him and he will see that you
suffer.   He permits yon to look into nature' s mirror. The law
of compensation holds fast
                            —  "whatever you do to him you do to
yourself."
     Sit down, my friend, and ask for a choice real old rye, a
nectar fit for the gods. Pour it slowly; feast your eyes on its
golden hues. Is it the golden fleece for which the argonauts of
old strived? Inhale its exquisite aroma; enjoy its superb bou-
quet; it brings to the mind's eye the smiling rye fields, the rye
waving joyously in the sun, and the troop of happy children
passing through. Look again, and the liquid amber, coupled
with the word Monongahela, brings remembrances of George
Washington (who also owned a distillery) and the stirring days
of the whisky insurrection. Look again, and you see another of
the immortals, Lincoln, selling it. Pour a little more; that is
incense, indeed.   See the crown of nature's beads that puts a
diadem on King Kye. It is the essence of sumnier days concen-
trated in crystal. A proper palace for King Eve.
           "Pick him up carefully, haudle with care    ;


            Fashioned so charmingly and debonair."
     He is welcome everywhere. Take him to your heart and he
warms it, cheers you, puts you in the best spirits.
    So you ask me how rye whisky is made? Corne with me to
one of the celebrated distilleries of the Monongahela Yalley;
the Bridgeport distillery at South Brownsville, Pa. We will
take the New York Central lines up and corne down on the
Pennsylvania lines, both of which pass through the distillery
property, and while you are looking at the vast number of mills
and iron works in this valley, that succeed one another with
amazing rapidity, until we get beyond Monessen, about forty
miles from Pittsburg, I will try to tell you a little about the dis-
tillation of whisky before we reach the plant and, by the way,
                                                ;


what a number of distilleries there are in this valley We first
                                                           !




pass Finch's, then Tom Moore, while Large is a little in the in-
terior near Elizabeth, then Sunnyside, Gibson, the Hamburger
Distilling Co., Thompson, Yandergrift, the two Old Gray dis-
tilleries, Emery, Lippincott, and a number of other smaller
distilleries.
     You know that Socrates thought the yeasting germ, the
germ of life itself, and, as you are well aware, ail brewing and
distilling is founded on the fermentation of the liqnor through
the yeast germ.
      Ancient Egypt had its beer, and there is no civilized coun-
try that does not have its liquor. Scientiiic brewing and dis-
tilling is based upon the famous researches of Pasteur.         The
fou n dation that he had has been built upon by other s, so that
to-day the yeasting and fermenting are scientific studies in or-
ganic chemistry, while the distillation itself is a study in alco-
holmetry. If anywhere the adage holds good that "Cleanliness
is next to Godliness," it is in a distillery, for the healthy yeast
germ and proper fermentation can only take place where the
distillery is clean and sweet, and a good yield is then made.
      There is another thing that you should know before you
inspect the distillery, and that is that the entire plant is bonded
to the United States; that the Government inspectors have
charge and supervision of everything that goes into the manu-
facture of whisky, and have complète charge of the warehouses
and the goods until they are tax-paid.
     We   have now arrived, and after going through the power-
house, with its battery of boilers and its engines and light plant,
we see cars of choice rye on the siding being emptied by convey-
ing niachinery, which carries the grain into the cleaner. It is
then weighed and elevated, and from the elevators it is conveyed
to the mills, where it is gronnd and sent to the meal hoppers.
The malt is treated in the saine way in separate malt mills.
The hopper scale is weighed by the Government inspector, and
the proper amount of rye malt dropped into the mash tub, where
it is continnally stirred while cooking, and after it lias been
cooked to the proper température it is cooled ofi°, and the malt
pnt in and cooked at a certain température imtil the cooking
process is complète. Meantime the yeast has been put into the
fermenting tnb. The cooked grain is then run through coolers
and cooled to the proper température and put in the fermenting
tubs, where it remains not exceeding seventy-two hours. Mean-
time the distiller is busy taking the températures and making
his tests, and when the saccharine matter is ail out, the ferment-
ed liquor or beer is then run into a beer well, from whence it is
passed into a three-chamber still, then through a doubler and
run into a tank, from whence it is redistilled, sent to the cistern
through closed pipes under lock and seal, and then barreled in
the présence of the United States gauger, from whence it is de-
livered into the custody of the United States storekeeper as it is
passed into the warehouses for storage and aging. The whole
process is interesting, and one could stand by the hour looking
at the various phases of the fermentation.
     You ask me why rye is preferred to other grains. Even
makers of Bourbon Avhiskies boast of the quantity of small
grains they use, as that indicates a better quality and sweetness,
and rye makes one of the sweetest whiskies it is possible to
distill.
     You have noticed that there is absolutely no opportunity
for adultérationthat the entire process is under the argus eyes
                   ;


of the Government inspectors, and probably there is no line of
industry that has less opportunity for mixing or adulterating
than the distillation of whisky, as you have seen for yourself.
     You seem surprised at the splendid buildings, the large
massive warehouses heated by steam, so that there is a per-
pétuai summer, and the goods are matured much more rapidly
than in the olden times. And you also ask to see the bottling
house, where bottled-in-bond goods are completed. You find it
a very busy place, the Government inspectors on the look-out
and the machinery busy, and the hands ail intent on their work,
and you find thèse cases being shipped in lots to ail parts of the
country.
     One of my frien^ in one of the so-called prohibition States
sent me the following lines  :




             "Drink and the world drinks with you    ;


              Swear ofi°, and you drink alone."
       "pie      Wmes
                   of   France



              KODUCING some 2,000 différent varieties of wine,
                the most noted Brandy distilled from wine, and
                varions liqueurs based on wine, France stands
                to-day foremost among the nations as a wine
                country. Its vineyards are innnmerable.
     It lias not attained this point of supremacy so easily, how-
ever, as the story of the vine in France pictnres many difficul-
ties and hardships, the vineyardists struggling against ail nian-
ner of discouragement.    In fact, throughout the entire history
of this country, the story of wine-making is closely interwoven,
and, at some of the most critical times in its history, the part
played by the vine was important. Yet, strange to say, the vine
was not native to France, but, according to best authority, was
introduced there during the sixth century, B. C. It was with
the advent of the Christian Church, however, that the planting
of vineyards became universal in France, and its more glorious
history then began. Indeed, the monks are largely responsible
for the popularity of wine drinking, making and seliing it them-
selves, and have given to the world some of the more popular
^ arieties.

     But, to-day, the position of France as a wine-making conn-
try is unquestioned, and this is one of the country's most im-
portant industries, and is so recognized to such an extent that
the Government has become paternalistic in regard to it. For
example, a law adopted December 17, 1908, established the
boundaries of the région from whose grapes the wine produced
is alone permitted to be called Champagne, and, during the
présent year, a new law has.been proposed to further guarantee
the origin of Champagne wine in the région whose boundaries
were fixed in the former law.
     The soil of France is varied in the différent sections, which
are known as "departments," and in each of thèse departments
wines of entirely différent character are produced. Those which
are most generally and favorably known are Champagne, Sau-
ternes, Clarets, and Burgundies. As other articles in this book
are devoted to Champagne, Sauternes, and Clarets, it is un-
necessary to dwell upon them at length here. The story of
Champagne, however, bears ont what has been said about the
important part played by the Church in developing the making
of wine in France, as it was a Bénédictine Monk who invented
Champagne, termed by the French "Vin Mousseux." There are
five arrondissements of tlie Department of Champagne, where
Champagne grapes are grown: Chalons sur Marne, Eperney,
Kheims, Sainte-Mene Hould and Vitry-le-Francois, but the right
to the nanie of genuine French Champagne is now limited to
the wine made from the grapes of Rheiins and Eperney.
     In gênerai parlance, when the wine of the Champagne dis-
trict is referred to, the sparkling wine is meant, y et, in this
same district, still wines are made that are claimed by some to
be the best in France. At one time there was quite a contro-
versy as to whether the still wines from Champagne or Bur-
gundy wines were the better. Of the red wines grown at
Rheims, the two finest are the Killy and Bouzy.
     The Sauterne district comprises a portion of the Depart-
ment of Gironde and part of the Medoc, and is called in France
the Graves. The soil here consists of sand and gravel, mixed
with more or less clay, so that one would hardly expect to have
such luxuriant vines as produce the popular Sauterne wines.
It is from another part of the Gironde, where, likewise, the soil
would appear to be almost worthless, that the Medoc wines, or
Clarets, as we know them, are produced.
      Tlie most famous red wines of France are those from the
Burgundy district, and known by this naine. The vines are
grown on the Cote d' Or, which is a chain of hills averaging
from 800 to 1,000 feet in height. For thirty miles the vineyards
extend in one continuons row on the sides of thèse hills. The
soil is of yellowish red, accountiDg for the name of the district,
and Burgundy is probably tlie oldest wine-producing district in
entire Europe. One authority gives his views of the best Bur-
gundy wine in the following language: "In richness of flavor,
and in perfume, and ail the more délicate qualifies of the grape,
they unquestionably rank as the finest in the world."
     The Department of the Pyrénées Orientales is another
where vineyards in full leaf and ail their beauty may be seen
stretching out mile after mile, both on the level land and on the
hillsides.   Here, the very driest and, likewise, the sweetest of
Avinés are made in the same neighborhood. The dry wine,
known as Grenache wine, which, through a peculiar process of
manufacture, partakes more of the nature of a liqueur, is laid
away in cellars for many years before it is said to be really fit
for use.    From the same neighborhood cornes Muscat wine,
which is very sweet, and for the first year is like a syrup, but,
after the second year, becomes clear and acquires the bouquet
which has given it its réputation. Maccabeo and Malvoysie are
two more liqueur wines made in this vicinity, and a large num-
ber of other wines, also grown in this department, are classified
under the name of Rousillion wines.
    According to an old narrative, on the left border of the
Bhone, in the commune of Tain, one of the Queen's courtiers,
in the year 1225, wishing to leave court life, built himself a
retreat on an isolated MIL It became known as his hermitage,
and lie experimented witli wine-making tliere with great suc-
cess.  This is where the world was given the wines that have
since become celebrated as the Hermitage wines.    The vine-
yards, though small, produce wines of such rare excellence that
their famé has spread wherever wine is drunk.       Both red and
white wines are made here, but the white wine is the best and
the one that has acquired famé.
     The wines specifically mentioned above constitute the
classes of the best known of the many différent kinds that are
produced in France, but, as already stated, other beverages
made from wine have added to the greatness of the industry in
this country.    In the year 1313, the art of distillation was in-
troduced in France, and, being especially adopted in the Cham-
pagne district, resulted in the production of wine Brandy,
which has become more known under the term of Cognac. This
name was applied because most of the Brandy was distilled in
the city of Cognac, in the Department of Charente, but, con-
trary to some popular belief, Cognac Brandy is not distilled
from the sparkling wine known as Champagne, but is made
from the wines produced in the Campagne district.
     Liqueurs and Cordials are made from wines distilled or
blended with varions herbs and plants. Here, again, the monks
were the originators, and to them the world is indebted for the
production of those Cordials that are to-day so popular, and
whose manufacture has developed into a large industry. The
art of making the différent Liqueurs was closely guarded in the
cloisters where they were originally made, and the processes
have always been regardée! as a valuable secret, as for each Cor-
dial différent roots and herbs are required, and there must be a
minute knowledge of the préparation of them, the right quan-
tifies to use, and the proper methods of distillation.   The exact
processes were kept within the bounds of the cloisters, and only
made known to the new recruits among the monks, themselves.
This was the history of that most famous of French Liqueurs,
Chartruese, which was originally made by the Càrthusian
Monks in their monastery near Grenoble. But, during the ré-
cent troubles of the monks, when they were ordered out of
France, they sold their secret for an immense sum, and the
Liqueurs such as they manufactured are now being made by a
private company in France, although recently the monks have
denied their right to the use of the name Chartruese. But
withal, with the advance of science and chemistry, most of the
secrets of the monks in the distillation of various Liqueurs have
become known, and thèse delightfnl beverages are now being
manufactured equally as well by régulai* business concerns.
                                                  BY
    Ç^auternes                           ALBERT M. HIRSCHFELD
                                               New York




                The White Wines of France are known under
           the naine of "Sauternes," and are grown in the De-
           partment of the Gironde.
                The vineyards are situated chieny on the left
           bank of the River Garonne, some miles south of the
           city of Bordeaux, from whence thèse wines are ex-
ported to ail parts of the world.
     The favorable situation of the vineyards, which are exposed
to the direct rays of the sun, cause the grapes to grow to a high
degree of maturity; and, besides this advantage, the soil is-
peculiarly suited, it being composed partly of white clay and of
a generally sandy nature.
    Besides thèse natural advantages, great care is exercised
in the cultivation of the vine plants and the manner of vintag-
ing, which, in its method, is peculiar to this district.
    Some of the principal towns around which the best spéci-
mens of wines are obtained, and from which they dérive their
distinctive names, are:    Cerons, Barsac, Fargues, Preignac,.
Sauterne, Bommes, etc. also around the Châteaux of Yquem,
                          ;


Vigneau, Suduirant, La Tour Blanche, Rabaud, La Passonne
Cadillac, Grand Perrot, St. Croix du Mont, Château Ferrand,.
etc.  The wines grown around thèse Châteaux are considered
the finest spécimens of high-class Sauternes.
     The proprietors of thèse Châteaux bottle the finer qùalities
of good vintages in their own cellars and affix their own labels
and coat-of-arms, and thus as "Châteaux Bottled Wines" give
a degree of authenticity and of undoubted quality, which com-
mand high priées in every market.
     It is doubtless due to the hilly situation of the vineyards
and the care bestowed on their cultivation that the grapes from
which Sauternes are made are superior to many others; the
care, also, with which they are gathered and pressed gives the
peculiar excellence, both in flavor and aroma, for which thèse
wines are famous.
     The grapes are allowed to "over-ripen," and the bunches
form a kind of "fermentation fungus," and to this is ascribed
the peculiar and delicious bouquet, and the exqnisite bright
golden color of the wine.
     Much time and money is thus expended on the vintaging
of the grapes, as every bunch lias to be carefully examined, and
unless it is found perfect in every respect, it is not used for the
finer qualities.
        It lias been computed that the average expense of cultiva-
tion is front 250 to 300 francs per hnndred (twenty-four dozen),
it cannot, therefore, be wondered at that gennine Sauternes
cannot be obtained as cheaply as some of the Ked Wines of
France.
     In classifying Sauternes, it is undoubtedly a fact that the
wines of the Château d'Yquem, Château La Tour Blanche, Châ-
teau Vigneau, Château Kabaud, and Château Suduiraut take
the foremost rank, and, next to thèse in the order given, corne
the Haut Sauternes, Sauternes, Barsac and Graves.
     Ail Sauternes are sweet or sweetish in character, but the
excess of sweetness disappears considerably with a few years of
"bottle âge."
    As "table wines,'- Sauternes are eminently suitable. They
are délicate in flavor and stimulate the appetite. In alcoholic
strength they are far below Sherries, but they are, nevertheless,
exhilarating and sustaining.
     They are especially suitable to be served with oysters and
fish.
     In order to préserve their full aroma, Sauternes, and es-
pecially the finer qualifies, should not be "iced;" a médium
température will be sufficient to préserve ail their character-
istics.
                                                  A glass or two
        As "dessert wines" they are simply perfect.
of high-class "vintage"  Sau terne at the end of a meal will not
only aid digestion, but will warm the whole System and diffuse
a feeling of lightness and of comfort.
     From a médicinal stanclpoint, the white wines of France
rank foremost. For dyspepsia they are invaluable. White
wines contain less tannin, tartrates and iron than red wines,
but more acetic ether. Whilst containing the same quantity of
alcohol as the red wines, their action is more "heady" and more
exhilarating.
     For obesity, especially, and affections of the liver, they are
most emphatically efficacious.
     The sweeter Sauternes, Château La Tour Blanche, Yquem,
Kabaud, Vigneau, etc., possessing a greater alcoholic strength,
will be found most bénéficiai in cases of exhaustion, nervous
prostration, hemorrhage, and in ail cases of mental .or bodily
fatigue.
        As
        dessert wines they are not only delicious, but they
greatly aid the digestion and impart a cheerful glow to the
System.
    For further médical évidence regarding Sauternes, I quote
Dr. Mauriac, of Bordeaux. He says in one of his works      :
     a The great Sauternes white wines, which are of
                                                         a rela-
tively higli alcoholic strength, are both tonic and stimulating;
consurned moderately, they are invaluable to convalescents
after a severe illness, or when it is necessary to revive an organ-
ism extenuated by high     fever,   liemorrhage, or long fatigue.
They are perfect as dessert wines, and one or two glasses at the
end of a meal facilitate digestion and provoke gaiety."
    In short, as a Frencli poet lias it   :




        "Un rayon de soleil concentre dans un verre."
    Or, "A concentrated ray of sunshine in a wine glass."
                                                     BY
                                             H. GRUENEBAUM
     ^^larets                                 Of Sonn Bros. Co.
                                                 New York




                The poets of ail générations hâve eulogized the
           clarets of the Gironde even Ausone, the f amous poet
                                  ;


           of the fourth centnry, lias idolized them in his poenis.
                The clarets of Gascogne, aniongst which the
           clarets of Bordeaux occnpied a prominent place, en-
           joyed, in the year 1302, a firm réputation in the Lon-
don markets.
     Althongh, in the middle of the sixteenth centnry, the con-
sumption of the clarets derived from Spain and Portugal in-
creased to an alarming degree in the London market, yet it was
impossible to dethrone the French clarets, which, through their
exquisite taste, quality and bouquet, maintained their superi-
ority above ail others, and graduai ly obtained a world-wide
réputation. A prominent Ambassador of France, speaking of
the coining of English sovereigns in London, at that time stated
that most of this precious métal would find its way into France
through the enormous sales of French clarets from Gascogne;
and we find in a manuscript given out by the Mercantile Asso-
ciation of Bordeaux, in the year 1730, that the clarets shipped
from Bordeaux annually attained the stupendous figure of
70,000 tons, principally sold to England, Holland, Sweden, Den-
mark and America.
     The production of clarets in France increased to such an
alarming degree that the vénérable Minister Montesquieu in-
duced the farmers to destroy their vines and turn over their
fields to the production of wheat or other cereals.  In 1787 the
Bureau of Commerce in Bordeaux published that the animal
average crops of claret of Gironde attained the enormous figure
of 200,000 tons, valued at the exorbitant amount of 510,000,000
francs.
     Similar to the soil of Havana, particularly adapted to the
growing of tobacco, the same can be applied to the Department
of Gironde, known under the name of Clarets of Bordeaux.
     This territory, comprising about 1,000,000 acres, produces
the fanions St. Estephe, St. Emilion, St. Julien, PauiHac, Sau-
vignon, and the white wines Le Sauvignon, Le Semilion and
Vigneau.
    Among the most known brands, let us not forget Château
Margaux, Château Lafite, Château Latour, Mouton, and many
others which have attained a world-wide réputation; and last,
but not least, the Château Yquem, king of ail white wines.
     Notwithstanding the fact that the wine producers and
prominent chemists in California have done their utmost to
imitate as nearly as possible the French clarets, it has been of
no avail. Therefore, the French clarets will always stand at
the zénith of famé, glory and réputation, from whence no com-
pétition will ever dethrone them.
                                                  BY
          Short History                       WM. HOMMEL
                                            Of Hommel Wine Co.
              of       Champagne                Sandusky, O.




                As Champagne is without doubt the king of ail
            beverages de hixe, it is very appropriate to give in
            the ooltmms of "Beverages de Luxe" a short but
            authentic history of its origin and the process of pro-
            ducing the sparkling wine.
                 It originated in France in the small Department
de La Champagne, hence its nauie, which has long since become
a generic name and used everywhere that human brain and in-
genuity has penetrated. The first wines made in the Depart-
ment de La Champagne of France were still wines, and their
first production and introduction of the vines are lost in the
niidst of antiquity, as the wines of Southern France were cele-
brated even before the Christian Era, many centuries before
wines were ever made in the province of Champagne.
      The date of the first growing of grapes in Champagne was
about 282 A. D., and their growth and production of wine in-
creased in spite of hardship, ignorance, fire and warfare to
great proportions, until about the sixteenth century. The in-
dustry then being so important, a more careful study was made
thereof, and the producers and makers began to notice a natural
tendency of the wines of Champagne to effervesce; in fact, it
was difîicult to overcome this fact and avoid losing some entire-
ly; but it remained for Dom Perignon, a Bénédictine Monk,
Avhether by accident or diligent study, to really discover the
process of producing sparkling wine. This was in 1670 at Haut-
villers.  He also contrived the idea of marrying or blending
wines of various sections and qualities in order to make a first-
class cuvée, or blend.
     It was also Perignon who originated the flûte, at that time
the proper glass to drink it from, in order, as he said, "To watch
the dance of the sparkling atoiiis." Now we have the more ap-
propriate low, hollow-stemmed Champagne glass.
     The réputation vas soon established, and the demand for
the sparkling class of vines of the Champagne increased by
leaps and bounds and as the production of the sparkling wines
                   ;


Avas limited entirely to the province of Champagne, and the de-
mand spread ail over Europe and the civilized world, the still
wines became practically obsolète, and any wines coming from
there were generally supposed to be sparkling.          Gradually,
hoAvever, other provinces and eountri.es began to produce spark-
ling wines, and became known to everybody as Champagne,
whether made in Bordeaux or Borgougne province, or America,
Germany, Italy or Au stria.
     At the same time, the original bouses were growing in size
rapidly and continu où sly, and their capacities grew until now
some of the large houses of France have stocks of 13,000,000
bottles.  Thirteen millions is easily said, but when one stops to
realize what enormons space 1,000,000 bottles will require, and
then multiply it by thirteen, same seenis almost an absurdity,
especially when the élabora te process and long time it requires
is taken into considération.
    We    have also cellars in America with capacities of from
500,000 to 2,000,000, ail made on the same process, and with the
same elaborate care. No ne but the choicest of grapes are used,
and only from selected locations. When the vintage season
arrives tliey are hauied to the winery, where they are pressed
and the juice run off into large casks to ferment. So far the
process lias been very single, but now the Champagne expert
gets in his work and intelligence, blending the various juices, so
as to make one cuvée, or homogeneous mass, iierfect in taste,
color, acidity and bouquet. After the cuvée is made it is ready
for bottling, where the second fermentation takes place. When
fermented they are lowered into the cellars to cool off and ripen.
     The ripening period usually takes two and one-half to three
years, after which time the now Champagne can be put on the
market if necessary, but the first-class cellars rarely attempt to
put their brands out before four or five years. When the wine is
bottle ripe it is put on tables "surpointe ;" that is, the bottles
are ail neck down. After it has reposed on the tables for twenty-
four hours the "remeuer" proceeds with his daily opération of
handling each bottle by giving it a rotary shake for two to six
weekSj at the end of which time the wine is supposed to be
crystal clear, the sédiment formed by fermentation having been
worked down to the cork.
     The next opération is the disgorging or taking out the sédi-
ment. This is done neatly, easily, and with little loss of wine
or sparkle by experienced men, and the syrup is then added.
Before adding an y syrup the wine is tart and is called "Brut,"
meaning raw. The ara omit of syrup added usually désignâtes
the grade thereof, under the names Sweet, Médium, Extra Dry
or Spécial Dry, etc. The bottle is then recorked with a new and
expensive finishing cork, which is fastened down by means of a
pronged wire, and the bottle is then ready for the packing room,
where it is again piled up for a week or so to repose and
assimilate.
    When needed for market, each bottle is examined with
candie light, saine as candling eggs, to separate the defective
bottles.   The defective bottles are those from which the sédi-
ment lias not completely disappeared, or with pièces of cork,
etc.   After this process the bottles are ready to be dressed up
for inarket with a fancy cap or foil, handsome labels, and
wrapped in neat tissue paper, to be cased np in cases of twelve
bottles or twenty-four half bottles, and usually sell at §12.00
and $14.00 per case, np to $22.00 and $24.00 per case. One Ohio
firni commanding the price of $22.00 and $21.00 per case for one
of their brands, and $11.00 and $16.00 for another.
      American Champagnes or sparkiing wines are coming to
the front very rapidly, owing to many reasons, viz     :  American
pnsh and enterprise; the American article lias a natnral bou-
qnet of its own, given it by the grape, and not added as in the
iniported article the eifervescense is snperior, and the methods
                 ;



used are identicaL; and last, but not least, the différence in price
at which the two articles are sold. The iniported article costs
no more to prodnce than the home prodnct, but with $9.60 duty
added, $2.00 consnlar fees, $1.00 transportation, and $10.00 at
least added by the lavish way in which they are boomed, pins
the original cost of §9.00 per case for twenty-four half bottles,
and the amount of $31.60 is completed, about the average cost
of the iniported article.
      The above short pernsal on the production of Champagne
covers it in gênerai, but the fact mnst not be overlooked that the
real work occupies a space of time of tvo and one-half to three
years, and each bottle is handled from 160 to 210 tinies, and
has been under the diligent care of careful supervision contin-
ually; and the easiest and most pleasing opération is the last,
that of popping the cork to the ceiling, and toasting ail your
friends to a long life and a merry one.
                                                    BY
                                             GEO. C. HOWELL
        ^herry                             Of Samuel Streit & Co.
                                               New York City




                Vinos de Jerez (Xerez old style), Jerez wine,
           pronounced Hehreth, was found impossible to the
           early English tongue, and was corrupted to Sherris,
           afterwards Sherry, and is now known as Sherry
           wine.
                Nowhere else ean Sherry be produced but in the
white chalky soil of the hills, in a triangular district, marked by
the cities of Jerez, Port St. Mary's, and Sanlucar, province of
Cadiz, South Spain.     H ère it lias been grown for centuries,
altkough, as happened in the Bordeaux and in other districts,
the vineyards of the Jerez district were almost entirely de-
stroyed by Phyloxera, they hâve been replanted to a great ex-
tent, and are again producing exactly the saine wine.   When the
vin es were destroyed, the vineyard proprietors were confronted
with a very grave situation; replanting was an expensive opéra-
tion stocks h ad to be secured whose roots would withstand the
    ;




attack of Phyloxera, and grafts from the old vines employed.
It was a question whether the sanie wine would be produced.
This bas been settled satisfactorily, but only a portion of the
vineyards, less than one-half, have been replanted; so that,
where the hills ten years ago were covered with a mantle of
green, now more than half appears glistening white in the hot
sunshine.
      Some thirty years ago the old Spanish family of Sancho,
proprietors for many years of the célébra ted Vineyard El
Caribe, which produces Amontillado Don Quixote, sent by re-
quesl to California cuttings from their best and most vigorous
vines; thèse were grafted, and the resuit was in every case a
beautiful vine, but in no case was the wine similar in any way
to Sherry.   This experiment, with the more récent one of re-
planting in Spain, goes to prove that it is soil and climate more
than anything else which is responsible for the peculiar flavor
and bouquet of wines from certain districts, which makes their
superiority and renown.
     There is no secret process, nor, as is the common belief, is
Sherry made in a différent way from that employed in making
other wines.   After the grapes are i^ressed at the vineyard
house the juice (Mosto) is pumped into large casks, which are
carried on bullock carts, generally at night, to the Bodegas
(large stone overground cellars) at Jerez de la Frontera, Port
St. Mary, or Sanlucar.   ïïere the Mosto goes through the pro-
cess of fermentation, where the saccharine niatter is changed
to alcohol and carbonic acid gas, the latter going free, while the
alcoholic strength increases in the Mosto, until it reaches the
point where it kills further fermentation, leaving some sac-
charine nnfermented, or where ail the saccharine has been
transformed. The wine is then drawn off, and is aged like other
wines, bnt, unlike other wines, which are kept in dark under-
gronnd cellars, the Spanish Bodegas are large stone buildings,
with many Windows and openings, giving plenty of light an&
sunshine and a free circulation of air.
     Sherry is now used in médicinal compounds, in combina-
tion, more than any other wine; but why lessen its strength-
giving powers by combination? The fact that from the time
the grapes are ripened on the high sunny hills until the wine is
bottled, Sherry is always surrounded by pure air and sunshine,
should be considered by the médical profession, and the
strengthening powers of old Amontillado should be more widely
known and appreciated.      The longevity of the inhabitants of
Andalucia is well known.    There is an old taie of an Archbishop
of Seville who lived to be one hundred and twenty-five years old,
and always drank half a bottle of Amontillado at dinner; but
on the days lie was not feeling just right, he braced up with two
bottles.
        There are a number of varieties of white grapes used in
making Sherry, and consequently a number of différent styles
of Sherry; but Sherry is classified under two grand divisions:
Finos and Jerezanos.
     Finos are the pale, Jerezanos the darker wines. Finos are
sub-divided into Vino de Pasto, Palo Cortado, Palma and Amon-
tillado.  Jerezanos are sub-divided into I. Raya, II. Raya, III.
Raya. I. Raya's are aged and become Oloroso or Amoroso. II.
Raya's and III. Raya's are either mixed with the cheap wines
of the plains or distilled.
     This classification is made by the Almacenista (the mer-
chant who buys from the grower and âges Sherry, keeping the
vintages separate as Anadas), or by his Capataz (head cellar
man), and it must be made correctly, or the conséquent loss
may be enormous. The dilficulty can be somewhat imagined
when one understands that two Bodega Butts, lying side by
side, containing wines from the same vintage, will develop
differently; one will be Fino, the other Jerezano.     This phe-
nomenon cannot be explained, but it is a fact.
     Although the vineyard proprietors, almost without excep-
tion, were, and still are, Spaniards, the shipping of the wines
was entirely in the hands of Englishïnen wlio had settled in
Spain, and for that reason, shipping vaines are expressed in
pounds sterling; but conditions are changing, and the vineyard
proprietors are gradnally becoming skippers of their own wines.
     Taking the Sherry shippers and their Capitaces as a class,
ten per cent, are moderate drinkers or abstainers; ninety per
cent, are good, generous drinkers the death rate shows ten per
                                  ;


cent, die under seventy, ninety per cent, live to be seventy or
over, and of the latter, fifteen per cent, reach the ripe old âge
of ninety years. From this one can nnderstand why Sherry is
                                              —
named in Andalucia "la lèche de los viejos" the milk for the
aged.
     That Sherry is becoming more popular as a beverage here
in the United States can be seen by the increase in the number
of gallons imported each year, as shown by United States cus-
toms statistics. This is due, in a great measure, to the fact that
Amontillado bottled in Spain has been introduced to the Amer-
ican consumer at the clubs, at the hôtel bars, and at the cafés
in its native purity.  A  glass of Amontillado, with or without
bitters, is beginning to appeal to the American taste as an ap-
petizer.   At dinner Amontillado is served with the soup, the
glasses are refilled during the lish course, and frequently are
only removed when the roast appears. In the kitchen, the chef,
when preparing shellfish or terrapin, would be at a loss without
Sherry. In fact, for the educated taste, there is no wine like
Sherry, and, of ail wines, Sherry is most useful for ail purposes.
<**^BBl^
              r
                  HIS magnificent wine is marie in the célébrât ed vine-
  £
  A       "1
            yards of the Upper Douro, a mountainous région
            in the north of Portugal, soine sixty miles up the
            River Douro from Oporto. Here, on the slopes of
            the hills, the vines are grown and the wine is
made, and, when ready, sent down the river by boat, or by rail,
to mature in the "iodges" or stores of the wine shippers at Villa
Nova de Gaia, Oporto.
    Great Britain is by far the largest consumer of Port Wine,
and was in the past practically the only consumer. Perhaps
the favorite type of Port is still the Vintage Wine, i. e., a wine
shipped two or three years after it is made, and then matured
in bottles many years; and this to an Englishman of the old
school   is       "real Port.*'   For the last twenty years, however,
Tawny Ports have become increasingly popular, largely owing
to the recommendation of the médical profession, who consider
that this type of wine is more digestible and less provocative of
gout.    "Tawny Port" is a Port Wine which has been matured in
the cash for   many years and has lost color, i. e., become
"Tawny," and is in flavor and body quite distinct from a wine
matured in bottle, A large quanti ty of Port is consumed in
Russia, Germany, Scandinavia and Brazil. In Russia "White
Ports" (made from white grapes) is very popular, while in
Germany and Scandinavia the taste runs to Tawny Wines.
Brazil also consumes a fair qnantity, but it is of a very light
type, and is not shipped there by the English houses.
     In the United States of America there is a growing demand
for Port, especially for the fineTawny Wines. There is very
littledoubt that this type of wine will steadily grow in favor
in the United States.
                                                         BY

           o   n German
                      Wines
                                             PHILIP HOLLENBACH
                                            Près. Phil. Hollenbach Co.

                                                   Louisville, Ky.




                   To know kow to drink wine belongs only to a
               cultivated taste; to know kow to tempt guests to in-
               dulge in it witk i^leasure belongs only to tke kost
               gifted witk rare tact and artistic discrimination.
                    A painting from tke kand of a master must be
               placed in a favorable ligkt and witk appropriate sur-
ronndings to set off: its excellence; tke most beautifnl woman
despises not tke act of enkancing ker ckarms by karmonious
auxiliaries or by jndicious contrasts.
     Since time immémorial tke poets of ail nations kave been
inspired to sing tke famé of German wine. Tke old bards knew
full well tke delicious bringer of heaventy bliss to tke poor
eartk-ckained being known as tke species "komo sapiens."
     One of onr greatest poets, Henry Wadswortk Longfellow,
sings of tke vintage of 1811, wkick ke fomid in a convent cellar,
tkns   :




            "And wkenever a goblet tkereof I drain,
             Tke old rkyme keeps running in my brain          :



                 At Backarack on tke Ekine,
                   At Hockkeim on tke Main,
                 And at Wnrzburg on tke Stein,
                   Grow tke tkree best kinds of wine."
       Matkias Clandius, tke renowned German poet, says              :




   "The Ekine, tke Ekine      — tkere grow tke gay plantations!
                        O kallowed be tke Ekine!
       Upon kis banks are brewed tke rick potations
                        Of tkis consoling wine."

     Tke Eivers Ekine, Moselle, Neckar, Akr, Main, Nake, are
bordered witk vineyards, wkence tke golden jnice of tke grapes
cornes to enjoy tke keart of man.
                              —
     Pure wine is a tonic natnre's tonic. Its low percentage
of alcokol renders it at once tke most expédient and tke most
wkolesome drink tkat can be used. It is a gift of Nature tke             —
Great Creator. But, alas! not every year tkat rolls by does
bring us tkis delicious fluid.
     Tke quality, as well as quantity, of wine differs to a great
extent, due to nieteorological erïects and to herbivorous Terrain
which tend to destrov the fruit of ni an' s labor.
    The last century gave us sonie very line yintages, aniongst
which the years 1811, 1834, 1865 and 1893 were excellent in
quality and quantity. The last fire or six years hâve yielded
hardly any crop at ail, and were alniost a total failure.
     Eich old wines were nursed with great skill in the German
cities by the employées of the city council and were dispensed
in the council cellar in olden tinies. Yea, wine had the quality
of being used as currency, and fines on miscreants were iniposed
in such a way that the culprit had to pay one or more ohms of
wine of a certain vintage.
     To-day almost every German city has a Eathskeller (coun-
cil cellar ) situated in the basement of the city hall, and there
the wine, in goblets of crystal, causes often the partakers of a
f east to sing with Mathias Claudius :




        "Drink to the Ehine And every coming inorrow
                             !




                  Be mirth and m a sic thine î



         And when we meet a child of care and sorrow,
                  We'll send him to the Ehine."
                                                    BY
        j^ew England                      FREDERIC L. FELTON
                                              Of Felton & Son
             Rum                               Boston, Mass.




                 Any account of beverages de luxe would be in-
            complète without some référence to the distillation
            of Rum, an industry which dates back to the early
            days of the colonies, and which has continued with
            the usual variations down to the présent date. One
            of the first points, of course, is to disabuse the mind
of the reacier of any idea which he may have that this refers to
Rum in the extremeiy broad and gênerai sensé in which the
word is used by n early ail of the anti -liquor élément, as well as
by some who are in the habit of using stimulants. It is a com-
mon thing in even the best jonrnals to see références such as
"Rum did it," or "The Rum élément,'' the ternis being meant
to cover everything alcoholic. As a matter of fact, the produc-
tion of Rum in this country is about one and one-half per cent,
of the total production of strong alcoholic liquors, and the
actual use of Rum as a beverage is still smaller proportionately.
     Many articles and chapters have been written on the be-
ginning of the manufacture of Rum, as well as the dérivation
of the word itself. As to the exact period when the distillation
of a potable liquor from molasses began, it is probably prac-
tically coeval with the beginning of the manufacture of the cane
sugar itself. According to a paper on the etymology of the
word "Rum," written for private circulation some years ago by
N. Darnell Davis, who at that time occupied an important offi-
ciai position in the colony of British Guiana, Rum was first
distilled from the juice of the sugar cane in Barbadoes about
the year 1640 or 1645, and the name the planters of the colony
gave to the new liquor was "kill devil." At a comparatively
early period it was callecl "Rum-bullion," a word which ex-
pressed the idea of a great quarrel or tumult.
     In the library of Trinity Collège, Dublin, there is a manu-
script containing a description of Barbadoes about the year
1651.   The writer refers to the new spirit as follows "The chief
                                                         :



fuddling they make in the island is Rum-bullion, alias Kill
Divill, and this is made of sugar canes distilled, a hot, hellish,
and terrible liquor."
     Mr. Davis thinks that it was about the year 1660 that Rum-
bullion was clipped of two of its syllables, but the first mention
of the abridged word in any public document in Barbadoes ap-
pears to have been in an act passed in 1668 to prevent the sale
of both brandy and rum in the tippling houses near the most
frequented highways or roads of the island. The word "Rum,"
however, occurs in certain orders of the Government and coun-
cil of Jamaica as early as 1661.
     As to the exact date of the beginning of this industry in the
United States, Rum appears to have been manufactured in New
England before 1687, as "New England Rum" sold in that year
at ls. 6d. per gallon, which is practically to-day's wholesale
price for New Rum, not including the internai revenue tax.
     In the old days of this country many of the best men of the
town of Boston, in addition to being great ship owners, were
distillers of New England Rum, those two industries being put
down in the history of the times as two of the most important
in Boston, and the commodity itself was not only used as a
staple for family consumption and as a cheering adjunct to
officiai and social events,
                          as the laying of corner stones of pub-
lic buildings and the building of churches, but was early used
as one of the great instruments in assisting to civilize and
christianize our black brothers in Africa.    During ail of the
time since, the distillation of Rum has been confined almost
entirely to New England, ail the Rum made in this country, in
faet, having corne to bear the distinctive name, "New England
Rum," as being différent from the imported article.
      The Rum of domestic use to-day, which has been aged for
many years in the wood, is very différent from the "hot, hellish,
and terrible liquor" above referred to. Much care is taken by
those distillers making a specialty of ûne old Rum in the sélec-
tion of their molasses, the fermentation and distillation, as well
as in the sélection of the barrel and storage in which it is kept.
Both as an art and an industry, the business of distilling Rum
has remained, as a sort of heirloom, through successive généra-
tions in some of our oldest and most respectable New England
families, who have taken pride and pains in bringing it up to
the highest attainable standard of perfection.
     The gênerai tendency noticeable in other lines of business,
too  numerous   to specify individually, toward consolidation, or
at least towards fewer and larger manufacturing plants, has
applied as well to the manufacture of New England Rum, and
while in 1753 there were sixty-three distilleries in Massachu-
setts, and fifty years ago perhaps thirty small distilleries scat-
tered along the New England coast from New Haven to Port-
land, there are to-day but eight in the United States, ail but one
of those being located in New England, and only two outside of
Massachusetts.
      While, during the past thirty years, there has been an in-
crease of about 125 per cent, in the production of distilled
spirits in gênerai, there has been practically no increase in tlie
production of Knm.
    The maximum production of Rum reaclied 2,439,301 in the
fiscal year ending June 30, 1880.
     The manufacture of Rum has not kept pace with the in-
crease in population. This is due to the fact that drinking, like
other things, including architecture and clothes, has its styles,
varying from time to time, sometimes for good reasons, some-
times for none.
     For many years during the early history of the country,
Rum, which is made only from molasses, was practically the
only strong liquor in use, as nearly ail grain in the country was.
consumed as food.
     American (Rye and Bourbon) whisky, the products of
grain, may be said to have corne in style about the time of the
Civil War, although George Washington made some at Mount
Vernon, and there was considérable distillation throughout the
South, its consumption increasing gradually for many years, it
taking the place formerly occupied by Rum as a national bev-
erage. Fifteen or more years ago Scotch whisky began an in-
creasing popularity, and in the same way, although perhaps in
a lesser degree, there lias been during the past two or three
years an increasing demand for fine old Rum.
     Another reason for the lack of growth of the Rum industry
is found in the fact that alcohol for médicinal and manufactur-
ing purposes can be generally more cheaply produced from
grain than from molasses. But many old-fashioned people and
good judges of liquor still adhère to the use of our forefathersr
favorite drink.
     It is évident that the actual production in gallons liaviiig
remained about the same, and the number of distilleries having
decreased, those distilleries now in existence, or some of them,
at least, must be of much larger capacity than those of the early
days. The largest Rum distilleries now in opération are located
with in the Boston Metropolitan district, one of them alone hav-
ing a capacity of more than 1,500,000 gallons per annum. Some
of them, however, still remain practically unchanged from our
grandfathers' days.
     In financial standing and in good réputation of those en-
gaged in it, this industry compares favorably to-day as it did in
its beginning with any other in the country.
                                                    By
            Bottle of                         H. J. FINLAY
                                           Of H. P. Finlay & Co.
                  English Beer                   New York




^^^^^^^XCELLENT in itself as Beer may be,                it   likewise
                     a pedigree to be proud of. Crédit is given
                  lias

       ||       for the  invention of brewing to an ancient king
       jfé^tf   of EgJ'-pt   —
                             Osiris by naine. Be this as it may,
                abmidant records of Beer are still foimd npon
                         —
the Great Pyramid mostly, however, as "empties."
     Both the Greeks and the Ganls had a decided partiality
for Beer, which is mentioned by Socrates B. G. 420, as well as
by other ancient writers. Such facts lead lis to specnlate
whether the brewing of Beer may not be a natural instinct im-
planted within the hiiman hreast,
     Later on, brewers increased and mnltiplied, and became
great ones of the earth and mighty. Their Beer has always
played an important, if nnseen, part in British history. Thns,
for instance, Y\iien England was like to become a Spanish de-
pendency, the va liant Drake declared that lie mnst be snpplied
liberally with Beer, if he was to crash the Armada. He got it,
and he did it !   Xo more, however, need be said to prove the
antiquity and the worth of Malt Liqnor. Like the eqnator,
therefore, Beer is not to be spoken of disrespectfully.
     The use of hops, which impart keeping properties to Beer,
Avas not discovered until the sixteenth centnry, if we are to be-
lieve the couplet   :




            "Hops, Beformation and Beer
             Came into England ail in one year.'-
                                 —
    Since then the three B's Beef, Beer and the Bible have     —
become established articles of faith in Britain.
    The greatest brewing center in England, or, indeed, in the
world, is situated at Bnrton-on-Trent, where Messrs. Bass & Co.
stand conspicnons among an array of comj)etitors. The pros-
perity of Bnrton-on-Trent of late years has been remarkable.
This is owing to the increasing popnlar taste for a lighter bev-
erage than the potent strong Beers of the past génération, and
to the pecnliar snitability of Bnrton water for the production
of delicately-flavored Aies.
     Bnrton-on-Trent lies in a basin of mari and gypsum which
strongly imprégna te the water collée ted in the brewery well s.
The water is, therefore, very "hard," and this, as Ave shall see, is
of great benefit.
       Good water is indispensable to good brewing, bnt abso-
lu telypure water (oxide of hydrogen) is never met Avith in
nature.   Its solvent properties are so great that it dissolves
more or less of most substances Avith Avhieh it cornes in contact.
The smallest trace of organic matter renders it utterly unfit for
breAving purposes; no matter how briglit and sparkling it may
appear to the eye, such water Avili not "keep," and therefore the
Beer whicb miglit be brewed from it would not keep either.
    "Hard" Avater is suitable only for Aie, not for Stout. It is
this simple fact,and not mere caprice, wkich bas singled ont
Dublin as the more appropriate birthplace for Stout.
    "Soft" water extracts more from the malt than is desired
by the breAvers of Aie, Avhile the hard Burton Avater lias less
affinity for the        albuminous ijrinciples contained in the malt.
Much in the same way when peas are boiled in soft Avater they
are reduced to pulp, but if boiled in hard water their outside
skin is toughened, and they retain their individual shape.
    It is frequently supposed that the water used for brewing
at Burton is taken from the Hiver Trent. This, of course, is a
mistake    —   it is   drawn from wells.   The demands made by brew-
ers upon thèse wells of late years have sometimes severely taxed
their resources, and the sijring Avater is now used only for con-
version into Aie.
       But we must not linger over the crystal water, fresh from
its rock depths, for Ave have to visit
                                     the maltings. Thèse great
detached buildings stretch in a long and uniform line as far as
the eye can carry, and they are used exclusively for the purpose
of converting the barley into malt, which must be done ère it is
fit   for breAving.
     The grain best suited to brewing Beer is barley, and much
dépends on the character of the soil that grows it, as Avell as on
the dryness or wetness of the season.
     It is not every kind of barley that will make good malt, and
great is the care and zeal exercised at Burton to obtain the very
choicest and most suitable growths, no matter whether they be
from the United Kingdom or abroad.
     The opération of malting is performed as f oIIoavs The    :




barley is first placed in shallow cisterns, Avhere it is steeped in
Avater, and afterwards spread ont to the depth of a few inches
on large dry in g floors.
     It quickly gets w&rm of its own accord, and under the com-
bined influence of warmth and moisture it soon begins to
sprout. When this lias proceeded a certain length it is dried by
the kiln, which, of course, stops further germination, and,
wherein the original insoluble starch of the grain has, by Na-
turel own magie, been converted into solnble malt-sugar.
     If dried at a low température it is "Pale Malt," from which
Pale Aie is brewed; but if roasted at a greater beat it is par-
tially carbonized, and becomes "Brown Malt," suitable for
brewing Stout.
     This is the only reason for the différence in color between
Aie and Stout.
     The brewer crushes the malt between heavy rollers to break
the husk, and the malt-meal is then thoroughly mixed with
warm water in the mashtun by a ferocious instrument called a
"porcupine." The malt is finally exhausted by a huge over-
grown watering pot, termed a sparger. It has long revolving
arms, and as the water descends in a gentle shower it carries
with it what remains soluble in the malt, and the "grains" only,
corresponding with the tea-leaves in the pot, are left behind.
The resulting liquor, now called "wort," is then strained off
and transferred into coppers, where it is boiled for several
hours with the hops.
     After sufficient boiling the wort is rapidly cooled in refrig-
erators containing long coils of pipes, through which a stream
of cold water continually runs.
     The cooled wort is still not a bit like Beer. Even a tee-
totaler might drink of this particularly nasty and mawkish
fluid if lie could bring himself to do so, for thus far it contains
no alcohol this can be produced only by the agency of fermen-
           ;


tation.
    Fermentation is started by inoculating the wort with pure
yeast.  Yeast is a vegetable organism, consisting of myriads of
microscopic cells or globules, which rapidly multiply in the
"wort" at the expense of certain of its constituents and thèse
                                                       ;


minute cells are endowed with the marvelous power of elab-
orating alcohol, or, in other words, of transforming the dull
and lifeless wort into sparkling Aie.
    The newly-born Pale Aie is then racked into casks and
stored away in vast quantities that certainly look sufficient to
meet any demand, but which rapidly melt away as the thirsty
season cornes on.
     Beer reserved for export bottling is brewed from the
choicest materials. It is, indeed, an altogether superior qual-
ity, and is priced accordingly.
                                                   BY


   T     he Troubles
              of   Absinthe
                                          J. FANNING

                                             " The
                                                      O'REILLY
                                              Associate Editor


                                                New York
                                                         Steward
                                                                   "




                 People on this side of the Atlantic Océan find it
           hard to understand the crnsade tliat bas been waged
           in Europe against the manufacture and sale of Ab-
           sinthe, most likely because, in the United States, the
           article is only consuined in a moderate way, by rea-
           son of its tonic and rejuvenating effect on Systems
that are run down, tired, or that need a wholesome stimulant.
The opposition which arose against the beverage in France and
Switzerland within the past five years is generally regarded as
being résultant from the old trouble of abuse as against rational
use. The countries mentioned have in the past been among the
largest distillers of the tonic, and, strange to say, it is mainly
within their confines that there is any protest of conséquence
against the article, which, beyond doubt, has been "more sinned
against than sinning," on account of much that has been writ-
ten against it in prose and poetry. The pace was set in this
respect by Marie Corelli's highly sensational and wierd romance
entitled "Worinwood." Since that unsavory pièce of literature,
with its fantastic and wildly imaginative pictures of the mental
and physical conditions generally following the use, and, of
course, the abuse, of Absinthe, first saw the light, ail kinds of
writers have toyed with it, and with about the same degree of
iividity and unction that a playwright takes up the subjects of
love or matrimony, whereby to bring forward some newly dis-
covered phase of an old subject. Ail this sort of thing has sure
enough hurt the manufacture, sale and consumption of as hon-
cst and well-meaning a product as was ever distilled.      It sur-
vives much abuse, although many an ink-slinger has proclaimed
its epitaph.  It is no purpose of this writer to either eulogize
or to condemn, but simply to freshen the mind of the reader
concerning an article in the wine and spirit trade that may be
truthfully said to have had a chequered history, and presented
as much opportunity for the use of printers' ink as almost any-
thing on, at least, the list of modem beverages. I say modem,
because I believe the first reliable data we have concerning Ab-
sinthe goes back no further than to the time of the campaigns
following the death of Napoléon 1., when French soldiers came
across the wormwood herb in Algiers ( 1832-47 ) and there and
                                                     ,



then discovered its tonic and aromatic effects, when they much
needed something to restore their shattered health.
     As to the history of the herb wormwood of itself, one
writer, in traducing Absinthe, points out that   it is twice re-

ferred to in the Bevelations o£ St. John, and quotes the folio w-
ing   :



     "And the third angel sonnded his truinpet, and there fell a
great star from the heavens, bnrning like a lamp, and it fell
upon a third part of the rivers and npon the fonntains of
waters. And the name of the star is called Wormwood, and the
third part of the waters became Wormwood, and many men died
of the waters becanse they were made bitter."
     However correct this qnotation inay be, the alleged "revela-
tions" of Miss Corelli embody the worst abuse that has ever
been heaped upon Absinthe. It came into vogue as a fébrifuge
or cure for fever, and in this way by easy stages to Paris, and
there became a popular drink on the Boulevards, where the five
o'clock gossip hour at the cafés came to be known as "the hour
             1

of Absinthe.'   Thereafter the manufacture of the article devel-
oped into an extensive industry in France and Switzerland. It
is classified as a liqueur or aromatized spirit, prepared by
pounding the leaves and ûowering tops of various species of
worniwood with angelica root, sweet flag root, the leaves of
dittany of Crète, star-anise fruit and other aromatics, and mas-
cerating thèse in alcohol. After soaking for about eight days
the compound is distilled, yielding an emerald-colored liquor,
to which a proportion of an essential oil, usually that of anise,
is added.   An American authority includes in his recipe ver-
mouth, small fennel, coriander, angel sweet root, liquorice,
calamns, bitter almonds, small leaves of vermouth, peppermint
leaves, camilles and juniper, and gives from three to four weeks
as the distilling period.
     There are four ways of serving the drink, and possibly
more, but thèse are known best Absinthe Cocktail, Absinthe
                                  :




Frappe, Absinthe a la Parisienne, and Absinthe aux Dieux.
     This brief narrative is x>erhaps interesting at this time, be-
canse the law prohibiting the manufacture of Absinthe, follow-
iug one already existing prohibiting its sale, became effective
in Switzerland last October,     This was voted upon by référ-
endum nearly two years ago. In fact, both the sale and manu-
facture were legislated against at the same time, but the opéra-
tion of the law as regards manufacturing was deferred until the
distillers Avère afforded an opportunit}7 to dispose of their
stocks. The French cantons voted against the prohibition law
in the référendum, but were outvoted by the German cantons,
where little Absinthe was consumed. An item of interest in
connection with the new law is the adjustment of the terras of
compensation which the Fédéral Government desires to make
to the distillers for the losses which its passage and enforcement
involves, and which, by the way, rather points a moral for ému-
lation by those of our States that have wiped out distilleries,
breweries, etc., without any suggestion whatever of compensa-
tion for disturbance.
 r                                               BY CHEVALIER
  y\> Encourage the                           ANDREA SBARBORO
                                               Secy. Italian-Swiss Colony
    American Wine I ndustry                       San Francisco, Cal.




                   Wine lias been a healthy, invigorating, 1ns-
              cions fyeverage, according to the Olcl Testament,
                almost since the conimencement of the world.
                     In every land on earth which was blessed by
                the rays of the sun and with the quality of soil to
                produce grapes for wine making, the grapes were
eagerty crushed by the people by tramping the juice out of
thein, and, after proper fermentation, were served at table and
nsed especially on festive occasions.
      In the times of Pliny wine making had been so perfected
that the Eomans regarded the wine of Italy as the best in the
world.    Horace said "that wine, luscious and pure, was a drink
fit for the gods."   In later years the district of Chianti produced
the choicest wine of Italy.      Many believed that it was prin-
cipally   from the inspiration of wine that the greatest men of
the world obtained their genius.
      In modem times wine has become not only a luxury, but a
necessity as a beverage at table, and is universally nsed by fam-
ilies in every civilized conntry of the world. Wine is nutritious,
as well as refreshing, and the peasant of Italy, with a chnnk of
bread, a pièce of cheese and a flask of wine, can live happily,
perform arduous labors ail day, and retain perfect health.
      Another of the great advantages of the use of wine is that
it is condncive to sobriety.  It is a well-known fact that in every
country of the world where wine is produced in large quanti ties
and used by the mass of the people, drunkenness is almost un-
known.
     It is only practically in the last fifty years that many of
the States of the Union have been discovered to produce wine
grapes in abundance. Good, palatable Aviné is now made in the
States of New York, Virginia, Ohio, Missouri, New Jersey and
other States, but California, on account of its long sunny days
and adapted soil, is known as the "Land of the Vine," and has
been found to produce the Vitae Vinifera, the true wine grape,
to the same perfection as it is grown in France, Italy and the
Ehein. The vines of the much-praised grape grown in the dis-
trict of Chianti, Italy, were transported by the Italian-Swiss
Colony thirty years ago to their large vineyard at Asti, Sonoma
county, California, where they hâve been found to grow to the
same perfection as they did in the niother country, and produce
the identical Chianti wine, which, being properly aged and care-
fully cared for, is admitted to be superior to the imported wine
frorri Italy, and sells readily in the market of New York, in
cases of one dozen flasks, for $2.00 per case higher than the im-
ported article.
      This, therefore, shows that wine can now be prodnced in
the United States of as fine a quality as that produced in any
part of the world. It can also be snpplied to the consumer,
when not hampered by obnoxious license and prohibition régu-
lations, to the mass of the people as cheaply as the wine is sold
in Europe; because, whilst in the old country they have the
advantage of cheaper labor, here, especially in California, wine
is produced in such large quantifies,  and by means of the most
perfect of modem machinery, the land being plowed by horses
and steam plows, instead of being worked by hand labor, as in
Europe, that it actually costs no more for the production here
than it costs in Europe.
     There is no reason why the American people should not
become accustomed to the lise of wine at their meals, just the
same as the people in the wine-drinking countries of Europe,
and, by so doing, introduce a new industry which would give
remunerative employment to thousands of happy families in
vineyards throughout the country, thereby creating new towns
and cities, and adding to the progress and prosperity of the
United States.
     Italy produces, in abnormal years, 1,000,000,000 gallons of
wine per annum, worth §200,000,000. France produces 1,500,-
000,000 gallons, having a ^alue of -$300,000,000.     Now, with
proper inducements, the United States can, and there is no
question but that in tirne it will, produce in its vast territory
just as much wine, and of just as good a. quality, as that which
is now produced by the two principal wine countries of Europe.
     In order to develop the wine industry to its full extent, it
is necessary :
          —
     First To induce the Prohibition people, whose aim is the
removal of drunkenness from our country, to encourage the use
of wine at meals, instead of prohibiting it.
              —
     Second It is necessary that grocers and dealers be per-
mitted to serve their patrons with wine in original packages,
without the payment of a license, just the same as they are per-
mitted to sell tea, collée and chocolaté. They should not charge
exorbitant priées to their patrons, but should sell at a reason-
able advance over the cost. This will materially increase their
sales, and eventually their profits.
     Third   —The restaurant and hôtel keepers should place a
pint bottle of wine before every plate at table, which could be
served without charge, by adding a trifle to the cost of the meal.
This would substitute tea and cofîee, and the wine, when prop-
erly purchased in casks, and bottled on the premises, wonld
cost no more than the tea and coffee.
            —
     Fonrth When patrons ask, as they frequently do, for a
superior quality of wine in bottles, that should be served at a
profit of not over fifty per cent, above the actnal cost, as many
people will not order wine at meals because they are asked to
pay more for a bottle of wine than for the whole meal. Restau-
rant and hôtel keepers will fincl that in a short time the demand
for wine will so increase that the profits will be mnch greater
than when only a small quantity of wine was sold at higher
priées.   If some of the restaurant and hôtel keepers object to
placing wine on the table before each plate, they shonld at least
instrnct their waiters, both maie and female, to présent the
wine list to every gnest and politely ask, "Which wine will
y on hâve?" This is the way that the caterers use their patrons
in Europe, and it is a well-known fact that the selling of wine
by hôtels and restaurants in Europe, although at a small profit,
is their principal source of revenue.
                                                        BY
  JY^ixed Drinks and                           A. E. WUPPERMANN
                                                of J.W. Wuppermann
                Their Ingrédients                   New York City




                  In considering tlie subject of mixed drinks, it
             may not be ont of j)lace to dwell brieliy upon their
             history, as v\ell as upon tlie reasons for their exist-
              ence and their continued popularity. Since time
              immémorial, men have sought to lend an added
              relish to food through seasoning. that is, through
the addition of flavorings of a spicy, aromatic, or piquant, na-
ture. It vas natural, therefore, that the same methods should
have been applied in tlie matter of beverages, as is witnessed by
the highly-flavored punches and other brews of our forefathers.
     A distinction should be dra\yn, however, betveen those
mixed drinks v\iiich are devised purely as thirst quenchers and
Tvhich should be classifîed under the heading of beverages, and
those which are commonly known as appetizers. Among the
former are included such drinks as shandy-gaff and the varions
toddies, rickeys, punches, cobblers, juleps, etc. To some of thèse
beverages it has been songht to communicate a food value, aside
froin that of the stimulant, as in the case of sherry-nip, egg-nogg,
milk-punch, etc., foods having been introduced because of their
value as such, rather than because of any flavor which they
might Impart.
     But there is another class of mixed drinks not less impor-
tant nor less popular than the thirst-quenchers or beverages
just named. This class is popularly known under the name of
api)etizers, in which are comprised ail of the cocktails and other
mixed drinks that are designed particularly to increase the de-
sire for food, that is, to promote the appetite and stimulate the
activity of the digestive organs.
     In medicine, the therapentic value of simple or aromatic
bitters has long been recognized. The introduction of a bitter
élément, highly aromatic in its nature, was due to this vddely
accepted principle among médical men as well as the laity as
to the value of aromatic bitters administered in its most delight-
ful form, viz., the cocktail.
     The bitters act upon the saliva glands as Avell as upon the
sécrétions of the stornach, stimulating both to a greater degree
of activity, their effect being augmented by the aromatics, in-
cluding the alcohol. The French have long recognized the value
of the bitter élément in their celebrated tonic wines, which gen-
erally contain cinchona or other barks of a siinilar nature. Nux
vomica, for instance, a powerful stoinachic, is intensely bitter.
     It is true that an appetizer or cocktail may also be taken
as bracer or to- counteract mental dépression or temporary
melanckolia, the aromatics, which are its most striking constit-
uent^, producing in sach cases a similar effect to that of spirîtss
of ammonia. So true is this assertion that many connoisseurs,
in order to obtain a maximum bracing effect, prefer to use a
highly aromatic bitters, such as Angostura, without the adniix-
ture of any liquor. In thèse cases a pony glass is the proper
quantity.
       It is évident, then, that the use of bitters gave rise to the
introduction of the appetizer, or cocktail, for, without the bitter
ingrédient, thèse drinks would not serve their purpose as appe-
tizers. It is also apparent that in order to i)roduce the desired
effect the bitters should be of a highly aromatic character, al-
though bitters flavpred only with orange peel, which are com-
para tively only slightly aromatic, are also extensively used, but
mainly in conjunction with such highly aromatic bitters as
those of Dr. Siegert, invented at the town of Angostura in the
early part of the last century. Various opinions are held as
to the composition of the original cocktail, al thon gh it is gên-
era 11 y conceded that gin and Angostura preceded sherry and
Angostura as an appetizer, the former reaching its greatest
popularity in America, and the latter in England. The so-called
old-fashioned cocktail, consisting of a loaf of sugar steeped in
a teaspoonful of bitters added to rye whisky, was undoubtedly
antedated, at least in this country, by the old-fashioned appe-
tizer, gin and bitters.
       As it is a Avell-known principle that the addition of sugar
to alcoholic drinks, or even to those which are only slightly al-
coholic, adds materially to their exhilarating effect, so in the
cocktail, if it is desired to heighten the subtlety of the mixture,
the bitter taste should always be modified by the addition of
sweetening. In the saine way the communication of a slightly
acid eharacteristic, as by a couple of dashes of lemon juice, will
improve certain, although by no means ail, appetizers.      It is by
the nice balancing of thèse various éléments that the true artist
may be recognized.
     There is a demand for appetizers that are only slightly
aromatic and exclusively bitter, such as the dry Martini, but the
effect in thèse cases is almost entirely one-sided, the bitter ehar-
acteristic being accentuated to the exclusion somewhat largely
of the aromatic, and completely of the slightly acid and sweet
constituents. The Martini cocktail evidently was the resuit of
an abortive attempt to render the flavor of gin palatable to those
to whoni it is naturally répugnant, tlie délicate flavor of the
Frencli Vermouth being inadéquate to perf orni the task imposed
upon it. An attempt to remedy this defect was made by intro-
ducing an equal proportion of Italian vermouth, thus giving
rise to the Bronx cocktail ; but, generally speaking, French and
Italian vermouths constitute an inadvisable mixture, unless a
highly aromatic bitters is used as a génial arbitrator in the con-
test between the two opposing- ingrédients. The combination of
Italian vermouth with gin is always a happy one, the flavor
of the former easily taking ûrst place in the mixture, but a lib-
éral use of Angostura, as in the popular Barry cocktail, is in-
évitable. The addition of five drops of crème de menthe and a
pièce of twisted lemon peel makes this drink as delicious as any
that can be offered to the most exacting epicure.
     In those mixed drinks which have been classified as simply
beverages or thirst-quenchers, the bitter and aromatic principles
should not be overlooked, for nothing will lend such a delicious
flavor as a highly aromatic ingrédient to Champagne, claret and
rhinewine cups or punches. On the other hand, this constituent
should be sparingly used with the sweet wines of Spain, such
as port, sweet madeira, Lagrima Christa, and others. Angos-
tura, however, may be freely used with claret, to which it lends
a substantial body, such as is found in old burgundy. In hot
drinks, such as hot spiced rum and hot punches, the aromatics
should be not too liberally used, as thèse volatile constituents
are rapidly vaporized by the beat, and the flavor is therebv
temporarily intensified. It is particularly imperative, therefore,
that hot drinks should not be allowed to grow cold or to be re-
heated.
     It is almost superflous to say that ail mixed drinks, whether
hot or cold, should be served as soon as possible after mixing,
for it is necessary that the constituents should not be allowed
to blend. The flavor of each ingrédient should stand ont promi-
nently and play with as much vigor as possible the part assiged
to it. This cannot be the case if the mixture is allowed to stand
so as to become stale, even if bottled.
                                                             BY
      J^omeétic                                    E.   J.   DANIELS
                                                             of

                  Gins                            Baird-Daniels Co.
                                                        New York




                  In tlie last ten years the distillation of Domestic
             Gins has taken very rapid strides in the United
             States, and the gin industry has done much to con-
             vince the American consumer of the fact that a good
             honest prodnct can be manufacturée! here as well as
             in Europe.
      It is not many years ago that it was the average Américains
opinion that everything imported was good, and that everything
domestic was inferior, but, thanks to the progressive spirit of
the Ainerican manufacturer, this erroneous conception is grad-
uai ly disappearing. A multitude of sins were frequently cov-
ered under an imported label, and on this account the firm with
which the writer is associated adoj>ted several years ago the
motto, "It can be only préjudice that prefers foreign inferiority
                           ,,
to domestic superiority.
     A campaign of éducation, with the object in view^ of over-
coming préjudice, is of necessity a hard one. This préjudice has
ofteu been warranted, for the old-fashioned American désire for
making money quickly accounts for domestic products of in-
ferior quality ; however, thèse exceptions merely make the rule.
    The rule is that the American manufacturer^ honesty is
second to none.    This, coupled with unexcelled ingenuity,            lib-
éral business ideas and great progressiveness, créâtes conditions
for the domestic products of which any American can justly be
proud.
     The protective tariff lias benefited domestic industries, and
at the présent time European manufacturers are coming to this
country, building here their plants, employing American labor,
benefiting their locality, enriching this country at large, and
confirming the formerly dîsputed theory that meritorious prod-
ucts could be produced in the new world as well as in the old.
     It is strange, but true, that very few people know anything
about Gin. "Gin is made from Juniper berries," is the gênerai
answer one receives to the question what Gin really is, and
when given the information that Gin is distilled from grain, and
that Juniper berries are only used for flavoring purposes, he is
greatly surprised. "Gin" is a dérivation from the word "Gene-
va," and that is the proper English Avord. "Geneva" is derived
from the Latin word "Juniperus," the Frencli for Gin being
"Jenievre," and the Dutch calling it "Jenever."
     The Hollanders were the first nation to distill Gin. The
industry in that country dates back to the period when the
Dutch were the foreniost seafarers and carried a broom at the
niasthead, symbolical of sweeping the seas. They probably dis-
covered the Jnniper berry along the Mediterranean shores.
     Holland is not a grain-producing conntry, and the varions
grains used for distilling purposes are either of American or
Kussian origin.
     Withont going into nmch scientinc détail as to the distilla-
tion of Holland Gin, it is probably of interest to know that rye
and various cereals (principally Malted Barley) are ground,
and, in accordance with their starchy qualities, are snbjected to
various degrees of heat. The "niash," as the mixture is called,
is allowed to ferment for seventy-two hours, after which it is
distilled. This distillate is called Moutwyn, and is later re-dis-
tilled with Juniper berries.   In the distillation of Old Tom, Dry
and Sloe Gins, a variety of herbs, seeds and roots is used, which
imparts a différent flavor to it thàn that which characterizes
Holland Gin. Thèse gins have become very popular in this
country, and are mostly used for the well known and justly
famous American mixed drinks, as Martini Cocktails, Gin
Kickeys, Gin Fizzes and niany others.
     A question which is very often asked is, "Does Gin improve
with âge?" The answer to this question is in the affirmative,
but, as the improvement can only take place by the Gin coming
in contact with the wood of the cask, the Gin turns yellow, and
is not saleable, as the American consumer (for some unexplain-
able reason ) requires Gin to be perf ectly white. To humor this
whim the distiller uses paraffine wax, which is boiled to a high
degree of heat and poured into the cask.       A    tkin coating of
paraffine is thus formed ou the inner surface of the cask, which
prevents the Gin from coming in contact with the wood, and
consequently retaining its color.
     In concluding this short article on Domestic Gins, let us
rejoice that we are living in a country which is progressing with
amazing rapidity; a country whose Government protects home
industries, and where the workingmen receive wages higher
than those of other nations.     We    equally rejoice for the pa-
triotic American good sensé which has made it possible for the
Domestic Gin industry to have become the important factor it
is to-day.
                                                     BY

  T    he Glass for
            the Beverage
                                               JOS. MESS MER
                                         Secy. Ferd. Messmer Mfg. Co.
                                                St. Louis,   Mo.




®The                  sélection of a proper glassware equipinent
            for a modem club, hôtel or saloon bar is an art ac-
            quired only through wide expérience in and long
            association with the dispensing business.
                 The glassware and supply salesman should,
            himself, be so thoroughly posted and well informed
in this capacity that his advice will be a valuable aid in the
sélection of a fitting equipinent.  In the past, location had con-
sidérable influence as to the quality of glass selected for service,
and, while no longer so gênerai, it is still apparent to the trav-
eler that in the North and West the présence of cut-glass service
ware on the bar is much more prévalent than elsewhere, plain
light ware being still the custom. It is difiicult to find a reason
for this condition, if indeed there is one, but it is equally cer-
tain that the condition is changing. New equipments are almost
invariably selected from Portieux, France, and Val. St. Lam-
bert lines of cut-glass stemware, and from the American lines
of cut-glass tumblers. Thèse lines comprise an amazing variety
of shapes and sizes, supplying a distinct glass for every natural
or prepared beverage.
      The constant trend towards better glassware service, the
deinand for wider varieties and distinctive patterns, has so
specialized the glassware business that the old queensware
house is no longer the source of supply, but is supplanted by the
bar supply house, whose entire energy and capital is devoted to
the interest of the club, cafe and bar trade. This brings the
trades' wants directly to the manufacturer^ plant, and results
in producing new shapes, adéquate sizes and broader and more
extensive varieties.
      When the cooling highball became a popular drink it was
difficult to find two bars that used the same kind of glass in
serving it. Anything from a small taper seltzer glass up to a
beer goblet was used to serve this drink, with the resuit that
little or no individuality was given to it.  In the better class of
cafés, hoAvever, the careful dispenser soon discovered the need
of a low, wide glass, that would accommodate a large-size lump
of ice and sufficient seltzer to niake the drink palatable, with
the resuit that the highball now enjoys the same, if not greater
popularity, than the Americau cocktail. It is this close atten-
tion to the détails and fine points of the dispensing business
that niakes onr bars and cafés so popular with the public.
Shakespeare said, "The rose by any other name would sniell as
sweet;" but wotild the cocktail smell as sweet or taste as good
ont of a tin cnp? It is, indeed, donbtfnl if onr drinking places
would enjoy the popularity they now do, were it not for the
individuality given to each kind of drink when properly served.
     I strongly advise against the nse of decorated glassware
for pnblic service, either etched, engraved or ware decorated in
any other nianner, save the polished cuttings which onr Amer-
ican mannfactnrers put on the tnniblers, and the cnt and pol-
ished steniware, both American and import.         If a bar niakes
any pretense at first-class service, it should have no nse or room
for the common pressed or molded glassware. At its very best,
this ware lacks the crystal clearness of the lead-blown goods,
and the trifling différence in cost certainly does not justify the
sacrifice of the high tone which the clear ware gives to the
service.  Let me repeat, qnality inclnded, "service" gives onr
pnblic drinking places their immense popnlaritv. Usage and
cnstom have fixed the popnlar priées for onr American drinks,
bnt location and license fees regnlate the size of the glasses
nsed. Aside from this, the followiûg are the glasses used almost
nniversally in first-class places For whisky, a clear lead-blown
                                :




tumbler, preferably heavy bottom, with cnttings that do not
obscure the color and sparkle of the liqnor. Side tnmblers for
water of the same pattern, but large enough to admit of a gen-
erous pièce of ice.
     The old-fashioned punch or toddy glass should be in the
same shape and style, but of generous capacity, fully seven
ounces, preferably nine ounces. The same pattern should be
strictly adhered to in ail the tnmblers, as uniformity is a prime
requisite in fitting up the back bar, as well as the service.
     The seltzer glass should be a long taper tumbler, with
heavy bottom.
    For ginger aies, split beers, the différent styles of fizzes,
strainedlemonade, milk punch and Tom Collins, straight
tumblers in their j>roportionate sizes should be used, the bot-
toms of which are not quite so heavy as on the whiskies, water
and seltzer tumblers, but should be what is technically known
among the glassware men as "half shani.'-
     The highball glass, which has met with the most universal
favor, is a low, wide tumbler, with full heavy bottom, almost
identical with the water tumbler for table use, but lead-blown
glass, with a thin edge.
    The stemware line niust necessarily be of a différent pat-
tern in the cutting, but should be uniform throughout.      The
shapes should be identical for the following liquors, differing
only in the size, but not one can be omitted if a strictly first-
class equipment is desired   :   Cordial, three-quarter-ounce glass   ;


Port Wine, two-ounce glass; Burgundy Wine, three-ounce
glass; Claret, four-ounce glass; small goblet, seven ounces; rég-
ulation goblet, ten ounces.     For Champagne, the old-style
saucer-shape bowl is displaced by the hollow-stem round bowl
glass of from four to six-ounce capacity. The bead and sparkle
given to the wine by the hollow stem is obtained in no other
shape, therefore leaves the other style glasses out of considér-
ation.
     The Khine wine glass should be the round bowl shape, but
standing on a somewhat higher stem.
     The Brandy or Pouss Cafe in the three-quarter-ounce size,
and the Sherry in the two-ounce size, should have long stems
and taper bowls, with straight sides, neither flaring or cupped.
     The Cocktail glass has its own particular shape, standing
on a high stem, with a low, wide taper bowl.
     The Hot Whisky is a four and a half-ounce or five-ounce
stem glass, with a flaring or bell-top bowl.
     Bar bottles, bitter bottles, cordial cruets and decanters
should conform in quality and pattern.
     Pages can be written on this subject, and still leave uncov-
ered many other détails that should receive full considération
in the matter of equipment for bar service, but a close observ-
ance of the requirements for a jjroper equipment of glassware
cannot fail to increase the popularity of a liquor dispensary.
A glass for every need should be the constant rule.
                                                         BY
            amous New                               SIDNEY STORY
        F      Orléans Drinks
                                                          of

                                                      New Orléans
                                                       Louisiana




                   Speaking of beverages remincls us of those de-

 £       ^|
          *
              licious décoctions for    which tlie Metropolis of the
              South (New Orléans) is f amous. Tliere are five of
              theni, Avhicli for iiavor and taste equal the nectar of
            § the  gods. They are "The Sazerac Cocktail," "Gin
              Fizz a la Ramos," "High Bail Rofignac," "Absinth
a la Suissesse," "Peychaud Cocktail."
     Were you ever in New Orléans? If so, y ou must on many
occasions found yourself following the crowd which, as it
reaches Royal and Canal, turns off into French town and, hav-
ing made scarcely seventy-iive feet, enters a long, narrow corri-
dor at the end of which is a large room with sand on the floor,
and a long and handsome bar fully seventy-five feet long, before
which stands most of the tiine a line of men, sonietimes two
deep. This is the f amous Sazerac Saloon, known the world over
for the art it possesses in the fabrication of the Sazerac Cock-
tail.
        No beverage of récent years lias drawn to itself more
praise and attention than the "Ramos Gin Fizz" which is sup-
plied to thousands upon thousands every year by the génial and
courtly proprietor of the "Stag," Col. H. C. Ramos. The estab-
lishment is one of the finest of its kind in America and is located
on Gravier Street, opposite the new St. Charles Hôtel. The
glories and réputation of this Ambrosial drink have been sung
the world over. It's the invention of the "Chesterfieldian" Ra-
mos, and men or women who have once pressed the white foam-
ing "Ramos Gin Fizz" to their lips, can never forget it. It is not
an unusual sight in the winter months, and when the Carnival
is on in    New Orléans, to iind this palatial resort of Col. Ramos
packed not only with men but ladies who have just left the fash-
ionable ball-rooms or the French Opéra, and are enjoying, be-
fore returning home, a a Ramos Gin Fizz" that will take them,
after lapsing into the arms of morpheus, into the delightful fan-
tasies of dreamland.
     The afternoon is the fashionable time for the ladies to do
their shopping on Canal Street in New Orléans, and wherever
you find the ladies here you are sure to find the maie gender. In
the most fashionable block of this shopping boulevard is located
 the well-known confectionery establishment of Harry Sckauni-
 burg. Here the gentlemen of leisure will saunter in to refresîi
 themselves with a "Kofignac High Bail," which is exhilarating
 and delicious in taste and flavor. Its inventor was once the
 Mayor of New Orléans, during the Ancien régime, and tradition
 tells us that Monsieur le Maire was the most popular officiai the
 Crescent City ever had      ;   for   on afternoons the Mayor's office
 was always thronged with visitors désirons of both paying their
 respects to the Knightly Kofignac and also enjoying one or two
 of his delicious "Kofignac s.''
     The day's work is over in New Orléans for the average
 business man by five o'clock in the evening, and if you will cross
  Canal Street and enter by way of Bourbon Street the Old Latin
  Quarter you will vmconsciously i'oilow the crowd. Having walk-
  ed some three blocks, } ou will soon notice on the corner of Conti
                         T



  and Bourbon, only one block from the old French Opéra House
   (where every winter for years dating back to ante-bellum days
  the old walls have re-echoed with the music of Grand Opéra),
r an old rusty-looking building of Spanish architecture. Most of
                                   —
  the crowd seems to stop here in fact they do, and, entering an
  old Spanish Courtyard, soon reach the large room Avith its low
  ceiling, playiug fountains, and antique Spanish furniture, with
  openings on an old Spanish courtyard, wliere the fiowers fill the
  air with intoxicating aromas. This is the great rendezvous for
  both sexes who have corne here to partake of that refreshing
  and exhilarating "Suissesse" for which the Old Absinthe House
  lias been famous for over a hunclred years. This establishment
  has been in the hands of one family for a century. The présent
  owner and proprietor of the "Old Absinth House," Don Félix
  Ferrer, is the grandson of the Knightly Spaniard of the same
  name who landed in the Colonies, having corne to the shores of
 the New World to escape the political persécutions of the Old.
     After indulging in one or two of thèse delicious "Suisses-
ses"  diffused by the courteous Senor Félix Ferrer, your appe-
tite has been sharpened like a two-edged sword, and you will
find yourself wiuding your way to the restaurant of "Madame
Antoine" to enjoy a "Pompano au Gratin." Whilst waiting for
the waiter to serve it you will call for a "Peychaud Cocktail,"
another of the delicious drinks of that Capital of Epicures
whose motto is "Life is what we make it. Let us live whilst we
eau." "Vivimus dum Vivamus."
                                                          BY
                                                    J.   STRAUB
                                            Wine Steward "The Blackstone
                                                     Chicago, 111.

                                              Formerly Steward Pendennis
                                                 Club, Louisville, Ky.




                    The first and most important thing to be con-
               sidered in the proper handling and serving of wines,
               etc., is   the building and construction of the wine
               cellar, and as the température plays a big rôle in the
             conditioning of wines, the same should be built un-
             der ground, where an even température of from 56
             to 60 degrees Fahrenheit may be maintained.
     Stone and cernent Aval] s are préférable, as brick walls have
a tendencv to be damp and develop mildew. It is essential to
have your cellar dry and well ventilât ed. ïhe whitewashing or
painting of the walls will pnrify the atmosphère and keep bugs
and other insects from accumulating. Electric lights should be
used, as gaslight quickly changes température. Concrète floors,
slightly slanting from the four walls towards a drain in the
center are best for keeping your cellar in a clean and sanitary
condition. The floor should be tlushed and scrubbed at least
once a week and every time after bottling wine.
     In building jour bins, one-inch strips of wood, extending
from floor to ceiling, should be fastened against the walls about
three feet apart. Wire netting (one-half inch mesh) should be
stretched tight over thèse strips, extending the length of the
wall, thus forniiug the back of the bin and giving free circula-
tion of air.
     Kacks for barrels should be built sufaciently high to make
cleaning under same easy.
     Bottle washing tank (made of cypress wood) with two com-
partments, equipped with overflow waste, hot and cold water
faucets, should be installed.  Also electric bottle washer and
automatic rinser. Bottles should be extremely clean and thor-
oughly dry before being used.
               —
     Binning Sparkling wines, Ehine, Moselle and Sauternes,
should be stored in the lowest bins, with Burgundy and Clarets
next. Above thèse should be the Ports, Sherrys and Madeiras,
while the top bins can be used for Liquers, Gins, Whiskies and
Cognacs.
                            —
     Serving of Wines Champagnes should be chilled before
serving this, however, should be doue slowly, as a great many
        ;


wines are robbed of their life and vinosity by being chilled too
quickly.   As a gênerai ru le, ail Champagne» are served too coid
in the United States.  Rhine wines, Moselle, Sauternes and
White Burgundies sliould be served at a température of abont
forty degrees. The quality of the wines, however, sliould be
taken into considération when being chilled.         Light-bodied
wines, as a rule, have a good deai of acid, which, through having
the wine too cold, becomes very pronounced. Clarets and Bur-
gundies sliould be well rested before attempting to serve theni
and sliould be carefully decanted. Ail improving wines continue
to precipitate their tartar, tannin, etc., forming a crust on the
lower side of the bottle, which, when mixed up with the wine,
renders it bitter and unwholesome. Clarets should be served at
température of room in which meal is served. Burgundy, the
richest of ail natural wines, should be served at 65 degrees. In
the serving of beverages with a dinner, I do not altogether ap-
prove of the largely prevailing habits. By saying this I especial-
ly refer to appetizers. Dry Sherries, Vermouths and Bitters are
unquestionably the best appetite producers.
     With Sea Food, serve either Moselle, Rhine Wine or White
Burgundy.
    With soup, Dry Sherry or Madeira.
    With entrée, a light, but sound, Claret.
    With roast, Burgundy or Château Claret.
    With game, Vintage Champagne.
    With pastry or cheese, Fruity Sherry, Madeira or Port.
    With Demi Tasse, Cognac, Liquer or the celebrated after-
dinner drink, "The Blackstone Comfort."
Whiskev
^   ÎO 8E ASSOtUTEiY PURE ANS   ^
                     As Served at                                                   LORD BALTIMORE COCKTAIL
                                                                                   Fill   mixing glass with shaved ice.
                                                                                   Juice of one-half lime.
                     Louisville, Ky.                                               One jigger Scotch Whisky.
                                                                                   One-half jigger Red Curacoa.

                                                                                   Stir   and strain in cocktail glass.


                   ANANIAS PUNCH
     The Juice of one dozen lemons peeled.
                                                                                          PENDENNIS COCKTAIL
     One jigger Augostura                    Bitters.

     Three quarts of Champagne.                                                    Fill   mixing glass    with   shaved   ice.


     One quart of Apollinaris.                                                     Juice of one-half lime.

     One pint        of    cherries.                                               One-third jigger Hungarian Apricot-
                                                                                 ine.
     Put     ail    the    ingrédients              together      in

punch bowl, mix                     well,    ice,    and serve                     One jigger Dry Gin.

       Champagne          goblets.
                                                                                   Stir   and strain in cocktail glass.
in




                                                                 3\ecif>es for

                                                                       5ttixed
                                                                   TDrtnks

        PENDENNIS MINT JULEP                                                               PENDENNIS EGGNOG
  Use       silver       cup.
                                                                                                 (One Gallon)
     One-half        lump           of     sugar      dissohed
with a little water             ;   fill    cup with shaved                        Take the yellow of one dozen eggs.
ice.                                                                               One pound granulated sugar.
     One     jigger        of       Kentucky           Bourbon                     One teaspoon nutmeg.
Whisky,            mix    well           with     spoon        uutil               One-half pint cream, and beat well
frost       appears on the cup.                                                  together.   Then take one quart Ken-
     Then     take        about          twelve      sprigs       of             tucky Bourbon Whisky, one quart Cog-
fresh       sweet mint,             insert      them      in    the              nac, and one pint Jamaica Rum, beat

ice,   stems downward, so the leaves will                                        ail  together.   Take one quart rich
be above, in the shape of a bouquet,                                             cream and beat until stiff, then add
and serve with straws.                                                           the above mixture very slowly,       whip-
                                                                                 ping until well mixed.      Serve in punch
                                                                                 cups.
            OLD FASHIONED TODDY
     Dissolve        one-half              lump      of    sugar
thoroughly.
     One cube of ice.
     One jigger of whisky.                                                                                   Superintendent.

     Stir   well and serve in                   toddy      glass.
                    As Served at                                                    CHAMPAGNE CUP
                                                                          Prépare    in   crystal   pitcber        in   order
Z£îtion                  Cea^ue (Tlub                                   named.
                   New York, N. Y.                                        One pony Maraschino.
                                                                          One pony Orange Curacoa.
                                                                          One pony Frencb Brandy.
                                                                          The juice of one fresh lime and the

              STERLING EGGNOG                                           rind.

                                                                          One quart Champagne,             cold.
     Be it understood that only the fresh-
                                                                          One    bottle   Club Soda,       cold.
est    and purest eggs, milk and cream,
                                                                          Ice.
and high        class liquors be used.
                                                                          Whole slices (daintily) eut of oranges,
     Prépare       in   order named.
                                                                        pineapples    and    limes,       six   sprigs     of
     Take two large bowls (capaeity four
                                                                        fresh mint, strawberries on top.
gallons) separate 24 eggs; yolks in one
                                                                          The above       recipe   may     be used also
bowl, wbites in anotber.                   Beat the yolks
with long wooden spoon while adding




                                                             3\ecip es for



                                                             ~2)rittks


slowly       one        and     one-half         pounds      of         with the following Cups       :




powdered sugar.                  After      this   is   thor-             Claret Cup, two limes.

oughly smooth, and while stirring rap-                                    Rhine Wine Cup, two limes.
idly,    add slowly        :                                              Moselle   Wine Cup, two limes.
     Two bottles French Brandy.                                           Sauterne Cup, two limes.

     One-half bottle           St.   Croix      Rum.                      Sparkling Cider Cup four limes.

     One-half pint Jamaica                 Rum.
     One-half pint Arrac.
     Two gallons milk.
     Beat    the    whites           of   the   eggs    to   a

snowy        froth,     also     one pint of cream,                                                                Steward.

and add to the bowl with a large pièce
of    ice.

     When served in glasses, grate a little
nutmeg on           top.
    E H.           J   1     Green River
 Taylor, Jr.                  Distg.      Co.
   & Sons                   Owensboro, Ky.
Frankfort, Ky.                   Distillers

   Distillers




                                              lilriil
                                              il


The Large                      The
Distg. Co.                 Freiberg       &
Pittsburg,   Pa.            Workum
                               Co.
  Distillers

                           Cincinnati, O.

                             Distillers
                As Served at                                        As Served at

ttew     y orK^tbletic Club
       New York (Travers Island), N. Y.
                                                                  Calumet Club
                                                                   Chicago, Illinois



            ORANGE BLOSSOM                                   CALUMET COCKTAIL
   One-third French Vermouth.                        Three dashes of Acid Phosphad.
   One-third Italian Vermouth.
                                                     One dash of Angostura Bitters.
   One-third Gordon Gin.
   Plenty of orange juice. Frappe.                   One-half jigger of Bourbon Whisky.
   Serve in whisky glass.                            One-half jigger of Italian Vermouth.
                                                     Stir   and strain     into a cocktail glass.
           THE LA 1)1 ES DREAM
   One-half Maraschino.                                             KLONDIKE
   One-half Cream Yvette.
   Thick Cream on top.                               Pare    an    orange     as        you     would     an
   Serve in sherry glass.                         apple.
                                                     Use the juice of one orange.
       TRAVERS ISLAND COCKTAIL..                     One jigger of whisky.
   One-third French Vermouth.
                                                     Shake and strain in a large glass and
   One-third Plymouth Gin.
   One-third Dubonnet. Frappe.                    flll   with bottle Ginger Aie.
   Serve in cocktail glass.




                                        3\ectpes for



                                           TDrinks

           SAVAGE COCKTAIL                                          FINE TREE
   One-third Italian Vermouth.                       Two-thirds jigger of Tom Gin.
   Two-thirds Rye Whisky.                            One-third jigger of Italian Vermouth.
   Orange peel. Frappe.                              Three    sprigs     of   mint         broken        into
   Serve in cocktail glass.
                                                  small pièces, put in mixing glass with
          DR. BIRCII COCKTAIL
   One-third French Vermouth.                     two or three pièces of                ice,   and shake
   Two thirds Nicholson Gin. Frappe.              long enough to break the mint small
   Serve in cocktail glass.                       enough      to    pass      through             strainer.
   (The two above cocktails are named
                                                  Strain into cocktail glass and leave the
 for   two members of the Club).
                                                  small pièces of mint float ou top.

             THE FAVORITE.                                    GROCE COCKTAIL
   Juice of one lime.                                Two-thirds jigger of Tom Gin.
   Three or four sprigs of mint crushed.
                                                     One-third jigger of Italian Vermouth.
   One drink of Gordon Gin.
   One bottle of imported Ginger Aie.                One-fourth      jigger        of     Grape         Fruit
   Fill with fine ice and serve.                  Juice.
   (Tins rnakes a fine   summer drink.)              One-half glass of shaved                  ice.    Shake
                                                  and strain into cocktail               glass.




                                Steward.                                                              Steward.
 Irish          Whiskey                                                                        Pure Pot Still




                                                                                     "Three
    "Power Y'
                                                                                 Swallow
                   Représentée!                                                                   Agents
             in the United States by
                                                                                     DELANEY & MURPHY
       E. LA MONTAGNE'S         SONS
                                                                              6, 8, 10   and 12 Wabash Ave., Chicago
        15 S. William St.,   New York
                                                                                    R. P. R1THET         & CO., Ltd.
         Représentée! in Canada by                                                             Victoria, B.   G
      MEAGHER BROS. & CO., Ltd.                                                               COLLCUTT & CO.
                                                                                         J.
        14   De Bresoles St., Montréal                                                        Vancouver, B. C.




                   A "Straight" Whiskey Made from Home Grown Malt and Barley
                             Obtainable at ail First-Class Hoteîs, Cafés and Wine Merchants
                                        in every city of the United States and Canada




     The                                                         Perkins
  Geo. T.                                                           &
 Stagg Co.                                                      Manoing
Frankfort,   Ky.                                                   Co.

   Distillers                                                    Distillers




                     ^'DISTILLER- ^
                   As Served at                                           As Served at

^tlanufacturers' (Tlub
           Philadelphia, Pennsylvania                                Brookline, Massachusetts




                                                                    LONE-TREE COCKTAIL
               EASTER TONIC
                                                               One-third Italian Vermouth.
   One-half gallon Milk.
                                                               Two-thirds Old Tom Gin.
   One Pint Brandy.                 (Whisky can be             Shake well in cracked ice and strain.
 used).
   One-fourth Pint Rum.                                        AMERICAN BEAUTY COCKTAIL
   Yolks             eight     eggs,       thoroughly          One-third French Vermouth.
              o£
                                                               Two-thirds Old Tom Gin.
 beaten.
                                                               Juice of half a lime.
   One-half pound pulverized sugar.                            Shake well in cracked ice and strain.
   Mix     well the eggs, sugar and milk.
 then add brandy and rum, nutmeg to                               MAMIE TAYLOR'S SISTER
 taste.     Beat wbites of eggs to perfect                     One good-sized drink of Dry Gin.
                                                               One Lime squeezed and dropped in.
 froth and stir mixture thoroughly.
                                                               One bottle of Ginger Aie.
   For larger quantity, increase in pro-                       One cube of ice.
 portion.                                                      Serve in extra large glass.




                                                  3\ectp es for



                                                    ~2)rmks

                                                                  CLOVER-LEAF COCKTAIL
                     poop nzz
                                                              Juice of a lime.
   Use a large glass.                                         Teaspoonful of Grenadine Syrup.
  Three-fonrths tablespoonful of Sugar.                       White of one egg.
  One egg, both white and yolk.                               One-half jigger of Dry Gin.
   One Wine Glass of Gordon Gin.                              Shake well in cracked ice and strain
                                                              Float a Mint Leaf.
   The Juice of One Lemon.
   Fill    glass   with      fine    ice   and shake
 well.                                                                BULL'S EYE CUP
   Strain in large glass and add Apol-                        One pint of sparkling cider.
 linaris    Water.                                            One pint of Tmported Ginger Aie.
                                                              One glass of brandy.
                                                              Ice and fruit in season.
                                                              Serve in large glass pitcher, with a
                                                             few sprigs of Mint.


                                                                       G RE EN EIZARD
                                             Steward.          One drink of Gin.
                                                               Green Menthe enough    to   color.
                                                               Juice of one Lime.
                                                               One bottle of Club Soda.
                                                               One cube of ice.
                                                               Serve in extra large glass.
                   As Served at                                        As Served at

l£nton"Teaû(U£ (Tlub                                   lïitèianopoUs (Tlub
          Philadelphia, Pennsylvania                                Indianapolis, Indiana



               WHISKY PUNCH.                                    RICHELIEU COCKTAIL
  One portion whisky.
                                                          One-half jigger Dubonnet.
   Juice of one lemon.
   One pony Curacoa.                                      One-half jigger Hennessy         XXX.
   One dash St. Cïuix Ruin.                               One-half jigger Italian Vermouth.
   Sugar.                                                 Two dashes Peychaud.
   Shake well, and serve in small gob-
let with a slice of Orange and Pine-
                                                          Two   pièces     orange peel; squeeze in
apple.                                              shaking cup.
                WHISKY SOUK                               Proceed   in the    same way other cock-
  Same as above, with less sugar.                   tails    are     made,    and place cherry in
                                                    glass.
         DORRINCE COCKTAIL.
 One-third Italian Vermouth.
 Two-thirds Gordon Gin.
 One Slice of Orange Peel.
 Shake well.
 Serve in silver cooler.

     WOODMAN COCKTAIL.                                                                      Manager.
 One-third French Vermouth.
 Two-thirds Gordon Gin.
 Orange Rind and Frappe.
               STAR COCKTAIL,
 One-third Italian Vermouth.
 Two-thirds Apple Jack.



                                        3\ectp es for

     AMERICAN BEA UT Y.
  One-third Italian Vermouth.
  Two-thirds Gordon Gin.
  A little lime juice.
                                             TDrinks
  Dash Maraschino.
         ZEELAND COCKTAIL.                                            As Served at
 One-third Italian Vermouth.
 Two-thirds Jamaica Rum.
 Three dashes Russian Kunnuel.
                                                          Bl)<rElks' Club
    AFTER-DINNER COCKTAIL
                                                                New Orléans, Louisiana
 One-half jigger Apricot Brandy.
 One-half jigger White Menthe.
 One dash Russian Kummel.                                        McGRONEY PUNCH
 Juice of one-half Lime and Frap PC.                   One tablespoonful powdered sugar.
                                                       Two tablespoonfuls Lime Juice.
                 HOT IRON                              One teaspoonful Raspberry Syrnp.
       (Will make two drinks).                         A dash of Kirschwasser.
 Juice of one-half Grape Fruit.                        Half gill of Rye whisky.
  One-half jigger of Bénédictine.                      One tablespoonful of Rum.
 One jigger brandy.                                    Enongh Seltzer to half fill lemon a de
 One jigger Apricot brandy.                        glass.
  Shake well and serve in a small beer                 Stir well     and   fill   glass with cracked
;lass or claret glass.                             ice.
                                                                      RAMAKOOLA
         JACK ROSE COCKTAIL
                                                       One-half Italian Vermouth.
 Juice of One-half Lime.
                                                       One-half French Vermouth.
 One-third Grenadine.
 Two-thirds Apple Brandy.
                                                       Dash Byrrh Bitters.
 Shake well.                                           Fill glass    with cracked ice.
 Serve    in   cocktail   glass.




                                                                                            Steward.
                                   Steward
                 As Served* at                                        As Served at

                                                      Auditorium Hfotel
                                                                     Chicago, Illinois
                New York, N. Y.
                                                                AUDITORIUM GIN FIZ
                                                          Regular Gin Fizz with white of egj
           HAZLETON COCKTAIL,                             Put in sprig of mint when served.
   One-half Nicholson Gin.                                          BRAIN DUSTER
   One-fourth French Vermouth.                            Juice of one-half Lime.
   One-fourth Italian Vermouth.                           Three dashes Peychaud Bitters.
   Frappe with a few sprigs of           fresh            One-half pony Absinthe.
 mint.                                                    One-half pony Anisette.
   Serve   in   cocktail   glass.                         White of egg.
                                                          Frappe.
         GOOD TIMES COCKTAIL,                                   PRINCESS COCKTAIL
                                                          One-third French Vermouth.
   Two-thirds ïom Gin.
                                                          One-third Italian Vermouth.
   Qne-third French Vermouth.
                                                          One-third Absinthe.
   Stir and strain.
                                                          Frappe.
   Serve   in   cocktail   glass.
                                                              AUDITORIUM COCKTAIL
                                                          One-half jigger Dry Gin.
                WALDOKF ROSE                              One-third jigger French Vermouth.
  Half Dry Gin.                                           White of egg.
  One-fourth Apple Whisky.                                Frappe.
  One-fourth Grenadine.
  Juice of one Lime.
  Frappe thoroughly.




                                           3\ecipes for



                                               TDriitks
                CLOVER CLUB                                    AUDITORIUM GIN FIZZ
  Juice of half leinon.                                   Juice one-half lime.
  White of an egg.                                        Small toddy.
  Half teaspoonful powdered sugar.                        Spoonful Grenadine Syrup.
  One drink of Plymouth Gin.                              Three-fourths jigger Apple Brandy.
  One pony Kaspberry Syrup.                               Frappe.
  Frappe thoroughly and serve in elaret                             WILD IRISH ROSE
glass with a sprig of mint on top.                        Use highball glass.
                                                          One-half lime muddled.
           WALDOKF QUEENS                                 Small toddy.
  Two slices pineapple well muddled.                      Spoonful Grenadine Syrup.
  One-half Dry Gin.                                       Three-fourths jigger Irish Whisky.
  One-fourth French Vermouth.                             Lump highball ice.
  One-fourth Italian Vermouth.                            Fill up with seltzer.
  Small pièce of orange, well frapped.
                                                              FOOTE'S SUMMER SOUR
                                                        Juice one-half lemon.
           WALDOKF SPECIAL                              Three-fourths jigger good Bourbon
  Juice of one Lime.                                  whisky.
  One drink Apricotine.                                 One dessert spoonful sugar.
  Frappe thoroughly and serve in cock-                  Frappe,
tail glass.                                             Serve in regular fizz glass, with lump
                                                      highball ice, gnd fill up with still water.
                                                      Gin, brandy, Scotch, or any liquor de-
                                                      sired can be used in this drink, and
                                                      makes a delightful summer beverage.


                                    Manager.
                                                                          Manager Liquor Dep't.
                  As Served at                                       MOON COCKTAIL
                                                                     Distinctly Our Own

     Hfokl belvédère                                        Few dashes of Grenadine Syrup.
                                                            One-sixth of Italian Vermouth.
               Baltimore, Maryland
                                                            One-sixth of French Vermouth.
                                                            Two-thirds Apple Brandy.
                                                            Stirred with spoon or shaken.
                 FROZEX RYE                                 Cocktail glass.
     Juice of half lime.
     Few dashes orange juice.
     Few dashes pineapple syrup.
     Few dashes orange Curacoa.
     Balance rye whisky.                                          BELVIDERE COCKTAIL
Frozen Scotch or gin same as             rye.                      A sood morning bracer.
     Serve in large Champagne glass.            Put         One-third Italian Vermouth.
slice    of orange     and   slice   of pineapple           One-third Gordon Gin.
in    glass,   allowing same to         stick   ont         One-third Irish Whisky.
beyond top of glass. Fill same with                         Few dashes of Absinthe.
fine ice and pour drink over same, with                    Cocktail glass.
cherry on top.         Serve with straw.                   Well frapped.




                                                ~2S>eTCuxe
                                                3\ectpcs for




                 ROYAL SMILE.                                      PERFECT COCKTAIL.
                                                            One-sixth Italian Vermouth.
     Juice of half a lime.
                                                            One-sixth French Vermouth.
     One-fourth Grenadine Syrup.
                                                            Two-thirds Gordon Gin.
     One-fourth Gordon Gin.                                 Well frapped with pièce of orange
     One-half Apple Brandy.                               peel.
     Cocktail glass.                                        Cocktail glass.

                                                                       PICK ME UP
                 CLOVER CLUB                                Juice of whole orange.

     Juice of lime.                                         Jigger of gin.

     Few   dashes of Grenadine Syrup.                       White of an egg.
     One-sixth Italian Vermouth.                            Highball glass.
     One-sixth French Vermouth.                             Well frapped.
     Two-thirds    gin.
  Add white of an egg. Frappe well.
     Dress with three mint leaves on edge
of glass.
     Serve in claret glass.
     In season use raspberries instead of
Grenadine.        Macerate     the    raspberries
with muddler.                                                                       Wine Steward.
                As Served at                                                        SAZERAC COCKTAIL
                                                                         A    famous Southern            cocktail,   which

 St. parles Tfotel                                                    has the biggest call in the market in
                                                                      the South and replaces our Northern
           New Orléans, Louisiana                                     Manhattan.
                                                                        Smash lump of sugar in oïti Jashion
                                                                      cocktail glass.
           ST. CHARLES          COOLER                                  Add three drops Peychaud Bitters.
     This drink    is the most soothing and                              Two drops Angostura.
cold summer        drink, much liked by ev-                              One drink good rye whisky.
erybody who has            tried    it,   and     is   at                Ice and strain to another ice-cold old-
présent making a big hit.                                             fashion       cocktail glass with a          dash of
  Serve like highball in Toin Collins                                 Absinthe       in,   then squeeze     oil   of lemon
glass with ice.                                                       peel.
  Juice of one lemon.
  One drink of gin.
  One-half drink of Grenadine Syrup.
     Add Seltzer to taste.                                            "THE THREE GRACES" COCKTAIL
                                                                         For persons fond of Vermouth or
         ST. CHARLES COCKTAIL                                         Dubonnet, this has the richest flavor and
     Juice of one lime.                                               pleasant aroma, as well as taste, and
     White of one egg.                                                is considered to give an unusually strong

     Three-fifths Gordon Gin.                                         appetite.
  Two-fifths        Grenadine       or    Raspberry                      One-third Dubonnet.
Syrup.                                                                   One-third French Vermouth.
  Frappe and strain to cocktail glass                                    One-third Orange Gin.
and serve with a mint leaf on top.                                       Frappe and strain to cocktail glass.




                                                                 pas for

                                                            ya
                                                                 ittks


           RUSSIAN COCKTAIL                                                           OJUI COCKTAIL
  A     drink which       is   in   the    last    year                                           or
much appreciated in the Northern part                                    SPANISH ABSINTHE COCKTAIL.
of    Europe,     and     is   lately     introduced
                                                                         Ismuch used in New Orléans, and be-
here, where it has proven to be appre-                                longs to the drinks which   made New
ciated by conuoisseurs.
                                                                      Orléans famous. For people who like
  Three-fifths Vodka.
                                                                      absinthe, this        is   very appetizing.
  Two-fifths Ruhinoy (a Itussian cherry
                                                                        One drink Ojui in large glass of ice,
cordial    made of cherry stones).                                    keep on dropping Seltzer in glass, and
  Frappe and strained.                                                stir    with    spoon      until    the   outside   of
     (This drink    is   very strong).                                glass    is    frozen,     and your cocktail is
                                                                      finished.       Then       add a few drops of
           HICKORY COCKTAIL                                           Peychaud         New       Orléans Bitters, and
  Supposed to be originated by old Gen-                               strain to a cocktail glass.
eral Hickory,       and much used           in     New
Orléans.
  One-half French Vermouth.
  One-half Italian Vermouth.
  One teaspoonful Ami Picon.
  Iced and strained to cocktail                   glass,
then squeeze       oil   of a pièce of lemon
                                                                                                         Maitre de HoteL
therein.
                                         —




             As Served at                                                 As Served at

 St. parles Kotel                                             TCotelHaSalU
         New Orléans, Louisiana                                       Chicago, Illinois


                                                                   LA SAL1L1E COCKTAIL,
                 A EEJAH
                                                         The juice of one-sixteenth of an or-
  One    ounce   Wyand      Fockink   Rum              dinary grapefruit.
Punch.                                                   Equal parts of Dry Gin and Italian
  Two ounces old brandy.                               Vermouth.
                                                         Frapped      and    served   in    a   cocktail
  Frappe and serve in small Burton
                                                       glass, using the large white grape in
Aie glass — enough for two.                            place of the cherry or olive.

         A PEQUOT FIZZ                                                LA SALLE FIZZ
  One and one-half ounces Plymouth                       The LaSalle Fizz        is   made from     the
gin.                                               juice of one-half of an orange, one-
  Juice of one-half lime.                          sixth of grapefruit, one tablespoon-
  One teaspoonful of sugar.                        ful of sugar, one jigger of Gin, and
  One-half wkite of one egg.                       prepared and served as other Fizzes.
  Three sprigs of mint.
  Well shaken with coarse ice.
  Strain and fizz with carbonic water.


                                                                                            Wine Steward.




                                       3\ectpe.s for

                                             5tlixe6
                                         T>rmks


         A PEQUOT DE LUXE
                                                        Some «famous ,Aitcestral
  One ounce Old Brown Sherry.
  One ounce old brandy.
  One ounce Jamaica Rum.                                           CHAMPAGNE PUNCH
  Peel of a whole lemon and one slice                       The juice of six lemons and six limes
of inside.                                             strained into one teacupful of granu-
                                                       lated sugar that has been previously
  One egg.
                                                       dissolved in one-half cupful hot water.
  Three ounces sugar.                                    Stir into this one pint of French bran-
  One-fourth pint of cream.                            dy and one small teacupful of Jamaica
  Shaken well with coarse ice.                         rum.
                                                            Turn  into this one gallon of orange
  Served in small stem punch glasses
                                                       ice,   frozen very hard, and four quarts
enough for four glasses.                               of Champagne.
                                                         Top off with thin slices of orange and
                                                       fresh pineapple and large red and black
                                                       cherries.
                                                            When    the   Champagne    is   well mixed
                                                       in with the other ingrédients (breaking
                                                       up the orange ice as little as possible)
                                                       serve in punch cups, dipping a small
                                 Steward.              lump of the orange ice in each cup with
                                                       punch.
Sig.   & Sol. H. Freiberg
        Cincinnati, O.

          Distillers
                                                                                       EGGNOG
 Some JFamous .Ancestral                                            One     dozen      teaspoonfuls         of      granu-
                                                                  lated sugar.
                                                                    Six    cocktail         glassfuls     of     Bourbon
                                                                  whisky.
            KENTUCKY MINT JULEP                                     Five cocktail glassfuls of rum.
                             mint with
     Select twelve full sprigs of
                                                                    Three        cocktail     glassfuls        of     apple
long stems, twist the bunch twice, and                            brandy.
stand them in a julep glass.                                        Three        cocktail     glassfuls     of      French
     Fill   with fînely crushed             ice   and pour
                                                                  brandy.
over        this    one   heaping teaspoonful of
                                                                    One whole nutmeg, grated.
granulated sugar that has been thor-
                                                                    Beat the yolks of fourteen eggs until
oughly dissolved              in    two tablespoonfuls
                                                                  very light.
of hot water.
                                                                    Add sugar, and beat again until thor-
     Stir slightly to chill.
                                                                  oughly dissolved.
     Fill    glass with old           Bourbon whisky,
                                                                    Then add half of the whites that have
pour carefully that ail the whisky may
                                                                  been beaten separately until very                   stiff.
stand on top of the water.
                                                                    Beat mixture            again,    and add,          first
     Let set for about one minute, and stir
                                                                  whisky, then rum, then brandy, a
before drinking.
                                                                  at a time, stirring ail the while.
     Place sprigs of mint on one side of
                                                                    Now stir in nutmeg.
the cup          and drink from the other.                          Add    three pints of fresh                cream,    let




                                                        De Cuxe
                                                        3\ectpes for




OLD FASHIOX KENTUCKY APPLE                                        stand a while        (if    possible over night),
           TODDY
                                                                  and then beat in three pints of whipped
                              or
                                                                  cream that has stood in freezer until
                     APPLE JACK
                                                                  thoroughly chilled.
     Select one dozen apples                and core, but
                                                                    Serve in old-fashion eggnog cups.
do not peel.
     Bake     dry     until        nearly    done,    when
pour on them one pint of scalding water
and        one     heaping     pint     of    granulated                OLI) KENTUCKY TODDY
sugar.                                                              Take a large silver goblet or a large
     Let     cook     doue,        scorching      a   little      toddy glass.
brown on bottom.                                                    Fill   two-thirds full with small lumps
     Poiir ail in a       bowl and add one quart                  of ice (not too small, however).
of    Bourbon whisky and one quart                       of         Add one        dessert spoonful of granu-
apple brandy.                                                     lated    sugar     that     has    been      previously
     One-half nutmeg grated.                                      dissolved in eue teaspoonful of water.
     A small pinch of brown cloves.                                 Stir until there is a cold frost                on cup.
     The grated peel of one orange (using                           Then    iill    with old Bourbon whisky,
only the very yellow part, noue of the                            saving room for one dessert spoonful of
white).                                                           fine   peach brandy.
 Add water to suit taste of the drinker.                            Top    off    with a long, very thin pièce
     Serve hot in small sherbet glasses.                          of orange peel.
   Old                                H.
Grand-Dad                         Rosenthal
  Distg. Co.                       & Sons
Louisville,   Ky.                Cincinnati,    O.

   Distillers                      Distillers




                     ® IkH>



                      ATHEX




W.L.WelIer
                                 Greendale
   & Sons
                                  Distilliig
Louisville,   Ky.
                                      Co.
   Distillers
                         :
                                 Lawrenceburg,
                                      Ind.

                                   Distillers




                                                     B OTT"LED IN   BOND




                    .Bourbon

                        Lit À:
                                                                                               WHISKY DAISY\
       "popular i>riitks
                                                                                         (Use a large bar glass).
                                                                               One-half tablespoonful of sugar.
                                                                               Two or three dashes of lemon juice.
               MARTINI COCKTAIL,
                                                                             One dash of lime juice.
              (l'se        a large bar glass).
                                                                             One squirt of syphon, vichy, or selt-
  Fill       the glass              up with    ice.                        zer; dissolve with the lemon and lime
  Two         or       three        dashes of      gum syrup               juice.
(be careîul in not using too                       much).                      Three-fourths of the ylass             filled   with
  Two or three dashes of bitters.                                          fine-shaved           iee.

  One        (la sh        of   Curaçao or Absinthe,              if           One wine .nlass            of   good whisky.
requir^d.                                                                      Fill the yiass           with shaved ice.
  One-half wjne-glass of Old Tom Gin.                                          One-half pony glass chartreuse (yel-
  Qne-half wine-glass of Vermouth.                                         low).
  Stir       up well with               a   spoon; strain         it              up well with a spoon; then take
                                                                               Stir
ijito    a    fancy cocktail glass; put in a                               a    fancp glass, bave it dresed with
cherry or              a    medium-sized           olive,   if   re-       fruits in season, and strain the mixture
quirèd,        and squeeze a pièce of lemon                                into     it   and     serve.
peei on        toi»,       and serve.




                                                                 3\ectpes for



                                                                   T>rinks

             MANHATTAN COCKTAIL».                                                          SHERRY COBBLEK.
              (Use a large bar glass).
                                                                                         (Use a large bar glass).
  Fill the glass                up with iee.
                                                                               One-half tablespoonful of sugar.
  One or two dashes of gum syrup, very
                                                                               One-half wine-glass of seltzer water,
carefully.
                                                                           dissolve with a spoon.
  One or two dashes of bitters (orange
                                                                               Fill the glass           up with fine crystal ice.
bitters).
                                                                               Then       fill    the    glass up with sherry
  One dash of Curaçao or Absinthe                                 if
                                                                           wine.
required.
                                                                               Stir      well     with spoon       and ornament
  One-half wine glass of whisky.
                                                                           with       grapes        oranges,     piueapples,   ber-
  One-half wine-glass of Vermouth.
                                                                           ries, etc. ;      serve with a straw.
  Stir up well; strain into a fancy cock-
tail    glass          squeeze a pièce of lemon peel
                   ;
                                                                                                 TOM COLLINS
on top, and serve.
                                                                                (Use an extra large bar glass).
                       WHISKY RICKEY                                           Three-fourths tablespoonful of sugar.
        (Use a médium size Fizz glass).                                        Three or four dashes of lime or lemon
  One or two pièces of ice.                                                juice.
  Squeeze the juice of one good-sized                                          Three or four pièces of broken ice.
lime or two small ones.                                                        One wine-glass of Old Tom Gin.
  One wine-glass                     of rye whisky.                          One bottle of plain soda water.
  Fill       up        the      glass       with    club     soda,           Mix well with a spoon, remove the
seltzer, or            vichy    ;   and serve with spoon.                  ice and serve.
                                                                                       WHISKY COCKTAIL
        Jpopular iDrtrtks                                                          (   l se   a large bar glass).
                                                                          Three-fourths           glass   of   fine   shaved
                          *                                             ice.
                                                                          Two or three dashes of gum syrup                 :


                       GIN nzz                                          very careful not to use too much.
            (Use a large bar glass).                                      One and one-half or two dashes of
                                                                        bitters.
    One-half tablespoonful of sugar.
                                                                          One or two dashes of curaçao.
    Three of four dashes of lemon juice.                                  One wine-glass of whisky.
    One-half glass of shaved ice.                                         Stir well with a spoon and strain it
    One wine-glass of Old Tom                        Gin.               into a cocktail glass. putting in a cher-
                                                                        ry or a medium-sized olive, and squeeze
    Stir well    with a spoon, strain                 it    into
                                                                        a pièce of lemon peel on top, and serve
a   large-sized bar glass,           fill   up tbe bal-
ance with vichy or seltzer water, raix
well    and serve.                                                                     SHERRY COCKTAIL,
                                                                                (Use a large bar glass).
                     G IX TODDY                                           Three-fonrths glassful of shaved ice.
             (Use a whisky glass).
                                                                          Two or three dashes of bitters.
                                                                          One dash of maraschino.
    One-half     teaspoonful         of     sugar,          dis-
                                                                          One wine-glass of sherry wine.
solve well in a little water.                                             Stir up well with a spoon, strain into
    One or two lumps of broken                       ice.               a cocktail glass, put a cherry into it.
                                                                        squeeze a pièce of lemon peel on top.
    One wine-glass of gin.
                                                                        and    serve.
    Stir up well and serve.




                                                             3\ectp es for




             SAl TERNE          COBBLER                                                        WHISKY SOUR
             (Use a large bar glass).                                            (Use a large bar glass).
    One-half tablespoonful of sugar.                                      One-half tablespoonful of sugar.
    One-half wine-glass orchard syrup.                                    Three or four dashes of lemon juice.
    One-fourth         wine-glass         of        water         or      One squirt of syphon seltzer water.
                                                                        dissolve the sugar and lemon well with
seltzer; dissolve well          with        a spoon.
                                                                        a spoon.
    Fill   the glass with fine shaved                      ice.
                                                                          Fill the ghiss with ice.
  One and one-half wine-glass Sauterne                                    One wine-glass of whisky.
wine: stir up well. ornament with                                         Stir up well. strain into a sour glass.
                                                                          Place fruit#into it, and serve.
grapes,       oranges,       pineapple,               berries
etc..   in a tasty      manner, and serve with
a   straw.
                                                                                         WHISKY COBBLER
                     GIN RICKEY                                                        (Use a large bar glass).
        (Use a medium-sized Tï/.z glass).                                 One-half tablesponful of sugar.
    One or two         pièces of     ice.                                 One and one-half teaspoonfuls of
    Squeeze the juice of one good-sized                                 pineapple syrup.
                                                                          One-half wine-glass of water or selt-
lime or two          s mail ones.
                                                                        zer; dissolve well with a spoon.
    One wine-glass         of   Tom            or    Holland              Fill up the glass with line ice.
Gin.                                                                      One wine-glass of whisky.
                                                                          Stir up well with a spoon, and orna-
    Fill   up    the    glass    with          club        soda,
                                                                        ment on top with grapes, pineapple.
carbonic        or    seltzer   if     required,             and        and berries in season, and serve with
serve with a spoon.                                                     a straw.
                                                                         GIN COCKTAIL
       jpoputar JDrinks                                            (Use a large bar glass).
                                                         Fill    up tbe glass witb ice.
                                                         Two      or     three dashes of      gum    syrup
               WHISKY FIZZ                             (be careful in not using too much).

          (Use a large bar glass).                       Two or three dashes of bitters.
  Oné-fôurth tablespoonful of sugar.                     One dasb          of   either    curaçao   or   ab-

  Two pr three dashes of lemou juice,                  sinthe.

dissolve witb a squirt of seltzer water.                 One wine-glass of gin.
  Fill tbe   glass witb    ice.                          Stirup well, strain into a fancy cock-
   Une wine-glass of whisky.                           tail    glass putting in a cherry or rnedi-

   Stir up well, strain into a good-sized              um-sized olive, squeeze a pièce of lenion
fizz ulass, fill tbe balance up witb selt-
                                                       peel on top,        and   serve.

zer or vicby water, and serve.

                                                                           GIN JULEP
                                                                   (Use a large bar glass).
               WHISKY FIX                                Three-fourths tablespoonful of sugar.
          (Use a large bar glass).                       Three or four sprigs of mint.
  One-balf tablespoonful of sugar.                       One-half wine-glass of water, dissolve
  Two or three dashes of lime or lemon                 well,     until   the essence of tbe mint          is




                                             3\ectpes for




juice, dissolve well     with a little water.          extracted, theu remove the mint.
  One-half      pony     glass    of   pineapple          Fillup with fine ice.
syrup.                                                   One and one-fourth wine-glass of gin.
  Three-fourths glass of shaved            ice.          Stir up well with a spoon, ornament

  One wine-glass       of whisky.                      it the same as you would mint julep,

  Stir up well     witb a spoon, and orna-             and serve.
ruent    witb grapes, oranges, pineapple,
and berries in a tasteful manner; serve
with a straw.

                                                         OLD STYLE WHISKY SMASH
               HORSES NECK                                (Use an extra large whisky glass).
         (Use a large size Fizz glass).
                                                          One-fourth tablespoonful of sugar.
  Peel a lemon in one long string, place
                                                          One-balf wine-glass of water.
m .uinss so that one end hangs over the                   Three or four sprigs of mint,                  dis-
bead of glass.
                                                       solve well, in order to get the essence
  Two or three dashes of bitters.
                                                       of the mint.
  One wine-glass whisky, rye, Scotch or
                                                          Fill the glass        witb small pièces of ice.
Irish,   as preferred.
                                                          One wine-glass of whisky.
  Three or four lumps of broken            ice.
                                                          Put in fruit in season, mix well place
  Fill    up with syphon, vichy or ginger
                                                        the strainer in the glass and serve.
aie.
  A.&H.
  Sancho*s

 Amontillado
                            m
                           dm
                                                    G. Ceribelli
                                                       & Co.
                                                     New York,
 Don Quixote



   & Co.
                   mm                                   N. Y.

                                                    Importing Agts.




                   m
Importing Agts.

  New York




                   !   .
                           "
                               ALFONSO S H1PCLIT0




                   ÛON             QUIXOTÎ




     Italc-                                              Italo-

  American                                            American
    Stores                                              Stores

   New York                                           New York
 Importing Agts.                                    Importing Agt
Some Fine Old Whisk les
                in   Existence


O
^^^^^ HERE are in existence to-day fifty or more
              barrels of Spring 1893 "G.   W. S. Jones
            Monongahela Pure Rye." This whisky,
            after being tax-paid, was shipped directly
            from the distillery to the Union Storage
Co., at Pittsburg. Each barrel, at the présent time,
contains about twenty gallons.     Proof ranges from
114 to 123.

    There is another lot of one hundred barrels of
whisky made in Daviess County, Kentucky, of
March, 1891, inspection, making it twenty years old
at the présent time. The goods, when tax-paid from
the distillery warehouse,    was shipped    directly to
the Louisville Public Warehouse Co., where       it   has
remained on storage ever since.        The goods are
known as "Thixton's Club Spécial."
   Another fine lot of old whisky, something like
fifty barrels of "Melvale," EasternRye, was made at
Baltimore, Maryland.     The goods are ten years old,
very fine quality, and stored at the distillery free
warehouse, and have never been off the distillery
premises.

   One of the most perfect lots of Old Rye Whisky,
one hundred or more barrels, over ten years old, tax-
paid, is stored in the free warehouse at the Rohr,
McHenry Distilling Co., at Benton, Columbia Coun-
ty, Pennsylvania.   The distillery has been in exist-
ence since 1812, and has made Old-fashioned Rye
Whisky ail thèse years.
                                                   lia            a

                         rôeverages De               Cuxe    iDiractorY

   American Beers                  American Gins                           American Whisky
BUDWEISER                      BURNETT'S                              BRADDOCK PURE RYE
   Anheuser-Busch Brewery         Sir Robert Burnett      & Co.             Jas.   Clark Dist. Co.
   St. Louis, Mo.                 New York, N. Y.                           Cumberland, Md.

FALSTAFF                       LORD LYTTON                            CANE SPRING
   Wm. J. Lemp Brewing Co         Old 76 Dist. Co.                          S.   Grabfelder & Co.
   St.    Louis,   Mo.            Cincinnati, Ohio.                         Louisville, Ky.


FEHR'S F. F. X. L.             OLD COLONY                             CEDAR BROOK
   Frank Fehr Brewing Co.         American Distg. Co.                       J.Kessler & Co.
   Louisville, Ky.                Pékin,    111.                            Chicago, 111.

PABST BLUE RIBBON              OXFORD CLUB DRY                        ECHO SPRING
   Pabst Brewing Co.              Baird-Daniels Co.                         S.   Grabfelder & Co.
   Milwaukee, Wis.                New York, N. Y.                           Louisville, Ky.


STROH'S BOHEMIAN               PEERLESS                               ECONOMY PURE RYE
   Stroh Brewery Co.              The Fleischmann Co.                       Economy Distg. Co.
   Détroit, Mich.                 New York, N. Y.                           Pittsburg, Pa.


                               PEKINIL                                EDGEWOOD
  American Bitters                American Distg. Co.                       Edgewood Distg. Co.
                                  Pékin,    111.                            Cincinnati, Ohio.

ABBOTT'                        WHITE TAVERN DRY                       FERN HILL
   C.    W. Abbott & Co.          The Fleischmann Co.                       H. Rosenthal & Sons.
   Baltimore, Md.                 New York, N. Y.                           Cincinnati, Ohio.

                               WOOLNER'S DRY GIN                      GANNYMEDE "76"
American Champagne                Woolner & Co.                             Sig & Sol H. Freiberg
                                  Peoria,    111.                           Cincinnati, Ohio.

ASTI SPECIAL                                                          GIBSON'S CELEBRATED
                                     American                              RYE AVHISKEY
   Italian-Swiss Colony
   San Francisco, Cal.
                               Liqueurs and Cordials                        Gibson Distg. Co.
                                                                            Philadelphia, Pa.
BLACK TOP                                                             GOLD LEAF PURE RYE
                                  Crème de Menthe, etc.
   Sweet Valley Wine Co.          The Fleischmann Co.                       W. P. Squibb & Co.
   Sandusky, Ôhio.                New York, N. Y.                           Lawrenceburg, Ind.
ELK BRAND                      OLD '76 APRICOT                        GRANDPA'S RYE
   Sweet Valley Wine Co.          Old '76 Dist. Co.                         The Mountain Distg. Co.
   Sandusky, Ôhio.                Cincinnati, Ohio.                         Cincinnati, Ohio.

GOLD SEAL                                                             GREEN RIVER
   Urbana Wine Co.               American Whisky                            Green River Distg. Co.
   Urbana, N. Y.                                                            Owensboro, Ky.
GRAND IMPERIAL                 ASTOR                                  GUCKENHEIMER PURE
   Germania Wine Cellars.         Max.   Selliger & Co.
                                                                        RYE
   Hammondsport, N. Y.            Louisville, Ky.                           A. Guckenheimer & Bros.
                                                                            Pittsburg, Pa.
GREAT WESTERN                  ATHERTON                               HA NO VER
   Pleasant Valley Wine Co.       J. Kessler & Co.                          Standard Dist. Co.
   Rheims, N. Y.                  Chicago, 111.                             Cincinnati, Ohio.

ISLAND QUEEN                   BELLE OF ANDERSON                      HIGHLAND PURE RYE
   Kelley's Island Wine Co.       S. J.   Greenbaum Co.                     Freiberg & Workum Co.
   Kelley's Island, Ohio.         Louisville, Ky.                           Cincinnati, Ohio.

PAUL GARRETT                   BELMONT                                HUDSON WHISKY
   Garrett & Co.                  Max.   Selliger & Co.                     Mayer Bros. Co.          „
   Norfolk, Va.                   Louisville, Ky.                           Cincinnati, Ohio.        ;




WHITE STAR                     BEN FRANKLIN OLD RYE                   I.   W. HARPER
   M. Hommel Wine Co.             Delanev & Murphy.                        Bernheim Dist. Co.
   Sandusky, Ohio.                Chicago,    111.                         Louisville, Ky.
     American Whisky              American Whisky                  American Whisky
JAS. E. PEPPER                   OLD BR1DGEPORT PURE             PUCK
             Pepper Distg. Co.
                                   RYE                                   & A. Freiberg.
     Jas. E.                                                          J.
                                    Hamburger Disty.                  Cincinnati, Ohio.
      Lexington, Ky.
                                    Pittsburg, Pa.

JIM DOUGLAS                      OLD CHARTER                     PURITAN
      J. J. Douglas Co.             Wright & Taylor.                  D. Sachs   & Sons.
      Louisville, Ky.               Louisville, Ky.                   Louisville, Ky.

J.   H.   CUTTER                 OLD FORESTER                    RED TOP
      C. P. Moorman     & Co.       Brown-Forman Co.                  Ferd. Westheimer       & Sons.
      Louisville, Ky.               Louisville, Ky.                   Cincinnati, Ohio.

JOHN POINDEXTER                  OLD GRAND DAD                   RUNNYMEDE PURE RYE
     Wiglesworth Bros. Co.          Old Grand Dad Dist. Co.           J. B. Thompson & Co.
      Poindexter, Ky.               Louisville, Ky.                   Cincinnati, Ohio.

J.   W. M. FIELD                 OLD G. W. TAYLOR                SAM THOMPSON PURE
      J. W. M. Field.
                                                                   RYE
                                    Wiglesworth Bros. Co.
      Owensboro, Ky.                                                  Thompson Dist. Co.
                                    Poindexter, Ky.
                                                                      Pittsburg, Pa.
KENTUCKY DEW                     OLD JOE GIDEON                  SHERWOOD RYE
      Old Kentucky Dist. Co.        Greenbaum Bros.                   Sherwood Dist. Co.
      Louisville, Ky.               Louisville, Ky.                   Baltimore,Md.

KENTUCKY TAYLOR                  OLD JOE PERKINS                 STEWART PURE RYE
      Wright & Taylor.              Perkins & Manning Co.             Stewart Distg. Co.
      Louisville, Ky.               Owensboro, Ky.                    Philadelphia, Pa.

LARGE                            OLD JORDAN                      SUNNY BROOK
      Large Distg. Co.              J. B. Thompson       & Co.        Sunny Brook Disty. Co.
      Pittsburg, Pa.                Cincinnati, O.                    Louisville, Ky.

LYNNDALE                         OLD NO. 7                       SUSQUEHANNA
      Lynndale Dist. Co.            Jack Daniel Dist. Co.             Susquemac Dist. Co.
      Louisville, Ky.               St.   Louis,   Mo.                Cincinnati, Ohio.

MAMMOTH CAYE                     OLD OVERHOLT                    THREE RIVERS
      W. L. Weller & Sons.          A. Overholt & Co.                 H. Weil & Sons.
      Louisville, Ky.               Pittsburg, Pa.
                                                                      Paducah, Ky.

MARK ROGERS                      OLD RICHLAND                    T. J.     MONARCH
                                                                      J. & A. Freiberg.
      Bluthenthal & Bickart.        Jett Bros. Dist. Co.              Cincinanti, Ohio.
      Baltimore, Md.                Carrollton, Ky.
                                                                 TOM MOORE
MEDALLION                        OLD SOWDERS                          Tom Moore Disty.
      Old '76 Distg. Co.            Théo. Sowders,                    Bardstown, Ky.
      Newport, Ky.                  Evansville, Ind.
                                                                 WHITE MILLS
MOORMAN GREEN LABEL              OLD TAYLOR                           White Mills Disty. Co.
     C. P. Moorman      & Co.       E. H. Taylor, Jr. & Sons.         Louisville,     Ky.
     Louisville, Ky.                Frankfort, Ky.
                                                                 W.   T.    &    C.    D.   GUNTER
MOUNT VERNON PURE                OLD UNDERHILL                        SPECIAL BRAND
  RYE                                                                 W. T. & C. D. Gunter.
     Cook & Bernheimer Co.          S.    Jung & Co.
                                    Milwaukee, Wis.                   Evansville, Ind.
     New York, N. Y.
O. F. C.                         PALISADE RYE WHISKY                American Wine
     Geo. T. Stagg Co.              The Fleischmann Co.
     Frankfort, Ky.                 New York, N. Y.              VIRGINIA DARE
                                                                      Garrett & Co.
OLD BLUE RIBBON                  PAUL JONES                           Norfolk, Va.

     Eminence Dist. Co.             Paul Jones & Co.
      Eminence, Ky.                 Louisvile, Ky.                New England Rum                  ,




OLD BOONE                        PEERLESS                        CRYSTAL SPRING
     Thixton, Millett & Co.         Ky. Peerless Distg. Co.           Felton & Son.
     Louisville, Ky.                Henderson, Ky.                    Boston, Mass.
                                   ^àevera^es t>* Cuxe — 3mporte6

                Champagne                                       Burgundies                      Marsala Wines
HEAKl GOLLET                                    CxxAKIjJIi» BliiKJNAKJD                   \^OODHOUSE & co.
     Sonn Bros. Co., Agents.                              Sonn Bros. Co., Agents.               W. A. Taylor & Co.,
     New York.                                            New York.                                  Agents.
                                                                                                New York.
                                                C.        MAREY & LIGERBE-
CHAS. HEIDSIECK                                       LAIR                                FRATELLI PLATAMONE
     Cesare Conti, Agent.                                 E.    La Montagne's Sons,
                                                                                                Sonn Bros. Co., Agents.
     New York.                                                 Agents.
                                                                                                New York.
                                                          New York.
LOUIS ROEDERER                                  A.    MASSON DUBOIS  —                    J.   ROUFF
     E.         La Montagne's Sons,                                                             Cesare Conti, Agent.
      Agents.
                                                          P.    W. Engs & Sons,                 New York.
                                                               Agents.
     New York.                                            New York.
                                                                                                           Port
G. H.       MUMM & CO.                               Hnnaarian
                                                      lullgnl lAlt Vvîn^«
                                                                   Tf JIlCo
     The Mumm Champagne &
                                                     M.
                                                                                          A.    FERREIRA & CO.
      Importation Co., Agents.                                                                  Sam'l Streit & Co., Agents.
     New York.                                  JALICS PINCZE                                   New York.
                                                          Sonn Bros. Co., Agents.
                                                          New York.                       A. A. FERREIRA
     Sparkling Wines                                                                            P.    W. Engs & Sons,
                                                                                                 Agents.
                    German                                 Italian       Wines                  New York.
                                                ANTONIA CINALI & CO.                      H. KOLITZUS
FERMA JOSEF FALCK
                                                          Chianti.                            Sonn Bros Co., Agents.
     Sonn Bros. Co., Agents.                                                                    New York.
     New York.                                            Sonn Bros. Co., Agents.
                                                          New York.
                                                                                          RICHARD HOOPER &
                                                MARQUIS PANCIATICHI                        .    SONS
                      Italian                                                                   Nich. Rath     & Co., Agents.
                                                          Chianti.
                                                                                                New York.
                                                          Cesare Conti, Agent.
F.   CINZANO & CO.                                        New York.                       SANDEMAN & CO.
     L. Gandolti               & Co., Agents.                                                   E.    La Montagne's Sons,
     New York.                                  J. L.      RUFFINO                               Agents.
                                                          Chianti.                              New York.
J.   ROUFF                                                L. Gandolti    & Co., Agents.   SILVA & COSENS
                                                          New York.
     Cesare Conti, Agent.                                                                    W. A. Taylor & Co.,
     New York.                                  J.   ROUFF                                           Agents.
                                                          Capri.
                                                                                                New York.
Clarets and Sauternes
                                                          Cesare Conti, Agent.            VALENCIA PAZ & CO.
                                                          New York.                             Sonn Bros.     Co., Agents.
                                                                                                New York.
AUDINET & BUHAN                                                   Madeira
     Sonn Bros. Co., Agents.                                                                   Spanish Red Wines
     New York.                                  BLANDY BROS. & CO.                        HLJOS BENIGNO LOPEZ
                                                          W. A. Taylor & Co.,
BARTON & GUESTIER                                                                            P. W. Engs & Sons,
                                                               Agents.
                                                                                                     Agents.
     E.         La Montagne's Sons.                       New York.                             New York.
           Agents.
     New York.                                  VVA, ABUDARHAM & FIL-                     JOSE BOULE
                                                      HOS
                                                                                                W. A. Taylor & Co.,
BLANCHY FRERES & CO.                                      Sonn Bros. Co., Agents.                    Agents.
                                                          New York.                             New York.
     Nich. Rath                & Co., Agents.
     New York.                                  LEACOCK & CO.                             CAREY HERMANOS & CO.
                                                          E.   La Montagne's Sons,
F. DUMEZIL                                                     Agents.
                                                                                                Nich. Rath     & Co., Agents.
                                                          New York.                             New York.
     Cusenier Co., Agents.
     J.   \ C   W   I Ul J\.                                                              ROXSOMS & CO
                                                                                                Sam'l Streit & Co., Agents.
                                                                   Malaga                       New York.
ESCHENAUER & CO.
     P.         W. Engs & Sons,                 PP7JRY BROS.                              J.   ESCANDELL FERRER
      Agents.                                             Cesare Conti, Agent.                  Sonn Bros. Co., Agents.
     New York.                                            New York.                             New York.
  Anheuser-Busch
Brewing Association
     St.   Louis

      Brewers
                         tÔevcrages ~ï>e Cuxe — Hmporteè

               Sherry                                  Brandy                                          Gin    — British
                                      LDE. GUINEFOLLAUD                                      BOLD & CO.
                                              Cognac.                                             Sam'l Streit & Co., Agents.
      Sonn Bros. Co., Agents.                 Sam'l Streit & Co., Agents.
      New York.                               New York.                                         New York.
                                      RIVIERE GARDRAT & CO.                                  SIR ROBT. BURNETT &
GOXZALES BYASS & CO.                                                                              CO.
      W. A. Taylor & Co.,                     Cognac.                                             P.   W. Engs & Sons,
           Agents.                            Sonn Bros. Co., Agents.                              Agents.
      New York.                          New York.                                                New York.
                                      JULES ROBIN & CO.                                      GORDON & CO.
D. G. GORDON 1795
                                              Cognac.                                             E.   La Montagne's Sons,
      P. W. Engs & Sons,                      E. La Montagne's Sons,
           Agents.                                                                                 Agents.
                                                Agents.                                           New York.
      New York.                               New York.
                                                                                             RATHBONE & CO.
SxlNDEMA^, BUCK & CO.                 IX V f U 1 Vj 1 1, \M l 1 I J IJ Di ±   ce ^ vJ.
                                                                                                  Nich. Rath     & Co., Agents.
      E.    La Montagne's Sons,               W. A. Taylor & Co.,                                 New York.
           Agents.                              Agents.
      New York.                               New York.                                      CHAS. TANQUERAY & CO.
J.   V. PIURY & CO.                                                                             W. A. Taylor & Co.,
                                          Greek Cognac and                                             Agents.
      Ccsare Conti, Agent.                                                                        New York.
      New York.                                          Wine
                                                                                             AVM. WHITELEY & CO.
A.   & H. SANCHO                      ACHAIA                                                     Cook & Bernheimer Co.,
      Sam'l Streit & Co., Agents.             Sonn Bros. Co., Agents.                                  Agents.
      New York.                               New York.                                           New York.

     Rhine and Moselle                 Extract of Tamarind                                                   Sloe Gin
                                                                                             GORDON & CO.
GEORGE AXDERSON                       CARLO ERBA                                                  E.    La Montagne's Sons,
      P. \Y.    Engs & Sons,                  L. Gandolfi        & Co., Agents.                        Agents.
           Agents.                            New York.                                           New York.
      New York.
FIRMA JOSEE FALCK                                                                                  Gin       — Holland
                                              Italian           Vermouth
      Sonn Bros,     Co., Agents.
                                                                                             BALL & DUNLOP
      New York.
                                      ERATELLI BRANCA                                             Nich. Rath     & Co., Agents.
KOCH, LAUTEREN & CO.                                                                              New York.
                                              L. Gandolfi        & Co., Agents.
      E.    La Montagne's Sons,               New York.                                      BLANKENHEIM & NOLET
           Agents.                                                                                Sonn Bros. Co., Agents.
                                        1 T>rrT\TT
                                      MArtlllM
                                      "%/f"           T>ACCT
                                                          t>.
                                                   ci lvUÎ5hl                                     New York.
                                           W. A. Taylor & Co.,
                                                Agents.                                      CABINET GIN
               Brandy                         New York.                                           The Cook & Bernheimer
                                                                                                       Co., Agents.
                                      TORO                                                        New York.
M. BOITARD, COGNAC                            Italo-American Stores, Inc.
      Nich. Rat h    & Co., Agents.             Agents.                                      HULSTKAMP
      New York.                               New York.
                                                                                                  Emil Tirgrath, Agent.
ALBERT DUBOIS & CO.                   VANZETTI, CAPRIOLI                                 &        Hoboken, N. J.
                                         AIRALDI
      Cognac.                                                                                A.   HOUTMAN & CO.
      L. Gandolfi    & Co., Agents.           New York.                                           Sam'l Streit & Co., Agents.
      New York.                                                                                   New York.
A.    DUPUY & CO.                       French Vermouth                                      W. MAINGAY & CO.
      Cognac.                         MATOLY, BELL & CIE                                          E.    La Montagne's Sons,
      P. \V.   Engs & Sons,
           Agents.                            Sonn Bros.          Co., Agents.
                                         New York.                                                New York.
                                                                                                         r


      New York.
                                      NUGUE, RICHARD & CO.                                   SAVAN GIN
FRATELLI BRAIVCA                              P. \V.     Engs & Sons,                             W. A. Taylor & Co.,
      L. Gandolri    & Co., Agents.            Agents.                                                 Agents.
      New York.                               New York.                                           New York.
Frank Fehr Brewing
                                                                                                                                            1




                          ^Ôevera^s De Cuxe—3ntporte6

      Scotch Whisky                         Canadian Whisky                           Liqueurs and Cordials

BERNARD & CO.                          WISER'S CANADIAN                               FLLI.       MANCABELLI
     Sam'l Streit & Co., Agents.
                                              WHISKY                                      Anesone Triduo.
     New York.                                 Wm. G. Moehring & Co,                      L. Gandolfi & Co, Agents.
                                                     Agents.                              New York.
ROBERT             CRAWFORD &                  New York.
                                                                                      F. AV.     MANEGOLD
     CO.
      Sam'l Streit & Co., Agents.                                                         Getreide-Kummel.
                                       Liqueurs and Cordials                              Sonn Bros. Co, Agents.
      New York.
                                                                                          New York.
GOLF CLUB                              ANGOSTURA BITTERS
PIBROCH                                        J.    W. Wupperman, Agent.             NU YENS & CO.
     W. A. Taylor & Co.,                       New York.                                  Apricot Brandy.
      Agents.                                                                             P. W. Engs & Sons,
     New York.                         APRICOT BRANDY                                       Agents.
CRAIGELLACHE - GLE N -                         Collier & Co.                              New York.
                                               W. A. Taylor & Co,
     LIVET            DISTILLERY                     Agents.                          NU YENS & CO.
     CO.                                       New York.                                  Cordials.
     P.     W. Engs & Sons,                                                               P.     W. Engs & Sons,
      Agents.                          ARCHAMBEAUD FRERES                                  Agents.
     New York.                                 Cordials.                                  New York.
ALEX. FERGUSON & CO.                           Sonn Bros.           Co, Agents.
     Sonn Bros. Co., Agents.                   New York.                              PAGE & SANDEMAN
     New York.                                                                            À
                                                                                          ii. -n
                                                                                                 1*
                                                                                                        Ur» f   Rrcinmr
                                                                                                                UldUKly.
                                       FLLI. BRANCA & CO.                                     Ll 1 1I r*
                                                                                                      L,    l

                                                                                          E.      La Montagne's Sons,
JAMES MONROE & SON                             Fernet-Branca Bitters.                          Agents.
     The Cook & Bernheimer
                                               L. Gandolfi           & Co, Agents.        New York.
           Co., Agents.
                                          New York.
     New York.                         CATZ HOLLAND BITTERS                           AUGUST SCHWARTZ
                                                                                          Kornschnapps.
J.   & G. STEWART                              Emil Tirgrath, Agent.                      Sonn Bros. Co, Agents.
                                               Hoboken, N. J.                             New York.
     Win. G. Moehring & Co.,
           Agents.                     E.      CUSENIER FILS AINE
     New York.                                & CO.                                   CHAS. TANQUERAY & CO.
                                                                                          WltlllgC          Vc
                                                                                           lt"1 110"A JDlLLClo.  1 "1" 1"
                                               Cordials.                                  (



WM. WILLIAMS & SONS                            Cusenier Co, Agents.                       W. A. Taylor & Co,
     E.    La Montagne's Sons,                 New York.                                        Agents.
                                                                                          New York.
           Agents.                     ERVEN LUCAS BOLS
     New York.
                                                Durch Cordials.                       VINO CHINATO
JAMES WATSON & CO.                              E. La Montagne's Sons,                    Italo-American Stores, Inc.
                                                     Agents.                                Agents.
     Nich. Rath       & Co., Agents.            New York.
     New York.                                                                            New York.
                                       Il L1 1 > I > i"i   riTjT\T \ TDTC3T I.1 1 >

                                               G. Cerib.elli         & Co, Agents.
                                                                                      XAVIER FISCHLIN FILS
           Irish     Whisky                     New York.                                 Kirsch and Gentiane.
                                                                                          L. Gandolfi& Co, Agents.
                                       GILKA BERLINER GET-                                New York.
CORK DISTILLERIES CO.                    REIDE KUMMEL
     Ltd.                                 Wm. G. Moehring & Co,
     Nich. Rath       & Co., Agents.                 Agents.                                                    Rum
      New York.                                 New York.
                                       A.     HUBER                                   CROAVN, LONDON DOCK
JOHN JAMESON & SON
                                                Kirsch and Zwetschenwas-                  Jamaica.
     W. A. Taylor & Co,                              ser.                                 Sam'l Streit & Co, Agents.
      Agents.
                                                Sonn Bros. Co, Agents.                    New York.
     New York.                            New York.
                                                                                      ALFRED LAMB & SON
KINAHAN & CO.                          JULES PERNOD                                       Nich. Rath                        & Co, Agents.
      P.    W. Engs & Sons,                    Absinthe and Kirschenwas-                  New York.
           Agents.                                   ser.
     New York.                                  P.    W. Engs & Sons,                 MAGNUM BRAND
                                                 Agents.                                  W. A. Taylor & Co,
SIR JOHN POWER & SON,                           New York.                                      Agents.
     Ltd.
                                                                                          New York.
      E.    La Montagne's Sons,        P. A. LARSEN
       Agents.                                  Calorie Punch.                        H' Y WHITE & CO.
      New York.                                 P.    W. Engs & Sons,                     E.      La Montagne's Sons.
      Delaney & Murphy, Agents                   Agents.                                   Agents.
     Chicago.                                   New York.                                 New York.
Pabst Brewing Co.

  Milwaukee, Wis.

      Brewers
UN   28   191*
L1BRARY OF CONGRESS




  0 014 755 888 0   •
