                  ,,

       ~




    C
    Y-£ ~~J-- -



1
'
'
·   ~
                             /




~   -- -
      ...... ....._ ,,____
THE SQ_UIRE'S
RECIPES
    /




•
 THE Sfj(,UIRE'S
  RECIPES
BEING    A    REPRINT    OF   AN
Ooo     LITTLE    VoLUME      As
DONE    BY   KENDALL    BANNING




             CHICAGO
BROTHERS OF THE          BooK
              1912
   C OPYRIGHT 1912

       BY THE
Bn oTHERS   or THE B oo K
          EXPLANATION
DURING a recent Christmas season . the
       friends of Kendall Banning received an
 odd little volume dated r784, apparently worn
 with age, and entitled "The Squire's Recipes. ~·
 In this musty hook were printed, in quaint type;
 and in the picturesque language of the Revolu-
 tionary period, a dozen recipes far drinks, ranging
from the old-fashioned cherry bounce to alluring
 wassails, swizz/es, and the wicked 'pirate tipple.'
 Each recipe was preceded hy a little story ofhow the
 doughty old New England squire, Calvin Banning,
had originated the concoction. Tuchd away in
the fly leaves was a little note from Kendall
 Banning, great-grandson ofthe old Squire Calvin,
to the effect that these hooks had been discovered
in a moth-eaten hair-trunk in grandmother's
attic in Connecticut, and had been hound and
distributed to a few discerning comrades.
            The book attracted attention at once. Li-
      braries sent in requests far it. Newspapers printed
      articles about the 'find'; one staid sheet published
      extractsfrom it that flooded the qffice with protests
     from prohibitionists from all over New England.
      An elderly relative wrote confidentially to Mr
      Banning that she had to confess to a sneaking
      regard far spirituous liquors, adding guilelessly,
      "You doubtless know that granijather was ex-
      communicated from the church because of his
     fondness far them." No; Mr Banning did not
      know. So, to save grandfather's reputation, Mr
       Banning had to admit that the book was a hoax.
       He had written it himsel:f; printed it from old,
       battered type on paper that he had stained with
     . coffee, and trampled upon to give semblance of
       age. With such minute attention to detail had
       the task been done' that the book was taken at its
..    face value by everyone but the expert .
     Only one hundred andfifty copies were pri11ted,
and the situatio11 was further complicated becaus~
half of the edition bore the name of Squire
 Hoggson, great-granclfather of Noble Foster
 Hoggson, who supplied half of the recipes in the
hook, and who shared equally in the hoax.
      Except for the binding, which was designed
for this edition by the writer of these lines, this
 hook presents a faithful reproduction ofth: original,
 even to the carefully planned crudities resulting
from the use of much worn type.
                        Laurence C. Woodworth

     December, I9I2
The Squire's Recipes


                    ADDENDA
    THE writer of the _'explanation' auepted Mr
         Banning' s statement that the original of this
   reprint was a hoax. Sitlce the book went to press,
   howwer, several of Mr Ba1111i11g' s friends have
   writ/en in vigourous protest, mai11taini11g that the
   hoax rests i11 M r Banning' s contmtio11, and not
   itJ the book itself, which they assert was a genuine
   pro/uct qf the_year r784. 011e friend insiw that
   he was with Mr Ba1111i11g when the ori~inal 'find'
   runs made in the Co1111ecticut a/lie.
        T.his writer is not concerned i11 this good-natured
   co11tror1ersy, holdi11g that tbe -book is equally in-
   teresting whether viewed 01 11 production of r784 or
   I9I I.     The reader may take his choice!
                                              L. C. W.


       Chicago, December r6, r9r2
        THE SQUIRE'S
      RECIPES
In Which. are Defcribed the Methods by
Which CALVIN · BANNING, Efguirt,
Compounded the Twelve moft Famous
Toddies that Diftinguifhed his Hofpitality ..



              HORACE;
Spes ddnare n(}'ZJas largus amarague, Curar-
             um duere e.fficax.
        SUDBURY
Printed by ROGER BUCK and
        fold at his lhop in Cornhill
                   1784 ,. __
                   PREFACE

      T      HESE recipes are colletl:ed at the
              inftance of the numerous friends of
              Calvin Banning, Efquire, fometimes
      known as Old Squire Banning, of whofe
      hofpitality they have partaken at his home-
      ftead, Fairfield Manor, fituate at the crofs-
      roads of Pleafant Valley. For many years
      the Squire has devifed both indoor and out-
      door games and recreation for his friends
      and neighbours, and he has, in confequence,
      aB:ed as hoft on numerous occafions where
      his toddies and other liquid refrelhments
      have been potent faB:ors in the courfe of
...   entertainment. To thofe who have partici-
      pated in the fports on his eftate in Cummer,
      or who have gathered about his hearth dur-
      ing the winter evenings, thefe recipes of his
      moil: famous beverages will be welcomed
      reminders of paffed delights; to thofe who
      have yet to tafte the pleafures of his hofpi-
      tality, promifcs of delights yet to come.
                                     A MORNING
  A MORNING DRAUGHT

B    y a curious circumftance, the Squire's
        famous hot weather refrelher is
        affociated with an hiftoric epifode
in our late war with Great Britain, in
which it converted a defeat into a victory for
American arms. On September 15, 1777,
General Howe landed a Britilh force near
Murray Hill and routed two brigades of
troops, thereby cutting off the retreat of
General Putnam and his 4,000 men in the
iouth. Before beginning the advance, the
Britilh ftaff refted near the farmfi:ead of
Mrs. Lindley Murray. Knowing the eaCy
temper of the Britifh commander, that lady,
with the help of the patriotic Squire, invited
him and his officers to ·luncheon. A halt
was ordered, and while the guefts were
gracefully entertained, the Squire mixed a
beverage of Cuch alluring qualities as to
beguile the officers for three hours, during
which time General Putnam efcaped.
                                        TH.E
       THE LIME JA. CK

T      HIS beverage fhould be ferved in
          large, thin beakers, which ihould
          firft be filled to the top with chipped
ice. On top of the ice in each beaker, pour
two ponies (one jigger) of old-fafhioned
apple jack, the juice of one lime and a
{poonfull of white fugar. Mix the ingredi-
ents well, fill the beaker with water and
{crve· with fhaws, through which the potion
lhould be fipped flowly.




          )
                                   A STIRRUP
          A   STIRRUP CUP

   To        (peed .the parting gueft is ever the.
            privilege, as well as the duty of the
            faithful hoft. In order to fullfill this
   funtl:ion in a proper manner, the Squire has
   for many years obferved the ancient cuftom
   of offering a ftirrup cup to each departing
- vifitor, whether he be ahorfe or afoot. That
   this cup might compare, fo far as may be, to
   that Cerved for Cuch ceremonies in the High.:.
  lands of Scotland, the Squire has compound-
  ed the liquor after the true recipe of the
  houfe of Dun-Donald, on whofe eftate the
  Squire was at one time royally entertained;
        Thus has Fairfield Manor ferved to
  the willing gueft the felf-fame beverage
  that has ftirred _for generations the blood
  of countleCs travellers; brave gentleman of
  arms or poft boy; and has lent ftrength
  and cou·r age to them upon letting forth
  upon their journeys.

                                            THE
~-~~-   ---- --



     THE SCOTTISH MEAD

   F    IRST, pour a gallon of boiling water
          over four pounds of honey. Set it
          to boil and lkim it thoroughly. Add
  a quarter of a pound of heft hops and again
  boil for ten minutes. Then allow it to cool
  in a clean wooden tub.
        When the concotl:ion is nearly cool,
  add a {mall quantity of yeaft, which lhould
  be fpread on a fiice of toafted bread. Allow
  this to ftand in a warm room until the
  fermentation is finifhed. Then place it in
  a fmall cafk and bung it tight, leaving a peg
  hole open for a few days. After pegging,
  allow the mead to ftand for nine months.
  Then bottle it and ftore it fafely within
  eafy accefs, ready for ufe.




                            AN AFTER.NOON
 AN AFTERNOON HEALTH

T       HIS old-fafhioned beverag~ has been
           Cerved for - the entertainment of
           afternoon callers for fo many years
  by the Squire and by his father, John,
  before him, that neither memory nor
  writings !how whence the potion came nor
  the circumfl:ances under which it was con-
  ceived. Suffice that it has been a factor in
  the hofpitality of Fairfield Manor for thefe
  many years, during which time it has been
  gracioufly {erved and ~s gratefully partaken
  of by many kores of guefl:s. On many
. momentous occafions the happinefs of thofe
  who had but jufl: made their advent into
  this mundane exiftence has been pledged in
  this whole!ome draught, and the health and
  profperity of friends and neighbours have
  been quaffed therein to Cuch number that
  indeed the hoft of aches and miferies muft
  fain be driven from Pleafa'nt Valley for all
  time, as, God willing, happily they have.
                                        T1nr
   THE CHERRY .BOUNCE

To        one quart . of wild black cherries,
         add one gallon of good whifkey,
         firft broiling the cherries, lo as to
 break the ftones. Then·!hell a handfull of
.almonds and add to them a half tumbler of
 white {ugar, a quarter of a {poonfull of
 nutmeg, a quarter of a {poonfull of cloves
 aµd a half· {poonfull of cinnar:non, all of
 which lhould be bruifed together in an
earthen or metal pot. Let the compound
ftand a fortnight, and then draw off the
liquid. Finally, add a half gallon of bcft
brandy to it and prelerve it in air-tight
bottles, from which it lbould be ferved in
nip glatres.




                                 (          -
                                 A FllllSIDE'
    A. FIRESIDE NUGGIN

To         thole who have taken part in the
          animated dilcuffions before the
          winter flres of blazini logs following
the return from Come of the Squire's famous
coon hunts, his "Tom and Jerry" needs
no introduB:ion. For £o many years has
this companionable anc;l warming toddy
been affociated with the more intimate
ho!pitality of the Squire that it has come
to be regarded as almoft a part of the winter '
hearth idelf. The Squire learned the Cecret
of this potion from "old Tom" himfclf,
who, with his,brothcr Jerry, firft dilcovercd
its allurements, and gave it to pofterity
under their combined names, and on many
inftances•has it been laid to have voided off
the ills to which ffefh is heir. As a hot and
bracing ftimulant in cold weather, this
beverage has been truly laid to want no
tithe of chan~e.                             · ·-
                                          THt
   .THE TOM AND JERRY

T       HIS lufcious potion requires foe eggs,
           which fhould be duly .mixed with
           eight fpoopfulls of white {ugar
and well beaten. Next, add th~reto four
jiggers of Jamaica rum, an equal quantity
of the heft brandy and one and one-hali
pints of boiling water. Then Cerve it while
ftill hot in earthenware mugs. On the top,
before ferving, fhould be diftributed the
gratings of a nutmeg. This quantity fhould
be lufficient for the ordinary needs of fix
people.




                               A COCKTAIL
          A COCKT:ll.IL

B    y this curious name the Squire has
          defignated a mofr delicious drink,
          the compofition of which has long
been held fecret. That it is of romantic
origi_n , the Squire admits, inafmuch as he
{ecured the recipe ftraight from {weet
Miftrels Peggy Van Eyck, of the inn called
the Cock•s Tail Tavern, at Yonkers, for
reafons hereinafter defcribed. As· this fair
maid was once mixing this potion ·for her
accepted lover, Mafter Appleton, in order
that he might face with proper fpirit the ire
of her father, her favorite game cock, as if
in celebration of the momentous event, 1
crowed luftily and £hook himfelf so vigor]
oufly that one of his royal tail feathers
floated gently towards his miftrefs. Seizing'
the feather, fhe ,deftly ftirred the glafs'
contents with it, and thereupon·proclaimed
the drink a Cocktail, by which term it has.
An~e been defignated.
                                       THE
         THE PRIMROSE

 T     AKE a tall beaker and with a fpoon,
          crulh therein fome frelh mint
          leaves. Then fill the beaker with
cracked ice, and for each portion, add two
ponies (one:; jigger) of dry gin, and one
pony of lime {yrup, which lhould be made
after the manner hereinafter defcribed. Stir
thefe ingredients well, and tHrough a
ftrainer, pour the mixture into f~an glafs
tumblers. Squeeze over each portion, a bit
of orang~ pee} and add a {pcig of mint.


LI M E SY Ru P: Mix the rind and juice
of eighteen limes with one ounce of tartaric
acid and three pounds of white fugar.
Diffolve all in a pan over the fire ( firft add·
ing a quart of water) and h~at till it near
boils. Then ftrain, cool and bottle the
refultant fyrup.                              "
                              AN APPETIZER
        AN APPETIZER

 D       URING the winter .of 17~4, while
           the Squire was journeymg from
           Bofton Town to Dartmouth Col-
  lege on a matter not wholly unconnell:ed
  with bufinefs, he tarried for the night at the
  Tally-Ho Inn. Before the hearth in the
  tap room he fell in with a gentleman who
  had but juft returned from Spain, bringing
· with him, from an ancient monaftary, a '
  fweet, aromatic liqueur; which the monks
  made from divers bloffoms and herbs after a
  Cecret proce{s. With the connivance of the
  Squire, who mixed this {weet with other
  liquors, a pleafing quaff was obtained, hut
  of Cuch paffing potency that all who partook
  were straightway much in{pired. U Pon
  learning that his companion was of the
  houfehold of the Earl of Dartmouth, and
  would journey by the fame coach on the -
  morrow, the Squire forthwith chrifi:ened
  the concoction the Dartmouth Drachm.
                                        Tttp;
 .T _BEDA.RTMOUTH D.RACHM

T ·
       O one jigger of a lweet Italian.
         vermouth, add an equal quantity
         of fweet gin, preferably the Old
Toin gin. Next, flavour with a flight
portion of a lweet liqueur which the
monks call BenediCl:ine, to the amount of
a mere dafh. Shake thefe ingredients weil
together with cracked ice, and pour into a
{mall glafs, into which fhould be firft placed
a Marafchino cherry.         This drink is
lufficient for one pedon, and fhould be
lerved only before eating. Becaufe of its
potency, it fhould be repeated cautioufly;




                                 A GARDEN
   A GAR.DEN .BEVERAGE

D     URING the Cummer of 1777, when
         a portion of the Continental Army
         was encamped near Pleafant Valley,
a detachment of troops under command of
one Captain Lord paufed before the home
of the Squire for a brief 'h alt. Defirous of
extending Cuch refrefbment as was at his
difpofal, the Squire fecured from his cellar
fome moft particular whiflcey which he had
dpecially imported from Ireland. By mix-
ing this with ice and water, with a touch
of a fyrup to take the place of fugar, (the
fupply of which had unwittingly run fhort),
the Squire -produced a beverage of moft
pleafing flavour. The officer, oblerving its
rdemblance in colour to th.e roles on the
buih in the doorway, inquired its name,
whereupon the Squire confcffed that it was
as yet unentitled. "Then," he obferved,
"it fhould be called the lrifh Rofe."
And by that name it has fince been known.
                                       THE
      THE IRISH ROSE

F
'
      OR each perfon, u(e a large beaker and
         fill it with cracked ice. Squeeze
         into it the juice of one lime and add
 a fweet, golden-brown {yrup known as
,Grenadine in quantities to fuit the tafte of
1the gueft, ufually about one pony. Then
 add one jigger of Irilh whi1key, lhake
thC concoB:ion well together till it be
thoroughly chilled, ferve with ftraws and
fip it flowly.




                                  A DINNllR.
     A DINNER DRINK

0      N the evening of December 14, 1783,
          there was held in Fraunce's 'Favero,
      · on Manhattan, an eventfull gather-
ing, at which was compounded, for the firft
time, the Squire's famous dinner drink,
with which tho{e who have been enter-
tained at Fairfield Manor are fo familiar.
On that occafion, General Walhington
bade farewell to the officers who had !erved
fo glorioufiy on his ftaff during the war with
Great Britain. The toddy for the toaft
was baled upon a recipe of General W alh-
ington himfelf, but the Squire, whofe
familiarity with Cuch matters was well
known in thofe parts. was invited to direct
its brewing. He added thereto divers
ingredients which both enhanced its flavour
and doubled its efficacy. In honour of the
place and occafion of its inception, the drink
 has fince been called the Tavern Toddy,
under which name it has fince been ferved.
                                        Tm;:
       THE TAVERN TODDY

-   B     REW a pint of fhong lemonade.
            Add thereto one-half pint of apricot
            brandy and one pint of cognac. Stir
    thefe ingredients together and pour the
    concoction over a piece of ice that has juft
    been placed in the punch bowl. J uft before
    ferving, add two quarts of chilled cham-
    pagne and drefs the bowl with frefh mint
    leaves, fliced oranges and feafonable fruits.




                                      A FESTAL
       A FESTAL BOWL

0      N one occafion, when the Squire was
            (pending the Yuletide at the Red
            Rofe Tavern, General Lafayette,
accompanied by· diftinguifhed dignitaries,
dropped in to quaff of refrefhment and bid
the greetings of the feafon. In confideration
of fuch honour, the hoft prevailed upon the
Squire to prepare a punch fuitable to the
occafion, and giving him the key to the wine
cellar, bade him devife a bowl that would
teft his· art. With fuch delicacy were the
divers togredients blended into an harmoni-
ous wnole that the guefts unwittingly
partook until the bowl was thrice emptied.
In rcfpo.hfe to inquiry as to its compounding
the Sqmre replied that he had put into it
everything but the licenfe, and thereupon
gave tl\¢ following recipe to General Lafay-
ette, who dubbed it The Squire's Punch and
served: i'f. thereafter at the festal ceremonies
which 1made his home juftly celebrated.
                                          THE
  TifE SQUIRE'S PUNCH

T       AKE an earthen veffel and put into
          it the thin peel of twelve lemons
          and fix oranges. Pour a pint of
 boiling water over them and let the mixture
 ftand one hour. Then ftrain it "into a
 punch bowl and add thereto fome light-
 brown fugar to the tafte. Add to this the
 juice of twenty-four lemons and fix oranges,
 two quarts of Jamaica rum, two quarts of
 brandy, two quarts of Sauterne wine and
 9ne quart of tea, made from one ounce of
 Oolong. Place into this concoction fhaw-
 berries, pineapples, cherries or other feafon-
 able fruits, and a large piece of ice, and if
 defired, from two to three quarts of water.
•And remember that the punch weakens
,proportionate to the melting of the ice.




                                A YULETIDE
    A YULE TI.DE TOAST

D     URING the Chriftmas holidays of
         1773, the Squire had the honour
         to entertain one Lord Aintree, of
 Devonfhire, who c'a me to this country as a
 fpecial emiffary from the Court of King
George III. In deference to his gueft, the
Squire invited his Lord.fhip to prepare a
Waffail after the ancient English cuftom,
wherewith to drink the Yuletide toaft.
Whereupon the diftinguifhed vifitor mixed
a feftal bowl in accordance with the
traditions of Aintree Hall, which in turn
had derived its recipe by diretl: line from
the beauteous Rowenna herfelf, who, while
feafting King Vortigern and his Saxon allies
in 450 A. D., raifed a golden goblet to her
lips and on her knees drank to the health of
the ancient chieftan in pledge of friendfhip
Of fuch excellence was Lord Aintree'~
efforts that the merrymakers thereupon
renamed it the Fairfield Waffail.
THE .FAI..RFIEL.D WASSAIL'

C     ORE and roaft fix· large apples, and
         keep them near at hand while com-'
        pounding the following : a pint of
ale, to which lhould be added a half pound
of brown fugar, and a half ounce each of
ginger, nutmeg and cinnamon. Heat this
mixture flowly, ftirring continuoufly, but
be careful not to let it boil. When hot,'
add two more pints of ale, one half-pint
of malagar and a little lemon peel. Then
pour the compound into .mugs, in each of
which lhould be placed, at the faft moment
before ferving, an apple, roafted juft to the
point•whereat it bunts white and fleecy.




                                A PILLOW
          A   PILLO 'II'/ -CUP

 I    N the. town of Frederickto!1• in the
        Province of New Brun{w1ck; there
        ftands a white ftone hoftlery of fuch
  lurpaffing neatness and having Cuch choice         ·j
  larder and cellars as to commend itfelf to
  travellers fr:om wherefoever they come. Here
· was it that the Squire, in the days of his
  youth, {pent his honeymoon with fweet
  Mifi:refs·Barbara, his wife, and here too was
  it that he found the hot fwizzle that he has
  fince appropriated to his own ufe and !hared
  fo bountifully with his friends. For many
  years has the Squire guarded the Cecret of
  its compofition in order that, {o far a~ may
  be, he could referve it for thofe occafions
  which would fittingly recall the au{picious
  time when firft they quaffed it together.
   " One cup of this
  " Will bat.he the drooping fpirits in ·dcli2ht
   ., Beyond the blifs of dreams,                '
  ., Be wife and tafte."
                                            Tmt
    THE MANOR SWIZZLE

T     O eight bottles of a light Rhenilh
         wine, add two bottles of Arrac and
         enough white fugar to fuit the
tafte. Add a few fticks of cinnamon, .a few
whole cloves, and mix the concoction well
in a metal veflel.
     Then heat a 'mulHng ftick (preferably
one made with canifter fhot faftened to the
end of a bent iron rod) until it be red hot,
and plunge it into the mixture. This will
burn off fome of the alcohol and at the fame
time heat the punch. Care muft be taken
to place the metal veffel where the flames
will not let fire to anything. This fwizzle
fbould be (erved in goblets while ii is ftill hot.




                                      A NIGHT
         A   NIGHT CAP

W        HEN in his youth, the Squire
          ferved as mate on the clipper ihip
           Spartan, failing from Bofi;on to
Cuch points on the coaft to which it was
at various ti.m es chartered by the merchants.
On one memorable voyage the veffel
touched at an obfcure port in Bermuda,
little known to civilization for the reafon,
(as was afterward afcertained) that the
town was infefted with buccaneers who
unmolefted, plied their nefarious trade. on;
night, when the Squire ftopped in at the
Black Swan Inn, he fell in with one
Roger- Lynch, a royftering fellow, from
whom he {ecured directions for the con~
col\:ion of a hot Night Cap, for which his
Inn was juftly renowned. So pleafed was
the Squire with this difcovery, that he
forthwith purchafed a fupply of ingredients
which he later Cerved tQ his fhipmates wh~
properly call~d it a Pirate Tipple.
                                        Tin:
    THE PIRA T.E TIPPLE

T     AKE !even ponies of Jamaica rum
         and add thereto four fpoonfulls of
         fugar, , one handfull of browned
coffee, three fticks of cinnamon, a half
dozen of cloves and fix pimento berries.
Allo, there might be added a few pieces of
frefu orange peel. Place all of thefe
ingredients together in a bowl and mix
them well. Then let fire to the concoB:ion
and let it burn till it becomes hot, after
which it fhould be ferved in rummers juft
before retiring for the night.




                                THH END
HERE ends this hook, THE SQUIRE'S RECIPES,
being a reprint of a certain hoax perpetrated on
a time hy one Kendall Banning, now produced in
this farm at the Lakeside Press in Chicago, and
issued hy_ the BROTHERS OF THE BooK during
December, Nineteen hundred and twelve.
;
-   .
    '· ·::·
