PaulFuchs'HerbTea
             SPECIAL TEAS FOR
   Rheumatism, Gout, Diabetis, Gall Stones,
       Anaemia, Constipation, lndig;estion
           Eczema, Skin Diseases, etc.




    PAUL FUCHSy Ghemisty
                      SI'HCI.-tLTY

Herb Tea for Curing all Diseases of the Blood
                  OJlice ami Laboratorj-

         1747 Carmen Ave., Chicago
 North Clark Street Cfir to Carmen Ave., two Blocks West
               URINE TEST FREE
 Tesitnionials of absolute cure furuished on application
 Onice Hours: ') A. M. to 2 E*. M., Saturdays and Sundays
      A. M. to .s l^. M . and Eveniny-s from g to m P. M.
         TELEPHONE RAVENSWOOD 7102
  The Electric Cigar Lighter
                      A Convenience for Your ClKar Counter

                      Enables your customers to light
                      their cigars in the most modern
  F-LKc.TRIC
                      way.    No smoke—no Hame—no
                      oflor. The cigar is lighted from a lit
  LIGHTER
                      tle coil kept red-hot by electricity

                         Commonwealth Edison Company
                      Phone Randolph 12H0,120 W. AdamsSt.
                                              Chicago    ,47A



Telephone Douglas 2084                      Automatic 72-301
                  H.iVrA. r>ll*MAN. Proprietors



    National Linen Supply Go.
                    PROMPT SERVICE


  Laundry Office, 2907-9-11-13 Cottage Grove Ave.

     GUSTAVE A. MUELLER
                         M A rCER   (>I<'



               Chief Red Jacket
         Zeaiiora and Ogden
              CIGARS
 2!)61 Lincoln Avenue                             CHICAdO
             Telephone Lake View 463




                  CHICAGO'S CHOICE.
    A $150,000 Oriental Palace where               particular
people go after or before Theatre.          Cuisine under
direction of one of the most famous mandarin chefs.
               You've Tried the Rest,
               Now Try the Best.
     Musical Program by Gennaro's Orchestra.
57 W. RANDOLPH STREET                             CHICAQO
               MOY WAH JUNE, Manager
KNAB'S
RESTAURANTS
LUNCH ROOMS
                  GENERAL OFFICE


1011 Steger BIdg., 28 East Jackson Blvd., GHICAGD
               TELEPHONE   HARRISON 3922




                  LOCATIONS:
36 E. Adams Street            185 W. Randolph Street
34 E. Monroe Street           318 S. Wabash Avenue
26 W. Monroe Street           106 N. Dearborn Street
18 N. Clark Street            52 W. Washington St.
31 S. Dearborn Street         25 W. Washington St.




BAR FIXTURES
       Bowling Alleys^ Gapom and
          Pocket-Billiard Tables
            and Accessories
          Over Sixty Years of Supremacy
    We are quality and price regulators and the World's
largest manufacturers. Our exclusive designs and low
prices will set your mind at ease and worry your competitor.
    The majority of high class and well appointed bar
rooms, hotels, clubs, etc,, install our make of goods to
meet the requirements. Satisfaction is a silent salesman,
therefore, when you think of quality, you are sure to
think of us.
    Handsome colored Art Catalog sent on request to those
interested. EASY TERMS-QUICK DELIVERY.

   THE BRUNSWICK-BALKE COLLENDER CO.
        623-633 So. Wabash Avenue
Phone Harrison 6220             CHICAGO
    STROHS BOHEMIAN BEER
                   Detroit, Mich.


                                       At The
                                     Club-



            •




           The Most Expensively
           Brewed Beer In America


                     CHICAGO BRANCH:

                 57-63 E. 16th Si.
                     CHICAGO. ILL.

                Phones
                Piiones .• I^Calumet  1663
                             Ayto, 67-7.M




        Telephone Yards 2196




J. l>. STEITZ

   Beer Pumps, Faucets,
   Carbonic Regulaicrs, Etc.

   REFINISHED AND REPAIRED




3131 South Halsted St.,                   CHICAGO
             Telephone Kedzie 4082

                                         GLEAN LINEN
 MclNTYRE                                SUPPLY GO.
         3026-3028 West Madison Street
                      CHICAGO

     LANDFiELD & STEELE
                     Manufacturers of

"El Parcial"         pjpAQQ ">-&SPearls"
"Puritan Club" UlunllU "LSSHclnegabiibeltr"
       227-229 West Lake Street, Chicago
                 Telephone Hain 617

WM. SWANSON, Sec'y & Treas.         A. QAMMELL, l\lanau:er
               PHONE HYDE PARK 560
                RES. TEL. MIDWAY 3441



  South Side Linen Supply Co.
         WE RENT COATS, VESTS,
         APRONS, TOWELS AND
                  TABLE LINEN
       CABINETS AND TOWELS RENTED

5121 Lake Avenue                                 Chicago
           BUY YOUR GOODS OF THE


   Fox River Distilling Co.
        They won't soak you more than anyone else.
              WHOI-ESALC       DEAI-ERS    JIM

              WINES AND UQVORS
         Bonded Whiskey a           Specialty.

FOX RIVER DISTILLING CO.. 14 So. Fifth Ave., Chitago
      T<-lc|ili(>ii('s: Harrison t:>1 t.        L'SKi
            Aiiioinailc              All Dcpls.

 OWEN H. FAY LIVERY CO.
        AUTOMOBILE LIVERYand GARAGE
        Taxlcab5, Toiirinj^   Cars and   Limousines

        435 Plymouth Place.              CHICAGO
                       OFFICES:
Congress Hotel and Annex,   Palmer House.   Stratford Hotel
  Great Northern Hotel, Hajestlc Hotel, Auditorium Hotel
      Chlcag:o Automobile Club, Union Leagfue Club
Phone Main 11 n                         HARRY COHN


   Vera Del Key Cigar Co.
        WAl. HANRAHAN, Representative

125 s. 5th Avenue,                          Chicago
Loni; Distance Tel. North 335           Automatic 3^«>57^



     Wendelin Meyer & Sons
            Importers and Wholesale Dealers in

            WINES and LIQUORS
434'43S VV. Chicago Ave.                         Chicago
                B. M. THEDIECK, Manager



         JOHN           A. THOMSON
                      Prin tor

               115 N.    FIFTH   AVENUE
                        CHICAGO
  With K. riaiulers   Co.           Telephone 4393 Main




CRESCENT
  JACKET
     APRON
        AND
PHONE     TOWEL
WEST 4060 3yPP|,Y
2215 W.Madison St.
         CHICAGO                                   lUi
        DOW                 B.       LEWIS
                    Hurry Back
                    BUFFET
        I Central 3456                114 N. Dearborn Street
Phones < Central »053
         I Auto. 48-676                          CHICAGO

S. MTZ, I'res-       A. J. KKNN"K1), V.-l'res.      V. VKGA,8cc>


   FLORENCIO
   VEGA & CO.
           Incorporated

Importer.s of and Dealer.s in

          Havana
     Leaf Tobacco
             Manufacturers of

                 pECbi^BrK^                          Clear
                                          Habana Cigars
                                             MADE IN ALL
                                                  SIZES.

                                        157 W. Randolph St,
                                                  CHICAQO

                                               Telephones:
                                        Plain 369    Auto. 31-989



Garden Citv Pop Corn lUorks
             GREENE & SON, Props.
                   S;irato(ra Pop Eoin,
                   F^arched .Sweet Corn

I7« N. STATE STREET                                  CHICACIO
                 PHONE      CENTRAU        S720




                 AUGAUER
                          BITTERS
                                The Original
    bJIteHS                          and Genuine

   isi                      ALWAYS THE BEST.

                          Hugaucr nittcrs Company
                            49 W. KlNZie ST.. CHICAGO
                              1




BARTENDERS'
MANUAL


       PUBLISHED   BY   THE




Bartenders' ilssociation
       of /Imcrica




      1913
                         COPYRIGHT   1912
                         BY W. T. BISHOP




jmf'ri Iirii'ii Iiiii,                      • fi   Mi'i
r




                 Ppefaee.



    IN compiling this book our subject is to
        come as near as possible to a uniformity
    of names and methods of mixingand serving
    drinks withthe view of establishing a standard
    to work from.
        There is no actual code universal, either
    in name or formulas for mixing drinks. A
    concotion in one city may be, in fact, is
    called by another name somewhere else,
    although containing the same ingredients.
    Our endeavor is to assemble       the various
    names and methods of concoctions so as to
    prevent confusion.   A barman should bear
    in mind, however, that any special whim of
    the customer should be observed, irrespect
    ive of your own method or form of preparing
    the drink.
        We believe this Manual      will   cover in
    general all drinks you will ever have a calj
    for. The name or some slight ingredient
    may vary in different parts of the country,
    but by using this Manual as refrences or
    guide you will have no difficulty in keeping
    yourself up to date and please the trade.
                                       PW»r"--" "T --v •


             ' • -i i;.'> V' •' i.M


                    .   .




              •r.            /




iFiii I '|              ,.f^w „   ..
       BARTENDERS'              MANUAL

INSTRUCTIONS FOR BARTENDERS WHILE
                 TENDING BAR.

  Always maintain a neat appearance in dress and
be scrupttlotisly clean in your person. White is the
proper dress for serving behind the bar.
  The white jacket is preferable to the white vest
and shirt sleeves, although the latter give more free
dom of movement. In this discrimination, however,
lie governed by your surroundings—that is to say,
thc'class of trade to which you arc catering.      Be
prompt to relieve the opposite watch, and when oft
duty leave the place immediately. Do not drink,
shake dice or enter into any kind of games with
customers, and whilst observing, upon all occasions,
a polite and cheerful and avoid arguments, espe
cially political and religious. Unnecessary con
versation and familiarity leads to embarrassing situ
ations and the bar man who becomes too familiar
wdth customers is usually made to pay for it in
some way.
  Keep your cash register straight and see that your
opposite does the same and do not blame him for
your faults nor stand for his.
  Do not allow anybody behind the bar who has no
right or business there. When you open the bar in
the morning give it a thorough ventilation (winter
and summer) and start the porter cleaning up and
see that no detail is neglected. The sweeping
should be done with wet sawdust, and toilet rooms,
urinals, washstands, etc., thoroughly cleaned and
provided with disinfectants, toilet paper, soap, clean
towels, etc. After the floor is swept or scrubbed
tbe windows should be washed and mirrors polished.
The wood furnishings should be gone over every
morning witb a damp sponge and dried with a
chamois skin, and at regular intervals the polished
hardwood furniture should be cleaned with some
kind of good furniture polish, of which there are
many kinds on the inarket that can lie purchased as
cheaply as they can be made in small cpiantities.
  As quickly as possible in the morning get your
glasses clean and shining; clean all silverware; pre
pare ice water; look to your bar napkins and towels,
and see that all serving bottles are filled and corked,
placing those for immediate use on ice. Then get
your workboard in order, i. e., a tborough washing
and polishing, and place on it such articles as be
long there. When washing glasses do not spread
them all over the counter, but leave room enough
to wait on your early customers comfortably; and
as soon as possible get you glasses back again on
the back bar or wherever they belong. Be careful
to keep your array of glasses on back bar always
tastily arranged. The effect of shining glassware,
properly arranged on a back bar, lends a peculiar
enchantment to the general handsome appearance
of a first-class bar. When the cleaning is finished
                         5
           BARTENDERS'            MANUAL

fill up the ice boxes or working bench with fine ice
and put in the serving stock. Then prepare the
lemon peel, fruits, berries, etc., which will be needed
during the day. Never leave glasses on the bar one
moment longer than possible and in a rush, take
advantage of every lull, if only for an instant, to
clean of? and dry well the top of counter. Keep
always on hand an ample supply of glasses, and
when renewing the stock of glasses always match
those which you are using, as different styles of
glasses for the same drink are confusing and do
not make as neat an appearance in dressing a back
Irar as does a uniform pattern.
  Keep working all during the dav, at such times as
opportunitj' offers, on your workboard, and by keep
ing it clean and in good order you will save your
self much trouble and give good service. Whenever
you use an implement or working article of any kind
put it back in its proper place the moment you are
through with it.
  When drinks are ordered—whether one, two or a
dozen—have the price well fixed in your mind before
serving^—make the calculation quickly whilst prepar
ing to serve, so that you will not have to hesitate
at the cash register.    See that you get all that is
due you and be very careful not to give a customer
short change. With modications to meet different
conditions, these few essential instructions can be
advantageously applied in every first-class bar; but
to formulate a set of rules to meet the requirements
of every bar business would be practically impos
sible. Taking, however, these instructions as a gen
eral guide the bar man will in every instance be bet
ter able to act intelligently when called upon to ex
ercise his common sense and judgment.
  After twisting lemon peel over a cocktail throw
it in or leave it out as customer may prefer.      The
flavor will be the same in both cases.
   Where many cocktails are served instead of mix-
in.g sugar for every order, dissolve a quantity of loaf
sugar in hot water; strain and bottle it and use by
dashing it from a bitters bottle.
  All mixed drinks containing an effervescent liquid
should be stirred with a spoon and not .=haken.
  When mixing hot drinks use thin glass, and by
placing a spoon in the glass before pouring in the
hot water you will save breakage. Always rinse the
glass with hot water before making the drink in
order to serve it hot.
  Unless^ served in a stem glass, never set a hot
drink on a polished counter without placing some
thing under the glass, i. e.. a saucer, napkin, etc.
The heat from the bottom of the .glass will disfigure
the bar.
  The jigger is the proper implement to use in mix
ing drinks.   It has the same capacity as a sherry
glass (3 oz.) and "is considered the standard measure
                           6
       BARTENDERS'                MANUAL

of an average drink of anj' spirituous liquor—whisky,
brandy, rum, etc.
   When drawing a cork from bottles of effervescent
liquids, bold the bottle in an oblique position and
after the cork is removed continue to bold in that
way for a few moments and the nset it upright.
  Keep the floor and walking board behind the bar
always dry, and have the bar-room floor looked after
from time to time during the day, if needed.
  Look well after the front of your establishment.
Have the surface of windows, fan, lights, etc., well
dusted and then washed off with a towel dipped in
plain water. After the woodwork is all cleaned
proceed with the window glass.
  In cleaning chandeliers, globes, brass and metal
work, etc., see that great care is used to prevent
breakage and wear.
  All this work should be done early in the morn
ing.

PRACTICAL METHOD FOR CLEANING MIR
             RORS AND SILVERWARE.

  Wash the silverware in soapy lukewarm water and
then dry it.     Dissolve whitening in the water and
put a thin layer of it on the article to be polished,
and let it dry. Then rub it off with a soft cloth
and polish with chamois or soft brush. Leave no
whitening in crevices.      Rub your mirrors briskly
with a damp linen cloth or towel, then dry with a
dry towel. Be careful in cleaning mirrors to al
low no water to run down the face of the mirror
and get into the joints and crevices of the frame.
The cloth should be just damp, so that no water
can be squeezed out of it, then "ou will be safe
in using it.

  PROOF AT WHICH TO SERVE LIOUORS.
  Domestic whiskies should be, as a rule, served
over the bar at about 93 proof.      Where the bar
man receives whiskies over proof, or where he has
aged the liquor himself, he can reduce it to 93 proof
by adding the necessary amount of clear, distilled
water and preserving the color with burned sugar
or caramel. The quantity of water to be used is deter-
determined entirely of water to be used is deter
mined entirely by the number of degrees of reduc
tion rquired.     This can always be known by ascer
taining, with the proper implements, the number of
gallons in the barrel; then filling a gallon measure
and reducing that with water to 93. The implements
for determining the degrees of reduction should be
kept always on hand by those who have occasion
to reduce.      After the one gallon is reduced to the
proper degree, and the contents of the barrel or
package ascertained, the rest is merely a matter
of simple calculation.
                            7
       BARTENDERS'              MANUAL

  Tt improves a barrel of whisky not over 5 years
old to put into it about a pint of rock candy syrup
and a pound of hickory nut kernels. The kernels
should he tied up, however, in a gauze hag or hags.
  Imported liquors, brandies, rums, gins, etc., al
ways come over proof and when received in hulk
should he reduced to about 93 proof. The profit
in imported goods at best is small and it is advis
able always, in pushing, to give preference to domes
tic goods, when this can he done without prejudice
to the business.
  In buying imported goods the buyer should re
quire the importers to give him an order on their
bonded warehouse so that the' goods may he de
livered directly to the buyer, and thereby the risk
of the liquor being adulterated by intermediaries is
avoided.
  As a rule, however, there is not much occasion
these days for the bar man to trouble about the
reduction and blending of his goods. If he knows
the tastes and wants of his trade (and which every
live bar man should know) he will find no difficulty
in making satisfactory arrangements with the dis
tillery to get his goods at proper proof and blended
just as he prefers, and at. no greater e.xpensc, not
to mention the saving of much trouble.

   SUGGESTIONS AND MONEY SAVERS.

                 Opening a Cafe.
  If you intend opening a cafe or saloon, or you
intend to move to a new neighborhood, the first and
most important thing to be taken into consideration
is the location, and that goes without saying. You
are opening a place to make money, and no man
can be successful unless he uses his brains A good
location or a busy and populous thoroughfare means
half the battle at least, with the understanding, of
course, that your place is made attractive and pleas
ing to the eye.
  Get a long lease, for there is no use in taking
chances with a short lease and have your landlord
come down on you with a raise in the rent just
as you are ready to do well, but yet in no position
to stand the increase.
  If you have any confidence in your business or
yourself avoid the short lease. Be sure and read
your lease over carefully before you sign it, and
beware of the clause that will prevent your selling
out and sub-lettin,g.
                   FURNISHINGS.
  "I^hese will depend entirely upon the neighbor
hood and the quality of trade to be catered to. If
the neighborhood is high class the fittings must be
elegant and costly, and in these davs a bar room the
enuipmcnt of which cost .1110.000 is not unusual.
  Extravagance is not necessary if the proper taste
is displayed.   If you have had no previous experi-
                            8
       BARTENDERS'                 MANUAL
ence consult us.     .An excess of furnishings some
times has the oi>i)ositc effect from that which was
expected or intended.
  If your place is in a poorer locality, the cost \yill
be very much less: but it all depends upon situation
and trade expected. But whether cheap or fancy,
bear in mind that it is economy to buy substantial
fittings. There were days when a man who opened
a saloon had to hire his own mechanics and have
hi.s bar built on plans he had outlined himself. 1hat
is all changed now, and the fitting of a bar has
come to he a very simple matter. Tn our show
rooms entire bars arc set up on exhiliition, and
selection is made varying with the ririce to lie •• .
  Don't forget the cellar and wine room.           The
walls of the cellar are literally the foundation of a
house and its contents are the foundation of the
business. The cellar should have a well-cemented
floor and cood ventilation.
  The main stock in trade of the saloon business
is good will. Those two words spell trade, and
the more friends you have, everything else being
considered, the better your trade will be.
   Another important point to be considered, is
the subject of local and special laws and regula
tions, such as for insfance, in New York State,
where no saloon is allowed within 200 feet of a
church or school.
  It is a rather difficult matter to figure offhand the
running expenses of any average saloon.
          ARRANGEMENT OF A BAR.
  The saloon man who expects the best possible
results from his bartenders will pay especial atten
tion to the making and arrangement of the work
ing bench, which is one of the most important fix
tures in a saloon. There are many handsome es
tablishments in this country which have a bench
that hampers and impedes the work of a good bar
man. This is a place in the making of which no
reasonable expense should be spared. Tt should be
lined with  tinned copper, the plumbing should
be onen and sanitary, the boxes should be made
with rounded edges, so as to make cleaning a simple
matter, and the accumulation of filth and dirt almost
imnossible.   We make this kind.                          i I
  Take as much imide in the bar bench as you do
in the back bar, and you will find that the tone of
your jilace will be better.
          CONCERNING              GLASSWARE.
   The bartender or saloon man who neglects his
glassware ought to go into some other busines. fr
is a simple matter to keep glassware not only clean
but polished, and no man's time could be spent
more   profitably.    Customers like to drink      from
glasses which are free from even any suspicion of
ciust or finger marks. Wash all glasses as soon as
possible after being used, leave them on the bench
                              9
            BARTENDERS'              MANUAL
 a few moments to drain and then polish them with
 a linen glass towel.
    Nothing will help your place and reputation for
 "class" more than a handsome bar and shining
 glassware.

         BUYING SUPPLIES AND FIXTURES.
   The question of buying stock is always an im
 portant one. A thorough business man will buy
 from the man who can supply you with the goods
 you want at the lowest possible price, for you are
 in business to make money, and one of the best
 ways to begin is to buy right. Buying cheaply is
 not always buying right, unless you get the right
 quality.    You may have friends in the wholesale
 business, but they may not be able to supply you
 with the brand of goods your trade calls for. Bear
 in mind that even though friendship is worth some
 thing, your customer has to be taken into considera
 tion. He knows what he wants, and if he cannot
 get it from you he will probably go somewhere
 else.
   Go to a first-class place, buy standard goods and
 pay the lowest market price. Pay cash when yovi
 can, and take full advantage of any discount you
 may be able to get, for it will make a big item
saved at the end of twelve months.
  Whatever happens, don't fail to keep up the stand
ard of your stock and fixtures, unless you want
your business to run down and out. Customers
will not come if you have poor stock or unattractive
fixtures.
   Right here it is well for you to remember that
many saloon keepers lose business by having un
attractive fixtures. His place may contain the very
finest bar goods he can buy, but the probable patron
would never guess it.
  The combination of High Class Fixtures and high
quality liciuors cannot be beaten. Remember that
you are offering good cheer to the nublic; the sur
roundings cannot he too attractive. The public"e.x-
pects and is entitled to the Best Bar Fixtures you
can buy. That's why yon should buy standard
goods from a     standard    firm.    The   discriminat
ing public of today has been educated up to High
Standard Fixtures.
  How many men have you seen look in a saloon
door, hesitate and walk on, only to enter another
saloon in the same block? Thousands, of course,
and you know the reason why. The man who
looked before he entered saw a Cheap Looking Bar
and immediately deducted that the goods for sale
were cheap.    Do you blame him?
  The pine topped counter and glazed back bar are
relics of the dim and musty past. To the attic for
                            JO
            BARTENDERS'             MANUAL

them; the world does move; this is the Era of Qual
ity in the saloon business.
              THE    SALE     OF   CIGARS.
   When you put in your cigar stock, put in the
best, whether domestic or imported. The average
keeper of a small saloon handles an atrociously bad
brand of tobacco in the form of cigars, though wh\
he should do so it is a difficult matter to find out.
Perhaps he wants to increase his profits, or it may
be that he is of the false opinion that his customers
do not know the difference between good and bad
tobacco, and then again he may not know the dif
ference himself.
  Don't fall into this too common error.      Give the
people who patronize you value received for theii
money, and you will win out in the long run.
   Hiave-the proper kind of a humidor to keep your
stock in, and see that they are exhibited to advan-
ta.ge. Cigars are easily kept in summer, the main
thing being not to have them too moist. It is in
the winter that you will need to watch your stock
carefully. Artificial heat is very drying, and when
ci.gars become too dry they not only smoke badly,
but the wrappers are easily broken, and the stock-
becomes unsatisfactory, not only to look at but
to smoke as well.           M odern and wiell-equipped
cigar cases are reasonable in nrice, and no man wdio
sells cigars ought to be without one. He will save
money in the long run by paying a little more for
his case in the beginning.
                    THE ICE BOX.
  The ice box is one of the most important features
of a saloon, and consequently a .great deal of at
tention should be paid to it, its location, etc Th-
best material isn't an- too good for it to be made of,
and it is better to have it too large than too small.'
The average saloon man expects his business to
grow rather than to decrease, and the rebuilding
of a box IS not always a good proposition so if ft
is built large enough at first, it may, in the near
future, save a lot of what may be considered un-
nessary expense. It should not be nailed together
under any circumstances, unless you are looking' for
trouble, but should be screwed fast at every joint
facturers—perfect     refrigeration    and   reasonable
price.
  Study your establishment and your trade; keep
the first up-to-date and in good order and you will
be able to hold the latter.      When good times come
don't try to increase your revenue by handling a
cheaper grade of .goods—keep everything up to 'the
standard, even thou.gh the profits are less, for by
that means vou will establish a reputation that will
stand you in good stead.     No patron will want
these goods unless they are displayed on attractive
fixtures.
                            11
           BARTENDERS'          MANUAL
HOW TO KEEP AND HOW TO SERVE DRY
                      WINES.

  Clarets, burgundies, white wines, sauternes, and
all other dry wines should be kept in a cool place,
with an even temperature. If severely chilled they
will become clouded, losing all their brilliancy. The
bottles should he on the side, so that wine covers
the cork. These wines do not keep well except in
bottles.    Dry wine shipped in bulk should he al
lowed to remain undisttirbed and unopened in the
cask for three or four days to entirely recover from
the shaking up received in transuortation.     It
should then be promptly bottled, using corks tbat
fill the neck air tight. If a part of the wine be
drawn, admitting air into the cask, the remaining
wine will soon become affected and quickly turn
"milk sour." The finer and lighter the wine, the
more certain is this to occur. It is owing to no
imperfection of the wine, but because the natural
alcoholic strength of pure dry wines is never suffi
cient to withstand the action of the germs of fermen
tation in the open air.   Observe the foregoing di
rections and your wines will keen in snlendid con
dition; .otherwise, no matter how fine they may be.
you are very likely to have trouble, and blame the
wine merchant most unjustly.       Clarets and bur-
.gundies should he served at a temperature from 70 to
75 degrees. White wines and sauternes from 45 to
50 degrees.    Never put on ice nor put ice in the
glass.
  Champagne cases should be opened witb great
care and the bottles laid always on their sides. There
should be a compartment on the shelves for each
kind of wine, which is to be laid horizontally. Never
keep more champagne on ice than is needed for
immediate use. and keen it at a temperature near
freezing point until used. To cool champagne and
allow it to .get warm again impairs the strength and
flavor of the wine.
  In serving champagne, ascertain what brand the
customer desires. Then place the glass on the bar,
take the bottle from the ice; twist or cut the wire
off and cut the string below the neck of the bottle;
remove tbe cork witb tbe band and wipe tbe month
of tbe bottle with a clean napkin or towel.       In
serving anv kind of wine to a party always nour a
little first into the glass of the customer who or
dered it. then fill up tbe glasses of his guests, re
turning to him last.     When a drinking party is
seated at a table tjnd a bottle of wine of anv kind is
ordered, never uncork the bottle until it has first
been     set for a moment on the table so that the
customer who ordered the wine may see that it is
what he ordered.
 When champagne frappe is called for the riuickest
way to freeze the wine is to place the bottle in a
cooler witb broken ice and torpedo salt on top;
then, using both hands, twirl the bottle briskly and
                          12
        BARTENDERS'               MANUAL

in such manner as to cause tlie mouth to describe a
circle while at the same time the bottle is revolvii\g
back and forth; tiicn draw the cork and cover the
motith of the bottle with a clean napkin.
  In drawing the cork from all other kinds of wine
bottles cut off the top of the foil cap below the
groove in the neck of the bottle; then remove that
part of the foil above the incision and wipe the
mouth of the bottle with a clean towel to prevent
any foreign substance, which may have accumulated
tinder the foil cap, from getting- into the wine while
pouring. Draw the cork and serve.
   Never keep in a conspicuous glass case or on
visible shelving bottle wines whicli otherwise may
be kept in good condition standing up in places out
sight, for the reason that the bottles will become
dusty and unsightb-. and if taken down from time
to time to he dusted and wiped off the sediment
will be disturbed" and you are in    danger  of
sometimes serving a bottle of wine which, while
good, will not do you credit as it may not be as
clear as it should be.       Bottled liquors (whiskies,
brandies, gins, etc.) can be kept standing anywhere
and handled at will.

  HOW TO KEEP AND                 HOW TO     SERVE
                   SWEET WINES.

  All sweet wines, being fortilied with grape brandy,
keep   in   any   ordinary   temperature, and   improve
faster in the attic than in the cellar.   They should
be served at a temperature ranging- from 60 to O")
degrees. As sweet wines are not injured by slight
exposure to the air. it is best to keep the bottles
standing upright, that the sediment may settle to
the bottom instead of the side of the bottle.
  To insure perfect brilliancy when served, wine
bottled for a Rngth of time should he careRilly
handled when uncorked, for, however inire the wine,
a deposit naturally forms on the bottom of the liot-
tle. The contents must he carefully decanted, as
the wine would be unfit for immediate use if the
sediment be much disturbed.




                             13
Recipes For Mixing Fancy Drinks
  Absinthe—American Style.—(A large bar glass.)
   glass of fine ice; 4 or 5 clashes of gum syrup; 1
pony of absinthe; 2 wineglasses of water. Shake
the ingredient until the outside of the shaker is cov
ered with ice. Strain into a large bar glass.
  Absinthe Cocktail.—(A large bar glass.)     Fill
tumbler with ice; 3 or 4 dashes of gum syrup; 1
dash of Angostura bitters; 1 dash of anisette; %
wineglass of water;      wineglass absinthe.  Stir
well; strain into a fancy cocktail glass. Twist a
piece of lemon peel on top.
  Absinthe Frappe.— (In mixing glass.) Yi full of
ice; 3 dashes anisette; 1 dash of syrup; 1 jigger
water; Yz jigger of absinthe.
  Absinthe—French Style.—(A large bar glass.) 1
pony of absinthe. Fill the bowl of your absinthe
glass (which has a hole in the center) with fine ice
and the balance with water.      Then elevate the bowl
and let the contents drip into the glass containing
the absinthe, until the color shows a sufficiency.
Pour into a large bar glass.
   Aguinaldo Punch.—(Large punch glass.) 1 spoon
ful of bar sugar; 4 dashes lemon juice; 4 dashes
French vermouth; 4 dashes rum; 1 jigger of whisky.
Fill glass half full of crushed ice.    Fill with seltzer.
Decorate with fruit and serve with a straw.

  Ale Sangaree.—(An ale glass.)          1 teaspoon of
powdered sugar; fill up with ale; grate nutmeg on
top.

  Amaranth Cocktail.—Make a regular cocktail and
strain into a whisky glass. Fill up with seltzer or
Vichy water.    Dip a small spoon in fine sugar, and
with what sugar remains upon spoon stir up the
cocktail so as to cause it      to   ferment;   have   the
spoon a little wet when dipping in the sugar.
  American Beauty.—(Use tall thin glass.) 4 tea-
spoonful of creme de menthe; fill with shaved ice;
then in another glass mix the following: Juice of
Y2 orange; small spoonful of sugar; Yi jigger good
brandy; Y2 jigger French vermouth; pour in the first
glass; dash the top with port wine. Dress with
fruits and a sprig of green mint and serve with a
straw.   '•    .•

  American Flag.—(In wine glass.) Use Yi cream
with Y2 maraschino; fill glass with claret, keeping
colors separate.

  American Pousse Cafe.—Lt maraschino; 3 Cura-
coa;    chartreuse (green); Ya brandy. Keep the
colors separate.
                           14
           BARTENDERS'                  MANUAL
  Angel's Tit.—Eill cordial glass % full of Curacoa;
float cream on top; stick toothpick through a
cherry and place on top of glass.
..Angora Highball.—(In lizz glass.) Lump of ice;
dash Angostura bitters; juice of 1 lime; jigger
white creme de menthe; lill with club soda or min
eral water. Serve with spoon.
   Apollinaris Lemonade.—Eill mixing glass % full
fine ice; 1 tablespoonful of powdered sugar; the
juice of 1 lemon; 1 split of Apollinaris water. Stir
the above mixture thoroughly and strain, into a lem
onade glass with fruit and serve.

    Applejack Cocktail.—(A large bar glass.) 3 or 3
dashes of gum syrup; 2 or 3 dashes of raspberry
syrup; 1 wineglass of applejack; fill glass half full
of fine ice. Shake well; strain into a cocktail glass;
twist a bit of lemon peel in it.
 Applejack Fix.—(A large bar glass.)             Same as
Brandy Fix, using applejack instead.

   Applejack Sour.—(A large bar glass.) Fill glass
•kj full of fine ice; 14 tablespoon of sugar in a little
water; 2 or 3 dashes of lemon juice; 1 wineglass old
applejack. Stir well; strain into a sour glass; dress
with fruit.

   Arrack Punch.—(A bar glass.) 1 tablespoon of
sugar, dissolved in a little water; 1 or 2 dashes of
lemon juice; 1 wineglass of Batavia arrack; half
fill glass with fine ice. Shake well; dress with fruits
and serve with a          straw.

  A Suydam.—1 dash of orange bitters; 1 dash of
Angostura bitters. Then hand the bottle of liquor
out and let the person help himself. This is an ap
petizer.
    Baltimore Egg Nogg.— (A large bar glass.)            1
yolk of an egg; -kj tablespoon of sugar, add a little
nutmeg and ground cinnamon to it and beat it to
a cream; >4 pony of brandy; 3 or 4 lumps of ice; ki
pony of Jamaica rum; 1 pony of Madeire wine; fill
glass with milk. Shake thoroughly, strain, grate a
little nutmeg on top.
  Beef Tea.—^(A hot water glass.) kt teasponful ot
the best beef extract; fill the glass with hot water.
Stir up well with a spoon; plaae pepper, salt, celerj'-
salt handy, and if so desired, put in a small pony
of sherry wine or brandy.
   Bishop.— (A large bar glass.)   1 tablespoon of
sugar; 2 dashes of lemon juice; jd the juice of an
orange; 1 squirt of seltzer water; -kj glass of fine
ice, fill the balance with Burgundy; dash of Jamai
ca rum.      Stir well.    Dress with fruit and serve with
a   straw.
                                   15
        BARTENDERS'                 MANUAL
  Black Stripe.—(Use small bar glass.) 1 wineglass
St. Croix rum or Jamaica; 1 tablespoonful New Or
leans molasses.    If called for in summer, stir in
about a tablespoonful of water and cool with fine
ice.   If in the winter, (ill the glass with boiling
water, grating a little nutmeg on top, and serve.
  Blackthorne Cocktail.—Fill mixing glass % full
line ice; 1 teaspoonful of syrup; ]4 teaspoonful of
lemon juice; 2 dashes orange bitters; 1 dash Pey-
chaud or Angostura bitters;       wineglass Italian
vermouth; pi wineglass Sloe gin. Stir the above
ingredients thoroughly and strain into a cocktail
glass and serve.

  Blackthorn Sour.—(Use mixing glass.)                Fill %
full of shaved ice; 3 teaspoonfuls lime or lemon
juice; 1 teaspoonful pineapple syrup,     teaspoonful
abricotine; 1 wineglass sloe gin. Stir well, strain
into claret glass, dress with fruit and serve.
  Blue Blazer.—pi tablespoonful of sugar, dissolved
in a little hot water; 1 wineglass of Scotch whisky.
Set the liquid on fire, and while blazing, pour three
or four times from one mug into another.                This
will give the appearance of a stream of liquid fire.
Twist a piece of lemon peel on top with a little
grated nutmeg. As this preparation requires skill
it is quite requisite that the amateur should practice
with cold water at first.

  Boston Egg Nogg.—(A large bar glass.)              Yolk of
an egg; 14 tablespoon powdered sugar; add a little
nutmeg and cinnamon and beat to a cream;                pony
of brandy; 1 wineglass of ice; p; pony of Jamaica
rum; 1 wineglass of Madeire wine; fill the glass
with milk. Shake well, strain into a large bar glass,
grate a little nutmeg on top.

  Bottle of Cocktail.—1 qt. of good old whisky; 1
pony of Curacoa; 1 wineglass of gum syrup; -Jq pony
of Angostura bitters.   Mix well by pouring it from
one shaker into    another,      until   it   is   thoroughly
mixed; pour it into a bottle and cork it and you
will have an elegant bottle of cocktail.
  Bowl of Egg Nogg for a Party.—For a 3-gallon
bowl, mix as follows; 3p2 lbs. of fine powdered
sugar; 20 fresb eggs, have the yolks separated, beat
as tjiin as water, and add tbe yolks of the eggs into
the sugar'and dissolve by stirring well together; 2
quarts of good old i)randy; Ipl pints of Jamaica
rum; 3 gallons of good rich milk. Mix the ingredi
ents well, and stir continually while pouring in the
milk to prevent it from curdling; then beat the
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and put this on
top; then fill a bar glass with a ladle, put some of
the egg froth on top; grate a little nutmeg over it
and serve.
                            16
         BARTENDERS'             MANUAL

  Brace Up.—(A larg^e bar glass.) 1 tablespoonful
of white sugar; a or :i dashes of bitters; 2 or 3
dashes of lemon juice; 1 dash of lime juice; 2 dashes
of anisette; 1 fresh egg; •)4 glass of brandy;  glass
of shaved ice. Shake this up thoroughly in a shak
er; strain it into a large glass and lill with Vichy or
Apollinaris water.

  Brace Up Saratoga.—-(.A large bar glass.) 1 table
spoon of line white sugar; 2 or 3 dashes of Boker's
bitters; 3 or 4 dashes of lime juice; 2 dashes of ab
sinthe; ] fresh egg; 1 wineglass of brandy; 2 small
lumps of ice. Shake thoroughly; strain into anoth
er glass and lill with seltzer water.

   Brandy Champerelle, No. 1.— (A sherry glass.)
 wineglass of Curacoa (red); )4 wineglass of Char-
.treuse (yellow); Y wineglass of anisette or maras
chino; Y wineglass of brandy; 2 or 3 drops Angos
tura bitters. To be prepared with the same care
as in concocting Pousse Cafe, not allowing the dif
ferent liquors to run into one another.

  Brandy Champerelle.—(A sherry glass.) % wine
glass of brandy; 'A wineglass of maraschino; %
wineglass of Angostura Isitters.    Keep colors sepa
rate.

  Brandy Cocktail.—(A large bar glass.) 2 or 3
dashes of guin syrup; 2 or 3 dashes of Angostura
or Boker's bitters: 1 or 2 dashes of Curacoa; 1
wineglass of brandy; ka .glass of line ice. Stir well
and strain into a cocktail glass. Twist in a piece of
lemon peel to extract the oil.

  Brandy Crusta.—(A large bar glass.)          glass of
fine ice; 3 or 4 dashes of gum syrup; 1 or 2 dashes
of Angostura bitters; 1 or 2 dashes of lemon juice;
2 dashes of maraschino; 1 .wineglass of brandy.
Procure a nice, bright lemon the size of your wine
glass. Peel the rind from it all in one piece; lit it
into the glass, covering the entire inside; run a
slice- of lemon around the edge and dip the glass
in powdered sugar. Strain the mixture, after being
stirred well, into the prepared glass.- Dress with a
little fruit.

  Brandy Daisy.—(A small bar glass.) 3 or dashes
of gum syrup;   the juice of a.lemon; 2 or 3 dashes
of orange cordial; 1 wineglass brandy; lill glass
half full of line ice.   Shake thoroughly, strain and
lill UP with seltzer water or Apollinaris.

  Brandy Fix.—(A large bar glass.)      Fill glass with
with line ice; Y2 tablespoon of sugar, dissolved in
wineglass of seltzer water; ^2 pony of pineapple
syrup; 1 wineglass of brandy. Stir with a spoon.
Dress with fruit.    Serve with a straw.
                           17
         BARTENDERS'                MANUAL

   Brandy Fizz.—{A. large bar glass.) ^2 teaspoon of
fine sugar; juice of Yz lemon; i wineglass of brandy;
1 or 2 dashes of white of egg; Y glass of fine ice.
Shake well. Strain into a fizz glass; fill up with
seltzer or vichy. This must be imbibed immediately.
   Brandy Flip.—( A large bar glass.)          Yz glass of
fine ice; 1 egg, beaten tborougby; G tablespoon of
sugar; 1 wineglass of brandy. Use a shaker in
mixing; strain into a fancy bar glass; grate a little
nutmeg on top.
  Brandy Float.—See "How to serve a pony glass
of brandy," and follow directions, but before re
moving pony glass from whisky glass fill the latter
% full of water; then slowly withdraw pony glass,
allowing the brandy to float on top of the water.
  Brandy Julep.—Is made the same as the mint
julep, omitting the fancy fixings, however.
   Brandy Punch.—(A large bar glass.) I tablespoon
of sugar dissolved in a little water;       of a small
lemon; RJ glass of St. Croix rum; 1^2 wineglass of
brandy; 1 piece of pineapple; i or 2 slices of orange;
fill glass with fine ice. Shake well. Dress with
fruits and serve with a       straw.

  Brandy Sangaree.—^(A small bar glass.) 2 small
lumps of ice; Yz wineglass of water; Y^ wineglass
of brandy; 1 teaspoon of sugar. Stir well; give a
dash of port wine on top.
  Brandy Scaffa.—(Use sherry glass.) Ya sherry
glass raspberry syrup; Rt glass maraschino; Ri glass
green Chartreuse. Top off with brandy and serve.
This drink is made like a pousse cafe.
  Brandy Shrub.—(Use bowl to make 8 cpiarts.)
G lbs. of loaf sugar dissolved well with a bottle of
plain soda; .5 quarts of old brandy; 3 quarts of
sherry; 12 lemons. Peel the rind of 5 lemons; add
the juice of the other 7 lemons and mix with the
brandy in bowl; cover it close for .1 days; then
add the sherry and sugar; .strain through a bag
and bottle.
  Brandy Sling.—(A hot-water glass.) 1 lump of
sugar; 1 wineglass of brandy; fill up with hot water.
Stir well; grate nutmeg on top. For a cold brandy
Sling, use a lump of ice and cold water.
  Brandy Smash.—(A large bar glass.) ^2 table
spoon of sugar; ^2 wineglass of water; 2 or 3 sprigs
of niint, pressed as in mint julep; 1 wineglass of
brandy; fill glass Y2 full of fine ice.   Stir well; strain
into a fancy bar glass.
  Brandy Sour.—(A large bar glass.)      Fill glass
with ice; Yi tablespoon of sugar; 2 or 3 dashes of
lemon juice; a squirt of seltzer; 1 wineglass of
brandy. Stir well; strain into a sour glass; dress
with fruits as usual.
                             18
             BARTENDERS'              MANUAL
      Brandy and Ginger Ale.—(A large bar glass.) 2
    or 3 lumps of ice; 1 wineglass of brandy; 1 bottle of
    ginger ale.   Mix well together. The imported
    ginger ale is the best to use as it not only mixes
    better but gives more satisfaction.

      Brandy and Gum.—(A whisky glass.) 1 or 2
    dashes of gnm syrnp; 1 or 2 lumps of ice. Place
    a spoon in the glass and stir in the brandy.

      Brandy and Soda.—(A large bar glass.) 1 wine
    glass or brandy;   glass of line ice; fill up with
    plain soda.        The above is a pleasing drink for
    summer.



      Brandy, burned, and Peach.—(A small bar glass.)
    1 wineglass of brandy; )/2 tablespoonfnl of sugar;
    burn brandy and sugar together in a dish or saucer;
    2 or 3 slices dried peach. Place the fruit in the
    glass, pour the burned liquid over it, grate a little
    nutmeg on top.        The above is a Southern prepara
    tion and often used in cases of diarrhoea.

       Bronx Cocktail.—orange; fill mixing glass
    full ice; % Italian and % French vermouth;
    % Gordon gin. Shake and strain in cocktail glass.

      Brunswick Cooler.—(A large bar glass.) Juice of
    1 lemon;    tablespoon of powdered sugar; 1 bottle
    of cold ginger ale. Stir well; dress with fruit.

      Buffalo Fizz.—(Use large bar glass.) )-2 a lemon;
    1 barspoon powdered sugar; 1 jigger rye whisky-
       jigger sherry wine; white of 1 egg; shake well',
    strain into small fizz glass, fill with fizz, same as
    Swiss Ess, and serve with slice of orange.

      California Sherry Cobbler.—(A large bar glass.)
       tablespoon of sugar; -1 pony of pineapple syrup;
        wineglass of California sherry; fill glass with
    fine ice.   Stir well; dress with fruit and gently
    pour a little port on top.     Serve with a straw.

      California Wine Cobbler.—(A large bar glass.)
    Fill glass with fine ice; tablespoon of sugar; juice
    of 1 orange; Ika wineglass of California wine. Stir
    well; dress with fruit; top with port wine. Serve
    with a    straw.

      Catawba Cobbler.—(A large bar glass.) 1 tea
    spoon of sugar, dissolved in % wineglass of water;
    2 wineglasses of Catawba wine; fill glass with fine
    ice;, and dress with fruits. Serve with a straw.

      Century Club Punch.—1 pint of old Santa Cruz
    rum; 1 pint of old Jamaica rum; 5 pints of water,
i                           19
          BARTENDERS'                   MANUAL
  Champagne Cobbler.—(A large bar glass.) M
tablespoon of sugar; 1 slice of orange; 1 piece ot
lemon peel; fill Va of a glass with fine ice and
balance with wine.    Dress with fruits and serve with
a straw.     Never   use   the        shaker   to   champagne
beverages.

  Champagne Cocktail.—(A champagne goblet.)
Fill v.; of the goblet with broken ice; 1 lump of
sugar; 1 or 2 dashes of Angostura bitters; 1 or 3
dashes of orange; fill up with wine and stir. Serve
with a piece of twisted lemon peel on top. Use
none but Boker's or the genuine Angostura bitters.
The latter possesses a certain rich flavor and deli
cate perfume, altogether unapproachable by others.
  Champagne Cup.—(A large punch bowl for a
party.)    2 wineglasses of pineapple syrup; 4 to 6
sprigs of green balm; 1 quart of Curacoa; 1 pint of
Chartreuse (green); 1 quart of fine old Cagnac; 1
quart of Tokay; 4 bottles of apollinaris; 6 oranges
and 2 lemons cut in slices. Stir up well together, let
it stand two hours, strain it into another bowl and
add: Yz pineapple cut in slices; Yz box of straw
berries; G bottles of champagne. Place the bowl
in the ice, and sweeten with a little sugar and let it
ferment; stir up well and serve.

     Champagne Julep.—(A large bar glass.) 1 lump
of white sugar; 1 sprig of mint, press to extract
the essence, pour the wine into the glass slowly,
stirring gently eontinually. Dress tastily with sliced
orange, grapes and berries.

  Champagne Punch.—(Served in champagne gob
lets.) 1 quart bottle of wine; Y^ lb. of sugar; 1
orange, sliced; the juice of a lemon; 3 or 4 slices
of    pineapple;   1 wineglass         of    strawberry syrup.
Dress with fruit.

     Champagne Sour.—(A large bar glass.)                1 tea
spoon of sugar; 2 or 3 dashes of lemon juice; %
fine ice; fill up with wine. Stir well, and dress with
fruit and berries in season.

  Chicago Cooler.—(Large punch glass.) 1 piece
of ice; 1 teaspoonful lemon juice; 1 bottle imported
ginger aje. Float a little elaret on top and serve.

  Cider Egg Nogg.—(A large bar glass.) 1 fresh
egg; Ya tablespoon of sugar; 3 or 4 small lumps of
ice; fill the glass with cider. Shake well and strain,
grate a little nutmeg on top.               This drink is a very
pleasant one, and is popular throughout the south
ern part of the country and it is not intoxicating.
Use the very best quality of cider, as by using poor
cider it is impossible to make this drink palatable.
                                 20
     Berghoff
Brewing Association

  BOTTLED BEER
  Delivered to All Parts
          of the City.



PHONE CALUMET                                 570




        ONCE TRIED, ALWAYS USED, a




       bco«i«iNa   Ci


     9BAR FIXTURES,
          DRAIN BOARDS g
                        AND ALL
    ^Ttn, 2lno» Brasst Copper.
     } Nickel and alt Kitchen and G
             Plated Utensils.
    HClass. Wood, Marble. Por* {;
                celain, Etc.

        GEORGE WM. HOFFMAN
          •91* H&auisctorsr aad frepn.tar
    •) 298 EfttY WtOMinaTONST . InooNtPOiiS


        THE BAR-KEEPERS' FRIEND. J
       When. You Want
        A    Good Drink
one that will satisfy you from the ground
up—^just step into the nearest club, hotel,
cafe or restaurant and order a bottle of




Evans'
       Ak
—or better still, order a supply from your
dealer and enjoy solid comfort at home.
The satisfaction of getting the best that
money can buy or brewing knowledge
can produce goes with every bottle.
     Sold Orv Its Merits Everywhere.
            BEEWBD FOE 118 TEAE3 BT

    C. H. EVANS & SONS, Hudson, N. Y.
           BARTENDERS'              MANUAL

  Cider Punch.—Yz      pint    of   sherry;    1 glass   of
brandy; 1 bottle of cider; Yn pound of sugar; I
lemon.     Pare the peel of half the lemon very thin;
pour the sherry upon it; add the sugar, the juice
of the lemon, and the cider, with a little grated
nutmeg.     Mix well and place it on ice. When cold,
add the brandy and a few pieces of cucumber rind.
  Claret Cup for a Party.—(Use a bowl for mix
ing.) 10 to 13 pieces of lump sugar; 1 bottle of
apollinaris; 3 lemons, 3 oranges and J/< pineapple,
cut in slices; 3 wineglasses of maraschino. Mix well
with a ladle, place this into your vessel or tin
dish filled with ice. When the party is ready to
call for it add: 4 bottles of fine claret; 1 bottle of
champagne, or any other sparkling wine. Mix
thoroughly and place sufficient berries on top and
serve it, and you will have an elegant claret cup.
  Claret Cobbler.—Same as Catawba, using claret
instead.

  Claret and Champagne         Cup.—(A        large   punch
bowl for a party of twenty). Claret and champagne
cup is a Russian drink, where for many years it
has enjoyed a high reputation amongst the aristoc
racy. Proportions: 3 bottles claret wine; -j4 pint of
Curacoa (red);-l pint of sherry; 1 pint of French
brandy; 3 wineglasses of ratafia of raspberries: 3
oranges and 1 lemon, cut in slices; some sprigs of
green balm and of borage; 3 bottles of German
seltzer water; 3 bottles of soda. Stir this together
and sweeten with capillaire pounded sugar, until
it ferments; let it stand one hour; strain and ice it
well; it is then fit for use; serve it in small
glasses.    This quantity for an evening party of
twenty persons; for a smaller number reduce the
proportion.
  Claret Punch.—In a punch goblet              f"'! of fine
ice, one tablespoonful of grenadine syrup, slice of
lemon, drink of claret, stir thoroughly and dress
with fruit.
  Clover Leaf.—(In mixing glass.) Y^ full of ice;
juice Yi lime; 3 dashes of grenadine syrup; white
of 1 CSSI dash of maraschino; drink of Gordon
„in. Shake and strain in large cocktail glass; deco
rate with leaves of mint to represent closer leaf.
  Cocktail, Appetizer.—V-a wineglass brandy; % wine
glass maraschino; % wineglass red Guarcoa; 3
dashes orange bitters: 3 dashes Angostura bitters.
Shake well, strain and serve with a piece of lemon
peel.

  Cocktail, Automobile.—3 dashes gum, 3 dashes of
orange bitters; equal proportions (one-third) of
Italian vermouth, Scotch whisky and Old Tom gin.
Serve with a cherry, or an olive, as desired.
                          21
         BARTENDERS'                MANUAL

   Cocktail, Bijou.—(Use large bar glass.) 34 glass
filled with shkved ice; % wineglass green chartreuse;
Ki wineglass Italian vermouth; % wineglass Plym
outh gin. Stir well with the spoon, and after strain
ing in cocktail glass add cherry or small olive,
and serve after squeezing lemon peel on top.
     Cocktail, Celery.—Take pony beer hlass •)4 full
of Dr. Brown's celery tonic; '/i pony glass of creme
de    menthe; 3 dashes Angostura aromatic hitters
and serve.

  Cocktail, Cincinnati.—(Use large bar glass.)
glass of beer,   glass of soda or ginger ale. This is
a particularly palatable drink for warm weather.

  Cocktail, Coffee.—(A large bar glass.) 1 teaspoon-
full of powdered white sugar; 1 fresh egg; 1 large
wineglass of port wine; 1 pony of best brandy; 3 or
3 lumps of ice. Break the egg into the glass, put
in the sugar and lastly the port wine, brandy and
ice. Shake up thoroughly and strain into a medium
sized goblet. Grate a little nutmeg on top before
serving.
  Cocktail, Club.—Fill mixing goblet Y^ full of fine
ice; 2 dashes gum; 3 dashes orange hitters; 1 dash
chartreuse; % drink Italian vermouth; % drink Old
Tom gin; stir well and serve with cherry.

  Cocktail, Coronation.—(Use mixing glass.) Fill
half with cracked ice; 3 dashes maraschino; 3 dashes
orange bitters; 1 pony French vermouth; 1 gill dry
sherry. Stir well, strain into cocktail glass, add
olive and twist lemon peel on top.

     Cocktail, Derby.—(This drink, arranged by E. G.
De Gasteaux, of Canal and Vine Streets. Cincinnati.
O., was awarded third prize in the Police Gazette
Bartenders' Contest for 1903.) (Use mixing glass.)
2 dashes pench and hitters; 1 sprig fresh mint; 1
jigger Gordon gin. Stir and strain into cocktail
glass; serve with olive.

  Cocktail, Du Barry.—1 dash Boonekamp hitters;
2 dashes absinthe; 3 dashes gUm syrup; 1 pony
French vermouth; 1 pony of dry gin, ice. Serve in
cocktail glass with Y slice of orange.
     Cocktail, Irish.-—(Use large bar glass.)   Fill glass
with shaved ice; 3 dashes of absinthe; 1 dash mara
schino; 1 dash Curacoa; 2 dashes hitters; 1 wineglass
of Irish whisky. Stir well with spoon, and after
straining in cocktail glass, put in medium olive and
squeeze lemon peel on top.

     Cocktail, J. P. C.—Y^ Nicholson gin;         French
vermouth: put one slice of orange in glass and fill
with shaved ice, shake well and strain into cocktail
glass.
                               22
           BARTENDERS'           MANUAL

   Cocktail, Lemon.—Fill mixing glass % full line
ice; 1 teaspoonful syrup; 1 or 2 dashes orange bit
ters; 1 or 2 dashes Peychaud hitters;    wineglass
Old Crow whisky; juice of half a lemon; stir well,'
strain into a cooled cocktail glass, with fruit, if
desired.
  Cocktail, Mint.—(Use large bar glass.) Crush 3
sprigs mint, fresh; 2 dashes orange bitters; 2 dashes
syrup; 1 dash absinthe; 1 jig'ger whisky; cracked ice;
1 squirt seltzer. Mi.x with spoon, strain in cocktail
glass and serve.
  Cocktail, Montana.—(Use large bar glass.)         Y\
full of shaved ice; 2 dashes anisette; 2 dashes bit
ters; Yi wineglass French vermouth. Stir with
spoon, strain in cocktail glass, and serve, after
squeezing piece of lemon peel on top.
  Cocktail, Philippino.—Press 1 olive in glass; 2
dashes pepsin bitters; 1-5 French vermouth; 1-5
brandy, 3-5 Plymouth gin; fill glass with chipped ice;
stir well.   Serve in fancy glass.
  Cocktail, Prairie.—1 teaspoonful white vinegar; 1
fresh egg; dash of pepper and salt; 3 drops Tabasco;
teaspoonful of Worcestershire.
  Cocktail, Ping Pong.—(This recipe, arranged by
James E. Bennett, of the Broken Heart Cafe, 16
South Broadway, St. Louis, Mo., won the Police
Gazette Bartenders' Medal for 1903.) (Use mixing
glass. 3 dashes lemon juice;    jigger sloe gin;
jigger Cream-Yvette. Fill glass with fine ice, mix
and strain in cocktail glass; add cherry.
  Cocktail, Princeton.—(Use mixing glass.) 2 dashes
orange bitters; -Lj Tom gin; fill with ice; strain into
cocktail glass; add 1 good dash of port wine care
fully and let it settle to the bottom before serving;
lemon on top.
  Cocktail, Saratoe-a.—(A large bar glass.) 14 glass
of fine-shaved ice; 3 dashes of pineapple syrup; 2
or. 3 dashes of bitters; 3 dashes of maraschino; 54
glass of fine old brandy. Mix well with a spoon
and place 2 or 3 strawberries in a fancy glass; strain
it, twist a piece of lemon peel over it; top it off
with a squirt of champagne.
  Cocktail, Scotch.—Use mixing glass half full of
cracked ice; 3 dashes of gum syrup; 2 dashes of
maraschino; 2 dashes of orange bitters; 1 pony
Scotch whisky; 1 pony French vermouth; stir well;
strain in cocktail glass; add sherry and twist lemon
peel.
  Cocktail, Sherry.—(Large bar glass         half   full
cracked ice.) I dash Angostura; 3 dashes syrup; 3
dashes Curacoa; Y jigger vermouth; 1 jigger sherry
wine; stir well with spoon; strain in cocktail glass
and serve with cherries.
                         23
       BARTENDERS'                    MANUAL

  Cocktail,   Southern    Club        Manhattan.—(Mixing
glass.) % full shaved ice; 1 dash syrup; 4 daehes
Curacoa; 2 dashes maraschino; 2 dashes Peychaud
bitters; 1 small jigger Italian vermouth; 1 small
jigger rye whisky.     Strain into cool cocktail glass,
squeeze orange peel on top and serve.              Don't put
peel in glass.
  Cocktail, Speedway.—4 dashes absinthe; 2 dashes
maraschino; 3 dashes orange hitters; 1 wineglass
Irish whisky; fill mixing glass with shaved ice; stir
contents well; strain off into cocktail glass; twist
lemon skin on top and serve.
  Cocktail, Star.—(Use large bar glass.)            Sd .glass
of shaved ice; 1 or 2 dashes gum; 1 dash Curacoa;
3 dashes hitters; fd wine.glass French vermouth:
wineglass applejack.     Stir with spoon, and after
straining in cocktail glass, serve after squeezing
lemon peel on top.
  Cocktail, Trilby.—(Use large           bar   glass.)    Fill
glass with shaved ice; 2 dashes absinthe; 2 dashe«
orange hitters; 2 dashes Parfait d'Armour; )d wine
glass Scotch whisky; Id wineglass Italian vermouth.
Stir with spoon, strain in cocktail glass, put in
cherries, squeeze lemon peel on top and serve.
  Cocktail,   Turf.—(Large       bar     glass.)    Id   glass
.shaved ice; 2 dashes orange hitters; 2 dashes mara
schino; 2 dashes absinthe; Id wineglass French ver
mouth; Id wineglass Plymouth gin. Stir with spoon,
strain in cocktail glass, put in olive and serve.
  Cocktail, Washington.— (Use small wineglass.) Id-
pony brandy; 1 pony French vermouth; 3 dashes
Angostura bitters; 3 dashes gum syrup.
  Cocktail, Yale.—3 dashes orange hitters: 1 dash
Boker's hitters; add a portion of Tom gin, ice; mix.
strain into cocktail glass; add a squirt of syphon;
lemon on top.
  Cold Ruby Punch.—2 quarts of Batavia arrack; 2
quarts of port wine; .5 pints of green tea; 2 pounds
of loaf sugar; juice of 12 lemons; 1 pineapple, cut
in small pieces.     Sweeten to taste and ice before
serving. ^
  Colorado Bracer.—(Large bar glass.)              1 spoonful
sugar: juice of 1 lime; Id jigger absinthe; Id jigger
Scotch whisky.     Fill with ice; shake well, strain in
fizz glass and fill with seltzer or imported soda.
  Cordial Lemonade.—Make a plain lemonade: orna
ment with fruits in season; then put in slowly Id
pony of any cordial.
  Cosmopolitan Claret Punch.—(A goblet.)                  1-lalf
fill with chopped ice; _1 Id pony brandy; Id table
spoon of sugar: fill with claret.           Shake well and
dress with berries and fruit.
                                 24
             BARTENDERS'        MANUAL
  Crimean Cup a La Marmora.—(Use a bowl for
mixing.) 1 pint of orgeat syrup; % pint of Cognac;
14 pint of maraschino; 14 P'nt of Jamaica rum; J
bottle of champagne; 1 bottle of soda; 3 ounces of
sugar; 2 lemons and 2 oranges, cut in slices, and a
few slices of pineapple.    Stir up well with ladle,
then place it into your dish filled with ice.

  Curacoa.—6 ounces of very thin orange peel; 1
pint of whisky; 1 pint of clarified syrup; 1 drachm
powdered alum; 1 drachm carbonate of potash. Place
the orange peel in a bottle which will hold a quart,
with the whisky; cork tightly and let the contents
remain for 12 days, shaking the bottle frequently.
Then strain out the peel, add the syrup; shake well
and let it stand for 3 days. Take out a teacupful
into a mortar and beat up with the alum and potash;
when well mixed pour it back into the bottle and let
it remain for a week.      The Curacoa will then be
perfectly clear.

  Curacoa Punch.—(A large bar glass.) Jd table
spoon of sugar; 3 or 4 dashes of lemon jnice: 1
wineglass of brandy; 1 pony'Curacoa (red); (d pony
Jamaica rum. Dress with fruits as usual. Fill with
fine ice and sip through a straw.
     Currant Brandy.—Take 1 quart of black or red
currants, and fill up with 1 quart of brandy.    In two
months strain, and add sugar to taste.

  Currant Shrub.—(Use a bowl for mixing; general
rule for preparing.) 1 quart of currant juice; lyi
lbs. of loaf sugar. Boil it gently 8 or 10 minutes,
skimming it well; take it off, and when lukewarm!
add (4 gill of brandy to every pint of shrub.     Bottle
tight. Mix a little shrub with ice water and you
will have a delicious drink. Shrub may be made of
cherry or raspberry juice by this method, but the
quantity of sugar must be reduced.

  Dizzy Sour.—(Use large bar glass.)            Mash (4
lemon; 2 spoonfuLs of powdered sugar; .34 full of
fine ice; 1 jigger rye whisky; 3 dashes benedictine.
Shake well, strain in a sour glass, put in a piece of
pineapple,' float % jigger Jamiaca rum on top and
serve.


  Eagle Highball.— (Use small bar glass.)        1 lump
of ice; 3 or 4 dashes lemon; 1 slice lemon neel; 2 to
4 dashes orange bitters; 1 jigger Tom gin. ' Fill
glass with seltzer and serve.

  Egg Milk Punch.— (A large bar glass.) 1 egg. .34
tablespoon of sugar; 1 wineglass of brandy; 1 pony
of St. Croix rum; Vo glass of fine ice; fill up with
milk.    Use the shaker in mixing, which must be done
thoroughly to a cream. Strain; grate a little nutmeg
on    ton.
                           25
        BARTENDERS'              MANUAL
  Egg Nogg (Plain).—1 tablespoon of sugar; 1 fresh
egg; Vt glass of line ice; 1 wineglass of whisky; fill
up with milk. Shake thoroughly in an "egg nogg"
shaker and strain. Grate a little nutmeg on top.
  Egg Phosphate.—^Fill mixing glass % full fine ice;
1 teaspoonful of sugar; 1 teaspoonful of acid phos
phate; 1 egg.    Fill glass with water; shake well;
strain into lemonade glass and serve.

  Egg Sour.—1 tablespoon of powdered sugar; 3
lumps of ice; 1 egg; juice of 1 lemon. Shake thor
oughly; serve with straw; nutmeg grated on top.

  Elk's Fizz.—(Large size bar glass.) J/2 lemon; 1
dessert spoonful sugar; 1 jigger rye whisky; Yz jig
ger port wine; white of 1 egg. Shake well and
strain in small fizz glass; fill with fizz and serve
with sliced pineapple.
  English Royal Punch.—(Use a howl for mixing
for a small party.) 1 pint of hot green tea;   pint
of best brandy; ^2 pint of Jamaica rum; 1 wineglass
of Curacoa (red); 1 wineglass of arrack; juice of
2 limes; 1 lemon, cut in slices; Yz lb. of sugar.
                                               Mix
this thoroughly with a ladle, and add 4 eggs, the
whites only, and drink this as hot as possible. If
the punch is too strong, add more green tea to
taste, and if not hot enough, place the entire mixture
over the fire and have it heated, hut not boiled.

  English Bishop.—(Use a small punch bowl.) i
quart of the best port wine; 1 orange (stuck pretty
well with cloves). Roast the orange liefore a fire,
and when sufficiently brown cut in quarters and
pour over the port wine (previously made hot); add
sugar to taste, and let the mixture simmer over the
fire for half an hour.

  Empire Punch.—(Use an extra large bowl.) Rub
the peel of 4 fine lemons, and also the peel of 2
oranges, until it has absorbed all the yellow part
of the lemon and orange; 1% lbs. of lump sugar;
1 pineapple, cut in slices; 12 fine oranges, cut in
slices; 1 box of strawberries; 3 bottles Apollinaris
water. Mix these ingredients well and add: Y2 gill
maraschino;      gill of Curacoa (red); Y2 gill of
benedictine;   gill of Jamaica rum; 1 bottle of
French brandy; 0 bottles of champagne; 4 bottles
of Tokay; 2 bottles of Madeira; 4 bottles of Chateau
Margeaus.    Mix this well with a ladle; then strain
rhrough a sieve into a clean bowl and surround the
bowl with ice; dress the edge with some leaves and
fruit, and ornament the punch in a fancy manner
with grapes, oranges, pineapples and strawberries.

  Faivre's Pousse Cafe.—(Use a sherry wine
glass.) U; glass benedictine; % glass red Curacoa;
% glass kirschwasser or brandy; 2 or 3 drops bitters.
                           26
            BARTENDERS'            MANUAL
        Fancy Brandy Cocktail, No. 1.—(A large bar
  glass.) Fill your glass  full of line ice; 2 or 3
  dashes of gum syrup; 2 dashes of Angostura bit
  ters; 1 or 2 dashes of Curacoa; 1 wineglass brandy.
  Stir well with a spoon. Strain into a fancy cocktail
  Tlass. Twist a "iece of lemon neel on top. A squirt
  of champagne will add to the delicacy of flavor.
    Fancy Brandy Cocktail, No. 2.—(A large bar
 glass.)  2 or 3 dashes of gum syrup; 2 dashes of
 maraschino; 2 dashes of Angostura bitters; l wine
 glass brandy. Twist a piece of lemon peel in the
 mixture, expressing the oil; fill glass ]/2 full of fine
 ice. Shake well and strain into a fancy cocktail
 glass, the rim of which has been moistened with
 lemon juice.

   Fancy Gin and Whisky Cocktails.—Prepared the
 same as the Brandy No. 2, substituting their re
 spective liquors for brandy.

   Fedora.—(A large bar glass.) 1 pony of the best
 brandy; 1 pony of Curacoa;           pony of Jamaica
 rum;     pony of Bourbon; 1 tablespoon of sugar,
 dissolved in a little water; 1 slice of lemon; fill the
 tumijler with fine ice.   Shake well and ornament with
 berries or small pieces of orange; serve with a
 straw.

   Flip, Pan-American.—(Use large bar glass.) 2
spoonfuls powdered sugar; 3 dashes Orgeat syrup;
1 pony__creme de menthe; 1 pony whisky; plenty of
fine ic? Fill with milk and shake well. Serve with
cherry.

  Fishing Punch.—(A large bar glass.) i tablespoon
of sugar; 1 or 2 dashes of lemon juice; 1 or 2 dashes
of lime juice and dissolve in a little water; fill glass
with fine ice; 1 wineglass of St. Croix rum; 1 pony
of brandy. Stir with a spoon; dress the top with
fruit, and serve with a straw.       This drink can be
put in bottles for the fisherman to take along so
•that    he will lose no time.

   Fox Flip.—(Use large bar glass.)          full shaved
ice; juice      lemon; 3 barspoons pulverized sugar- i
jigger whisky (or gin); l egg.         Shake well and
strain into thin lemonade glass and fill with ginger
ale.

  Fox River Toddy.—(Use 1 toddy glass.) Loaf
sugar; 1 lump ice; 1 piece of lemon; 2 dashes German
bitters; 3 dashes creme de cacao; wineglass of
whisky. Stir well and serve.

  Frapped Cafe Royal.—It consists of        of black
coffee and Jd brandy, frapped in a cooler, and drank
while the mixture is yet in a semi-frozen state. It
is very potent.
                             27
         BARTENDERS'                MANUAL

     Fruit Lemonade.—Fill mixing glass % full fine
ice; 1 tablespoonful of powdered sugar; the juice of
1 lemon; mash         doz. strawberries or any berries
in season; fill glass with water. Shake the above in
gredients thoroughly and strain into a lemonade
glass with fruit and serve.

     General Harrison Egg Nogg.—(A large bar glass.)
3 or 4 small pieces of ice; 1 fresh egg; 1 tablespoon
of sugar; fill with cider.      Shake well and strain;
serve with a    little nutmeg on top.

     Gin Cocktail.—(A large bar glass.)        2 or 3 dashes
of gum syrup; 2 dashes of Angostura bitters; 1
wineglass gin; 1 or 2 dashes of Curacoa, or absinthe,
as the person prefers; fill the glass with fine ice.
Stir up well; strain into a cocktail glass; squeeze a
piece of lemon peel on top.
     Gin Crusta.—Is prepared same         as    the    Brandy
Crusta, substituting gin for brandy.

  Gin Daisy.—Is prepared in the same manner as
the Brandy Daisy, substituting gin for brandy.

   Gin Fix.—(A large bar glass.) >4 tablespoon of
sugar in a little seltzer; >4 pony of pineapple syrup;
fill glass with fine ice; 1 wineglass of Holland gin.
Stir    well.   Dress   with   fruits   and    serve   with    a
straw.

     Gin Fizz.—(A large bar glass.)       14 tablespoon of
sugar; 3 or 4 dashes of lemon juice; 1 wineglass of
Old Tom gin; put all in the glass, half full of fine ice.
Stir well with a spoon; strain into a fizz glass. Fill
up with seltzer or vichy water and do not fail to
drink quickly.
  Gin Flip.—(A large bar glass.) 1 tablespoon of
sugar, dissolved in a little seltzer water; 1 wineglass
of Holland gin; fill glass )4 full of fine ice.          Shake
well and strain into a fancy glass.

   Gin Julep.—(A large bar glass.) Fill with fine
 ice;    tablespoon of sugar;     wineglass of water;
 3 or 4 sprigs of mint, pressed as in mint julep to
 extract the essence;      wineglass of Flolland gin.
 Stir well, and dress with fruits in season.
   Gin Punch.—(A large bar glass.)              2 tablespoons
 of white sugar; 1 pony of seltzer;              wineglass of
 Flolland gin; 4 or 5 dashes of lemon juice; fill glass
 with fine ice.    Shake well.      Dress with 2 slices of
 orange; Rj slice of pineapple, and berries; serve with
 a    straw.

  Gin Sling.—1 lump of sugar, dissolved in a little
 water; 1 lump of ice; 1 wineglass of gin. Stir, and
 grate a little nutmeg on top.
                               28
            BARTENDERS'              MANUAL

   Gin Smash.—(.A. large bar glass.)    ],< glass of
fine ice;    tablespoon of sugar; 2 or 3 sprigs of
mint, pressed as in mint julep; 1 wineglass of Hol
land gin.       Stir well; strain into a sour glass; dress
with fruit.
  Gin Sour.—(A small bar glass.) P2 tablespoon of
sugar; 4 or 5 dashes of lemon juice; 1 squirt seltzer
water; -Lj glass of fine ice; 1 wineglass of Holland
gin. Stir well; strain into a sour glass; dress with a
little fruit.
  Gin Sangaree.—teaspoon of sugar, dissolved in
a little water; 1 wineglass of Holland gin; 1 lump
of ice. Stir with a spoon; put about a teaspoon of
sherry on top.
  Gin and Calamus.—(A wliiskv glass.)             Steep 2
or 3 pieces of calamus root, cut in small bits, in a
bottle of gin until the essence is extracted. To
serve you simply hand out tlie glass together with
the bottle, allowing the person to help himself.
  Gin and Milk.—(A whisky glass.) Put out a
glass and bar spoon with the bottle of gin, allow
ing the person to help himself; after he has done
so, fill up the glass with ice-cold milk.
  Gin and Molasses.—(A whisky glass.)           Cover the
bottom of the glass with a little gin.          Drop in 1
tablespoon of New Orleans molasses, then place
the bottle of gin to the person, allowing him to
help himself. After dropping in the molasses, put
a small bar spoon in the glass. Hot water must
be used to clean the glass afterward.
  Gin and Pine.—Take some fine slivers of pine
wood from the center of a green pine log, steep
them in a bottle of gin to extract the flavor; in
about 2 hours the gin will be ready to serve, which
is done in the same manner as dispensing gin and
tansy.
   Gin and Tansy.—(A whisky glass.) This is an
old fashioned but excellent tonic, and is prepared
bv steeping a bunch of tansy in a bottle of Holland
gin, which extracts the essence. Tn servin.g, yon
simply set the glass, with a lump of ice dropped into
it, before the person, allowing him to help himself
from the bottle containing the preparation.
  Gin and Wormwood.— fA small bar glass.) ^ or
6 sprigs of wormwood placed in a quart bottle of
gin to extract the essence. Place before the person
a small bar glass (dropping a piece of ice therein)
and the bottle, allowing him to help himself. This
is a very old drink, used principally in country
villages.
  Glasgow Flip.—Beat 1 egg thorou.ghly: add the
iuice of 1 lemon; 1/ tablespoon of ijowdered sugar:
balance cold ginger ale.       Stir well.
                              29
             BARTENDERS' MANUAL
     Goblet Fizz—14 of a lemon maced in glass; 2
dashes gum svrup;         jigger port wine; /a jigpr
bourbon whisky; 3 dashes Jamaica rum; 2 dashes
maraschino; 54 jiggGr" Rhine wine; fill gfass with
shaved ice; stir well; strain in goblet; fill with
seltzer, and serve.

     Golden Fizz.—1 egg (yolk only); 1 tablespoon of
sugar; 2 or 3 dashes of lemon juice; 1 wineglass of
Old Tom gin or whisky; Va glass of fine ice. Use
the shaker well; strain into a hzz glass, hill up
w ith seltzer or vichy and drink immediately.
  Grenadine Punch.—(In a punch goblet.)     full
of ice; 3 dashes lemon juice; large spoonful ot
grenadine syrup; 54 jigger of brandy; stir and
dress with fruit.

 Gum Syrup.-14 lbs. of loaf sugar; 1 gallon water.
Boil together for 5 minutes, and add water to make
lip 2 gallons.

 • Half-and-Half.—(A large ale glass.) This is a
common English drink a.nd means half porter and
half ale, but in this country we use half old ale
and half new. It is always best to ask the person
how he desires it.

  Hari-Kari.—Make a whisky sour large enough to
half fill a brandy glass or tumbler when strained,
and fill with seltzer or vichy to suit the party.
Dress with fruits in season.

  Highlander Highball.—(Highball glass.) 1 piece
of ice; 1 teaspoonful pineapple syrup; 1 teaspoonful
lemon'juice; % wineglass Tokay or Sweet Catawba;
% wineglass Scotch whisky. Fill with seltzer or
Apollinaris water and serve.

      Hock Cobbler.—Same as Catawba, using Hock
wine instead.


      Hoffman Highball.—(Use large glass.) 1 lump
    of ice, a jigger of J. P. C. Scotch and a bottle of
    plain soda.

      Hoffman House Punch.—(For a party of six or
    niore.)—(Use punch bowl and 1 large piece clear
    ice). The juice of 2 lemons; the, juice of 2 oranges;
    54 jigger St. Oroix rum; 1. jigger maraschino; 1
    jigger white Ciiracoa; 2 jiggers brandy; 2 quarts
    champagne; 1 pint burgundy.       Add ciiiart .\polli-
    naris.   Before serving sweeten according to taste
    and fruit well.
                             30
          BARTENDERS'               MANUAL

   Horse's Neck.—(Use larg-e fizz glass.)     Peel
 lemon in 1 long string, place in glass so one end
 hangs over; 3 or 4 lumps broken ice; fill with im
 ported ginger ale.
   Hot Arrack Punch.—(A hot water glass.)        1 tea-
 spoonful of sugar; 1 or 2 dashes of lemon juice; 54
 wineglass arrack; fill up with hot water.    Stir well;
 grate a little nutmeg on top.
   Hot Gin Sling.—(A hot-water glass.) 1 teaspoon
 of sugar; 1 wineglass Holland gin; fill up with hot
 water.   Stir well, grate a little nutmeg on top.
   Hot Irish Punch.—(A hot water glass.) 1 or 2
 lumps of sugar; 1 or 2 dashes of lemon juice; 1
 wineglass of Irish whisky; fill up with hot water.
 Stir well; place a slice of lemon on top; grate a
 little nutmeg.
   Hot Lemonade.—(A large bar glass.)          1 table
 spoon of sugar; 14 lemon, squeezed well; fill the
 glass with hot water. Stir well. Pour a little hot
 water into the glass, and shake around it before
 making the drink to prevent the glass from cracking.
   Hot Locomotive.—(A large bar glass.)          1 yolk
 of egg; ;4 tablespoon of sugar and 1 pony of honey,
mixed well together; J4 pony of Curacoa; 114 glass
of Burgundy or claret, boiled. Mix all thoroughly
together; place a thin slice of lemon on top, with a
sprinkle of cinnamon.
  Hot Milk Punch.—(A large bar glass.)          1 table
spoon of sugar; 14 wineglass of St. Croi.x rum; 14
wineglass of brandy; fill the glass with hot milk.
Mix well with a spoon; grate nutmeg on top.          Al
ways mix with a spoon.          Never use the shaker to
this.
  Hot Rum.—(A hot-water glass.) 1 teaspoon of
sugar; a small lump of butter; 1 wineglass of Jama
ica rum. Fill the glass with hot water; stir well;
omit spices.
  Hot Scotch Whisky Sling.—( A hot water glass.)
1 wineglass of Scotch whisky; 1 lump of sugar; a
piece of lemon peel; fill the glass 54 fu'l of boil
ing water; grate nutmeg on top.
  Hot Spiced Rum.—(A hot water glass.) 1 tea
spoon of sugar; ] teaspoon of mixed whole allspice
and cloves, and a piece of butter about the size of a
small marble; 1 wineglass of Jamaica rum.        Fill
glass with hot water; mix well.
  How to Serve a Pony Glass of Brandy.—(Use a
pony glass.) The latest style of serving a pony of
Ijrandy is to take a whisky tumbler upside down in
the left hand, place it over the pony glass of brandy,
then reverse the glass, as well as the pony glass
containing the brandy, so as to have the stem of
the pony glass on top, and the brandy at the bot
tom of the whisky glass.
                           31
          BARTENDERS'           MANUAL
  Hot Whisky Punch.—(A hot whisky glass.) The
juice of Vz lemon; 1 or 2 lumps of sugar, dissolved
in 1 wineglass of hot water; 2 wineglasses of Scotch
or Irish whisky; fill glass with boiling water and
place on top a thin slice of lemon or a piece of the
peel. Some grate a little nutmeg on top. Always
place ice before the person, and allow a spoon to
remain in the drink, in order that the partaker of
the beverage can help himself to ice should the mix
ture he too hot for him.

  Imperial Egg Nogg.—(A large bar glass.) 1
tablespoon of sugar; 1 fresh egg; Mi glass of fine
ice; 1 wineglass of brandy;    wineglass of Jamaica
rum; fill up with rich milk. Shake thoroughly in an
"egg nogg" shaker and strain. Grate a little nut
meg on top if desired. In hot Egg Nogg use hot
milk and omit the ice.

  Imperial Punch.—(To make one quart.) 1 bottle
claret; 1 bottle soda water; 4 teaspoonfuls pow
dered sugar, dissolved in a little of the soda; I4
teaspoonful grated nutmeg; 1 liquer glass mara
schino; about     pound ice; 3 slices cucumber rind.
Put all ingredients in pitcher and mix well.
  Invisible Gin Highball.—(Use highball glass.) 1
piece of ice; 1 teaspoonful of alricotine; 1 teaspoon
ful lemon juice; 1 teaspoonful pineapple syrup; 1
wineglass dry gin. Stir thoroughly and fill glass
with ginger ale.
  Irish Whisky Skin.—(Use bar glass.) 1 lump of
sugar; 1 wineglass Irish whisky; 1 piece lemon rind.
Rinse' glass in hot water; put in sugar; fill glass
half full boiling water, add whisky <md stir.   Serve
with spoon.
  Italian Wine Lemonade.—(A large bar glass.)          1
tablespoon of sugar, dissolved in a little water; 4 or
5 dashes of lemon juice;          glass of fine ice; 1
wineglass of sherry, claret or port wine; fill up
with water, stir well; dress top with fruits, and serve
with a    straw.

  Jamaica Rum Sour.—(A large bar glass.)       glass
of fine ice;  tablespoon of sugar; 2 or 3 dashes of
lemon juice; Yz wineglass of seltzer; 1 wineglass of
Jamaica rum. Stir well, and strain into a sour
glass; dress with fruit.
  Japanese Cocktail.—1 tablespoon of orgeat syrup;
1 or 2 dashes of Angostura bitters; 1 wineglass of
brandy; fill glass half full of fine ice. Stir well and
strain.

  Jeffries Punch.—(Use large bar glass half full fiujj
ice.) 3 dashes of syrup; 1 of lemon; Yz bar spoon
Orangine; 1 glass of old rye; shake well; strain
 into fancy glass and decorate.
                           32
           BARTENDERS'              MANUAL
   Jersey Cocktail.—(A large bar glass.)       table
 spoon of sugar; 4 or 5 pieces of ice; 2 or 3 dashes
 of bitters (Angostura); fill up with cider. Twist a
 piece of lemon peel on top, or use only 1 wineglass
 of cider and strain into a cocktail glass.
   "Jersey Lily" Pousse Cafe.—(A pony glass.)         ^
 of chartreuse;     of brandy. Pour brandy in care
 fully, so as not to disturb the chartreuse, and serve.
   Jersey Sour.—(A small bar glass.)       Take 1 large
 teaspoon of powdered sugar, dissolved in a little
 water; 2 or 3 dashes of lemon juice; 1 wineglass of
 applejack; fill the glass with ice. Shake up, and
 strain into a claret glass.    Ornament with berries in
 season.



   John Collins Gin.—(An e.xtra large bar glass.) 1
 tablespoon of sugar; about 5 dashes of lemon juice;
 1 wineglass of gin; 5-or 0 small bits of ice; 1 bottle
 of plain soda.    Mix well; remove the ice.
   Kirschwasser Punch.—(A large bar glass.)
 tablespoon of sugar; 2 or 3 dashes of lemon juice;
3 or 4 dashes of chartreuse; 1 wineglass of kir
 schwasser;       glass of fine ice. Dress with fruits;
 serve with a straw.                                      '

  Knickerbein. (A sherry glass.) % wine glass of
vanilla cordial; 1 yolk of egg; which carefully cover
with benedictine; % wineglass kummel; 2 drops of
Angostura or Boker's bitters.         The same rule is
here applied as in making Pousse Cafe, viz; Keep
colors separate and the different portions from run
ning into each other.

   Knickerbocker.—(A large bar glass.) 2 table
spoons of raspberry syrup; juice of '/i a lemon- a
slice of pineapple and orange; 1 wineglass of St
Croix rum; 'A wineglass Curacoa; fill glass with
fine ice. Stir well, adding fruit in season, and im
bibe through a straw.

  Lemonade.—Slice very thin, 3 lemons, to which
add   lb- of white lump sugar. Mix well together
and throw in 1 gallon of water.

  Lemonade.—(A large bar glass.) lyi tablespoon
of sugar; juice of y2 lemon; fill .>4 with fine ice
balance with water. Shake well. Some add a table
spoon of raspberry or strawberry syrup, dash i n g
with port wine and dressing with fruit.

  Lincoln Club Punch.— (For a party of 25.) Take
4 bottles of champagne; 1 bottle of pale sherry;
1 bottle of Cognac; 1 bottle of Sauterne; 1 pine
apple, sliced and cut in small pieces; 4 lemons,
sliced.    Sweeten to taste, mix, cool.
                           33
           BARTENDERS'            MANUAL
  Manhattan Club Oyster Cocktail.—Take the juice
of k2 a lemon, strain into a large goblet; 1 or 3
clashes of Tabasco sauce; 1 teaspoon of pepper
sauce; trace of vinegar; a pinch of salt; a little red
pepper; slightly larger cpiantity of white pepper.
This entire array forms but the seasoning for the
liquor of V2 a dozen freshly opened succulent Blue
Point oysters, which are next added to the contents
of the glass, and completes the cocktail.
  Mamie Taylor.— (In highball glass.) One lump of                    j
ice; dash of lemon juice; drink of Scotch whisky;
fill up with ginger ale.
  Madame Sherry Fizz.—Juice of lemon; small
spoonful sugar; dash of orange flower water; whole               '
egg; drink sloe gin. Shake, strain and fizz.                     I
  Manhattan Cocktail No. 1.—In mixing glass V2 full              '
of fine ice; dash of syrup; dash of Angostura bit
ters; % jigger of French vermouth, % whisky. Stir
and strain; serve with a cherry.
  Manhattan Cocktail, No. 2.—3 dashes of Curacoa;
2 dashes of Angostura bitters;                 wineglass _of
whisky:       wineglass of Italian vermouth; fine ice.
Stir well and strain into a cocktail glass.
  Martinez Cocktail.—Prepare same as Manhattan,
using Italian vermouth, orange bitters and gin.
Omit all syrup from the above when ordered dry
and serve with olive.
   Maraschino Punch.—(Use large bar glass.) 1 tea-
spoonful of powdered sugar, dissolved in a little
water; 1 wineglass of brandy; 3 dasbes of arrack;
 y2 pony glass of maraschino; the juice of '/2_ a
small lemon.    Fill the tumbler with shaved ice,
shake well, ornament with fruit and berries in sea
 son, and serve with a straw.
   Medford Rum Punch.—(A large bar glass.) Fill
 glass with fine ice; -pt tablespoon of sugar; 3 or 3
 dashes of lemon juice; 1)4 glass of Medford rup;
 1 dash of Jamaica rum.           Stir well.     Dress with
 fruits.   Serve with a straw.
   Medford Rum Smash.—(A large bar glass.)                 '/$
 tablespoon of sugar, dissolved in a little water; 3 or
 3 sprigs of mint, pressed to extract the essence; Yz
 glass of fine ice; 1 wineglass of Medford rum.
 stir well; strain; dress with fruit, replacing mint
 leaves upward.
   Medford Rum Sour.—(A large bar glass.)
 tablespoon of sugar; 3 or 4 dashes of lemon juice;
 1 dash of seltzer from syphon; 1 wineglass Med
 ford rum; fill glass half full with ice.          Strain and
 dress with fruits.
    Metropolitan Cocktail.—(A small wineglass.) Yz
  pony of brandy; 1 pony of French vermouth; 3
  dashes of Angostura bitters; 3 dashes of gum syrup.
                             34
                                            Particular People
                                                 Patronize

          OHNSTON                                BONDED
                                           WHISKIES
                      UNT                        ONLY
                      .CHICAGO.           Wines (hat are Pure
  724 Milwaukee Avenue                 522 S. Halsted Street
  514 Milwaukee Avenue                 47(11 S. Ashlaud Avenue
  1590 Milwaukee Avenue                3182 Elston Avenue
  814-816 W. 63rd Street               1724 Loonils Street

  We Deliver Everywhere.                   Phone Monroe 2643


  Leading" I "La Picciola"                 Phone Central 1733
  Jlrands f "St. Gerniaitie"

                      OUR      FRIEND

         I. E. THEUSCH
            Clear Havana Cigars
  Fairbank Building, s,'.f„,?waba''sh''Ave'!           Chicago

  MATTHEWS SODA WATER CO.
       2023 SOUTH CLARK ST., CHICAGO
Carbonated Water in JO Gal. Steel Tanks.

 We Furnish Siphons and Siphon Fillers Free of Charge


  THE        MAKE          THEY           ASK        FOR



        MARCUS RUBEN  BAR      MEN'S




        Jackets &Aprons
 650 South State Street,                     -    Chicago
JOS. K. KIRBY     Tel. Franklin 1515      WALTER G. SMITH



The Illinois Sporting Goods Co.
                       ( NOT INC.)

             Dealers and -Manufacturers of

     CLUB ROOM FURNITURE, CARDS,
     DICE       AND    ELECTRICAL            GOODS.

Marine BIdg , 3fd Floor, (36 W. Lake St., Chicago
J. C. WILSON                           A. P. QREBN
  President                        Secretary & Treasurer

                    TELEPHONES
              Calumet 157     North 332


   Excelsior Laundry Company
                     Main Office
66 East TwentySecond St.                      Chicago

L. K. MADISON                            H. B. BOLDIN
                 TEL.   NORTH     1250



  The Madison Catering Co.
                Buffets, Parties and
                        Picnics

3<S-3'7 Locust Street,                         Chicago


   GROMMES & ELSON
         Cigar tDanufacturers
                      CHICAGO


  POP CORN FOR THE BAR
      CHICAGO POP CORN WORKS
              2729 Cottage Grove Ave.
 Telephone Calumet 2487                       Chicago


 PHONE                                             PHONE

 YARDS                                               AUTO-

                                                   78-141




         IReal (Berman Beer

 40th and           BUTLER               STREETS
         BARTENDERS'              MANUAL
   Milk and Seltzer.—(A medium sized bar glass )
 In serr'ing' this drink, which is strictly temperance
 half fill the glass with seltzer, and the rest with'
 milk; if it is done otherwise you will have nothin"-
 hut foam in your glass, which would cause delay.
   Milk Punch.—(A large bar glass.) % glass of fine
 ice; -U tablespoon of sugar; 1 wineglass of brandy;
 1 wineglass of St. Croix rum;      wineglass of Ja
 maica rum; fill up with fresh milk. Mix well to
 gether, strain, and serve with a little nutmeg on
 top.

   Milk Shake.—Fill mixing glass % full fine ice- 1
 tahlespoonful of sugar; 1 egg. Fill glass with milk
 shake well and strain into lemonade glass; grate a
 little nutmeg on top.

   Miner's Delight.—(Fizz glass.) No ice:; 3 dashes
 syrup; 2 dashes .'\ngostura ; 3 dashes vermouth; 2
 dashes absinthe; 3 dashes Orange Curacoa;        jigger
 whisky; white of an egg; stir thoroughly; fill ^lass
 slowly with seltzer; rest    spoonful of powdered
 sugar on glass and let customer stir same; drink
 immediately it fizzes.

   Mint Julep.—(A large bar glass.) i tablespoon of
 sugar, dissolved m 14 wineglass of water- 3 or 4
 sprigs of mint, which you press well in the sugar
 and water to extract the flavor: then add 114 wine
 glass of brandy, after which withdraw the mint and
 stir the ingredients well; then fill the glass with fine
 ice and insert the mint again, stems downward-
 lepes above. Dress tastily with fruits in season'
 Give a dash of Jamaica rum, a sprinkle of white
 sugar, and serve with a straw placed across the
 top of glass.                                             ^
   Mississippi Punch.--(A large bar glass ) 1 table
 spoon of .sugar dissolved in f/, wineglass of water"
•2 or 3 dashes of lemon juice; J4 wineglass of Bour:
 bon whisky;     wineglass of Jamaica rum; 1 wine
 glass of brandy: fill goblet with fine ice. Dress tm.
 with pieces of orange, pineapple, etc.            '       '
   Mint Sloe.—(Take a fancy highball glass) Pi,t
 in 3 or 4 sprigs of mint; 1 lump of ice; I'dash of
          cVKTif
   Monte Cristo Highball.—(In highball glass) Put
lump of ice; juice of J4 a lime; drink sloe gin- fill
with club soda.                                        '

  Monte Cristo.—(Use medium bar glass with
shaved ice.) 1 jigger imported dry sherrv- 1 tea-
spoonful sugar; J4 pony ***Hennessey brandy- J
egg. Shake well and ser i in a long glass such' as
is used for highballs.
                            35
        BARTENDERS'                  MANUAL

  Morning Cocktail.—(A medium bar glass.) 3 or
4 dashes of gum syrup; 2 dashes of Curacoa (red);
2 dashes of Boker's hitters; 1 dash of absinthe; 1
pony of best brandy; 1 pony of whisky; 1 piece of
lemon peel, twisted to extract the oil; 3 small lumps
of ice. Stir thoroughly and remove the ice. Fill the
glass with seltzer water, and stir with a teaspoon
having a little sugar in it.
  Morning Glory Fizz.—(A large bar glass.)            Fill
the glass      full of fine ice; mix 3 or 4 dashes of
atbsinthe in a little water; 3 dashes of lime juice: 4
or 5 dashes of lemon juice; 1- tablespoon of sugar;
the white of 1 eg?; 1 wineglass of Scotch whisky.
Shake well in a shaker and strain; fill balance of
glass with seltzer or vichy water.       To he drank im
mediately, or the effect will he lost.    It is a morning
beverage, a tonic, and a nerve quieter.
  Mulled Claret.— (A large bar glass or mug.) 3 or
4 lumps of sugar; 2 dashes of lemon juice; 4 or 5
whole allspice, bruised; 2 whole cloves, bruised; 54
teaspoon of ground cinnamon; 2 wineglasses of
claret. Place all the above in a dish, let it come to
a boil, and boil 2 minutes, stirring all the time;
strain and pour into a large, hot glass; grate a
little nutmeg on top.
  Mulled Claret and Egg.—(A large bar glass.)             1
tablespoon of sugar; 1 dash of lemon iuice; 14 tea
spoon of mixed snices; 1;4 wineglass of claret.       Boil
the above ingredients together, then beat to a batter
the yolks of 2 eggs with a little sugar added;
pour the hot wine over the eggs, stirring continually,
grate a little nutmeg on top. You must positively
pour the wine over the eggs, not otherwise, as it
would spoil.
  New Orleans Fizz.—(Use large bar glass.) ]
tablespoonful of pulverized sugar; 3 dashes lemon
juice; the white of 1 egg; 1 wineglass of .gin; 1
dash of creme de vanilla; 2 dashes of orange flower
water; 1 dash of seltzer water; fine shaved ice. Fill
glass with rich milk; shake well and strain; serve
in same glass, but with thin punch glass to drink
from.
  Nutting, Cocktail.—(Mixing glass full of shaved
ice.) Add % Plymouth gin; V:i French vermouth; 1
drop orange bitters.        Stir well and serve.
  Orange Brandy.—Into a large jar put 8 oranees;
cover them with brandy.     In three months' time
strain off the brandy, sweeten to taste, and cover
the oranges over with syrup.
  Orchard Punch.^—(A large bar glass.)             2 table
spoons of orchard syrup; 2 or 3 dashes of lime o'-
lemon juice; (4 pony "ineannle svruo; fill glass with
fine ice; 1 wineglass of California brandy.Stir well
Dress with fruits, dash with a little port wine and
serve   with   a   straw.
                                36
              BA KT E N D E R S'     MANUAL
    Orgeat Lemonade.—y-2 tablespoon of sugar; 4 or 5
  dashes of lemon juice; i;/ wineglass of orgeat; 54
  glass of line ice; lill up glass with water. Stir well;
  dress with fruit and serve with a straw.

    Orgeat Punch.—(A large bar glass.) 114 table
  spoon of orgeat syrup; 114 wineglass of brandy; 4
  or 5 dashes of lemon; fill glass with fine ice. Shake
  well. Dress with fruits; top off with a dash of port
  wine.    Serve with a straw.

    Old    Fashion    Cocktail.—In   old   fashion   cock
 tail glass. One lump sugar, dissolved in water; 3
 dashes Angostura hitters; small piece of ice; lemon
 peel; 1 jigger of whisky. Serve with spoon in
     glass.

   Old Tom Gin Cocktail.—(A large bar glass.) Fill
 glass with fine ice; 3 or .S dashes of gum syrup; 1
 or 3 dashes of Angostura hitters; 1: or 2 dashes of
 Curacoa; 1 wineglass of Old Tom gin.           Stir well.
 Strain.      Twist a piece of lemon peel on top.
   Oxford Punch.—t pint of Cognac brandy; 1 pint
 of old Jamaica rum; 1 quart of orange shrub; 14 pint
 of .sherry; 1 bottle of catpillaire; 2 quarts of boiling
 water; 0 glasses of calf's-foot jelly; Glemons; 4 sweet
 oranges; sufficient loaf sugar, dissolved in some of
 the hot water. Rub the rinds of 3 lemons with
 sugar; cut the peel very fine off 3 more lemons and 3
 of the oranges; press out the juice of all the oranges
 and lemons. Place the whole with the jelly in a jug
 and stir well. Pour on the water, and let it stand
 for 20 minutes. Strain through a fine sieve into a
 large howd; add the capillaire, spirits, shrub and
 wine, stirring well.
    Panama Cooler.—(A large goblet.) % full cracked
 ice. juice of J4 orange; 3 dashes lime juice; 1 jigger
 rhine wine; 1 Jigger sherry; 14 harspoonful sugar-
.S or 4 dashes maraschino. Stir well and fill the
balance of glass with ice; decorate with fruit and
serve with straw.

  Panhandle Toddy.—(Use long toddy glass.) Crush
1 sriuare of sugar m water; 1 small hall of ice same
as highball; .3 dashes Jamaica rum; 1 jigger rye
whisky.
   Parisian Pousse Cafe, No. 1.—(A sherry glass)
.G drops of raspberry syrup;     of the glass mara
schino; 14 of the glass Curacoa;       of the glass
chartreuse; 14 of the glass brandy. Keep the colors
.separate and serve without mixing.
  Parisian Poijsse Cafe. No. 2.—14 glass of mara
schino; 2-r, kirschwasser; 1-.5 chartreuse; brandy
on top.

  Peach Brandy.—20 drops oil of hitter almonds;
3.)4 gallons of n.") per cent alcohol.
                             37
           BARTENDERS'                 MANUAL

  Philadelphia Boating Punch.—(A large bar glass.;
Fill glass with fine ice, 1 tablespoon of sugar; 1 or
2 dashes of lemon juice; 1 wineglass of St. Croix
rum; 1 pony of old brandy.            Stir well.   Dress with
fruits and serve with straw.

  Philadelphia Fish-House Punch.—% pint lemon
juice' 54 pound white sugar, dissolved in sufficient
water; Yi pint Cognac brandy; Y P'nt peach brandy;
14 pint Jamaica rum; 214 pints cold water. Ice and

  Pineapple Julep.—(For a party of five.) The juice
of 2 oranges; 1 gill of raspberry syrup; 1 gill mara
schino; 1 gill of Old Tom gin; 1 quart bottle spark
ling Mosselle; 1 ripe pineapple, peeled and sliced
small and cut up. Put all the materials in a glass
bowl; ice, and serve in cocktail glasses, ornamented
with berries in season.

  Pineapple Punch.—(For a party of 20.) Take 8
bottles of champagne; 2 pints of Jamaica rum; 2
pints of brandy; 2 gills of Curacoa; juice of 6 lem
ons; 4 pineapples, sliced. Sweeten to taste with
pulverized white sugar.

  Plain Syrup.—614 lbs. of loaf sugar; ^2 gallon of
r\%.ter.    Boil   until   dissolved,    and   filter through
flannel.

  Porter Sangaree.—(Large bar glass.) Vz table
spoon of sugar; 3 or 4 lumps of ice; fill up with
porter. Stir well; remove the ice; grate a little
nutmeg on      top.

  Port Wine Cobbler.—(A large bar glass.)                table
spoon of sugar; 1 pony of orchard syrup; fill glass
with fine ice; V/4 wineglass of port wine. Stir well;
dress with fruit.

   Port Wine Flip.— (A large bar glass.) 1 egg; 1
 tablespoon of sugar; 54 glass of fine ice; 1 wineglass
of port wine. Use a shaker in mixing. Strain into
a wineglass. Grate a little nutmeg on top.

   Port Wine Negus.—(A small bar glass.) 1 tea
 spoon of sugar; 1 wineglass of port wine; fill glass
 % full of hot water; grate a little nutmeg on top.
   Port Wine Punch.—(A large bar glass.) )4 table
 spoon of sugar; )4 tablespoon of orchard syrup; 1
 or 2 dashes of lemon juice: 1'4 wineglass of port
 wine; fill up with fine ice. Stir well and dress top
 with fruits in season.      Serve with a straw.

   Port Wine Sangaree.—(A small bar glass.) 1 or 2
 lumps of ice; 1 teaspoon of sugar; 1(4 wineglass
 of port wine. Shake well; remove ice; grate a little
 nutmeg on top.
                                 38
        BARTENDERS'              MANUAL

   Pousse Cafe, French.—(A sherry glass.)           glass
 of maraschino; 1-G glass of raspberry syrup; 1-G
 glass of vanilla; 1-6 glass of Curacoa; 1-6 glass of
 chartreuse; 1-6 glass of brandy. In compounding
 the above, use a small wineglass for pouring in
 each article separately; be very careful in doing so,
 that each article may be separate. Serve without
 mixing.
   Pousse I'Amour.—(Use sherry wine glass.) This is
 similar to the more familiar pousse cafe, and has to
be as carefully made. 'A .sherry glass of sherry;
yolk of fresh egg (drop in); )4 glass green vanilla;
   glass Cognac. The yolk of the egg must be cold.
   Prefeldt Highball.—Take large sherry glass, fill
 y2 full with Swedish punch. • Fill other half with
 Rhine wine and serve.
  Punch.—Boil a large kettle of strong black coffee,
take a large dish and put 4 lbs of sugar into it;
then pour 4 bottles of brandy and 2 bottles of Jama
ica rum over the sugar, and set it on fire; let the
sugar dissolve and drop into the black coffee; stir
this well and you will have a good hot punch.
   Punch a la Romaine.—(For a party of 20.) 2 bot
tles of rum; 2 bottles of wine; 15 lemons; 3 sweet
oranges 3 pounds of powdered sugar; 15 eggs. Dis
solve the sugar in the juice of the lemons and
oranges, adding the thin rind of 1 orange; strain
through a sieve into a bowl, and add by degrees the
whites of the eggs beaten to a frotb.   Place the bowl
on ice for a while, then stir in briskly the rum and
the wine.
  Punch, Chauffeur.—(Use large bar glass.) Plenty
of shaved ice; 4 or 5 spoons of sugar; 2 or 3 dashes
of lemon juice; same of celery tonic bitters;
pony French brandy; 1 fresh egg; fill the balance
with claret wine; shake well, dress with fruit, serve
with straw.
 Punch, Cuban.—Thin bar glass full of shaved ice.)
y pony Curacoa;  whisk" glass Italian vermouth;
fill up with sherry wine; stir with spoon; sprinkle
with powdered sugar; 2 or 3 dashes Cirenie de
Menthe or 2 dashes Angostura; dress with fruit and
serve with     straws.
  Punch,    Escapernong.—Large    mixing    glass    half
full of cracked ice; 3 barspoons powdered sugar;
Rhine wine glass Escapernong wine; (4 jigger creme
de vanilla; 1 egg; dash of brandy. Fill glass with
cream or rich milk- shake well; strain in milk punch
glass; sprinkle with nutmeg and cinnamon; serve
with straws.
  Punch, Golden.— (Use a punch gla.ss.)         bar-
spoon of sugar; juice of a whole lime; dissolve with
syphon; 1 dash Curacoa; dubb orange; 1 drink of
straight whisky. Fill glass with cracked ice, stir
well and ornament with fruit.
                         39
           BARTENDERS'                 MANUAL

 Punch, St. Charles.— (Use large bar glass.) 1
small tablespoonful of powdered white sugar, dis
solve in a little water; 1 wineglass port wine; 1
pony glass brandy; Yz glass Curacoa; 2 or It dashes
lemon juice. Fill the tumbler with shaved ice; stir
with spoon, ornament with fruits in season, and
serve    with   a   straw.

  Punch, Tea.—(Bar glass filled with cracked ice.)
S teaspoonfuls powdered sugar; juice of half a lem
on, 1 pony English rum; 3 dashes absinthe; lill with
tea, stir well, trim with slice of lemon, 2 straws and
serve.     Tea must be cold.

  Remington Cooler.—In a fizz glass put 2 or 3
lumps of ice; peel of a whole lemon; small spoon
ful syrup; juice of Y^ lemon; drink Scotch whisky;
fill up with soda.
  Rhine Wine Cobbler.—(A large bar glass.) V/z
tablespoon of sugar; 1^2 wineglass of water; \Yz
wineglass of Rhine wine; fill glass with fine ice;
stir well; ornament with fruits and serve with
straw.

  Rhine Wine and Seltzer.—(A large bar glass.)
Fill glass half full of Rhine wine, balance with
seltzer.    Both the Rhine wine and seltzer should
be kept on ice. The above is a favorite drink among
the Germans, who prefer it to lemonade.
  Rhine Wine Lemonade.—(Prepare in a goblet.)
1 tablespoon sugar; juice of Y^ lemon; a little ice,
and fill up with Rhine wine.            Dress with fruit in

  Rocky Mountain Cooler.—1 egg beaten un: Yi
tablespoon of powdered sugar; juice of 1 small lem
on; add cider.        Stir well; grate a little nutmeg on
top if desired.
  Roman Punch.—(A large bar glass.) Flalf fill
glass with fine ice; 1 tablespoon of sugar; 2 or 3
dashes of lemon juice; juice of Y^ an orange; Ya
pony of Curacoa;    wineglass of brandy; 14 pony
of Jamaica rum. Stir well. Dash with po»-t wine.
Dress with fruit.            Serve with a straw.

  Rosington Cocktail.—(In mixing glass.) 54 full
of ice; Ya or orange; 54 drink of dry gin; 54 drink
French vermouth.             Shake well and strain.

  Rum and Sugar.— (.^ whisky glass.) 1 or 2 dashes
of gum syrup; 1 lump of ice; 1 wineglass of Jama
ica rum. Stir well and serve, or fix glass with syr
up and ice as above, leaving a small spoon in the
glass. Set it and the bottle before the person, al
lowing him to help himself.
   Rum Daisy.—Is prepared in the same manner as
 Brandy Daisy, substituting rum for brandy.
                                  40
         B A R T E N D E R S '      M A N U A L
  Santa Cruz Fix.—(A small bar glass.) 1 large
teaspoonful of powdered sugar dissolved, in a little
water; 2 dashes of Curacoa; the juice of    lemon;
a wineglass of Santa Cruz rum; fill up the glass
% full of shaved ice.    Stir well and ornament the top
with a slice or orange and a piece of pineapple.
  Santa Cruz Rum Daisy.— (A small bar glass.) 3
or 4 dashes of rum syrup; 2 or 3 dashes of Curacoa;
the juice of    a lemon; 1 wineglass of Santa Cruz
rum; lill glass % full of shaved ice. Shake thor
oughly, strain into a large cocktail glass and fill up
with seltzer water.

  Santa Cruz Rum Punch.— (Use large bar glass.)
1 tablespoonful powdered white sugar, dissolved in
a little water; 1 wineglass'Santa Cruz rum; 14 wine-
gli.ss Jamaica rum; 2 or 3 dashes lemon juice; 1
slice of orange (cut in quarters). Fill the tumbler
with shaved ice, shake well, and dress the top with
sliced lime and berries in season.        Serve with a
straw.

  Santa Cruz Sour.—(A small bar glass.) 1 large
teaspoonful of white sugar, dissolved in a little
apollinaris water; 3 dashes of lemon juice; 1 wine
glass of Santa Cruz rum; fill the glass full of shaved
ice.   Shake up and strain into a claret wineglass;
ornament with orange and berries in season.
  Santinas New Orleans Pousse Cafe.—-(A sherry
glass.) V:i wineglass of brandy; Vs wineglass of
maraschino' Va wineglass of Curacoa. Careful at
tention must be paid to arrangement of colors, and
to preventing the different portions from running
into each other.

  Saratoga Cocktail.—(A small bar glass.)         2 dashes
of Angostura bitters; 3 small lumps of ice; 1 pony
of brandy; 1 pony of whisky; 1 pony of vermouth.
Shake up well, then strain into a claret glass, and
serve with a slice of lemon.

  Saratoga or Sea Breeze Egg Lemonade.—(A large
bar glass.) 1 egg; 1 tablespoon of sugar; )4 the
juice of a lemon; fill )4 of the glass with fine ice;
balance with water.    Use the shaker until            well
mixed; strain; grate a little nutmeg on top.

  Saratoga Sour.— (Tn a punch goblet.)       Put a lump
of ice; Rj of orange; )4 drink of dry gin; R2 drink
drink of whisky.      Stir, and fizz while stirring.
  Sauterne Cobbler.—1 teaspoon of sugar; Rj wine
glass of orchard syrup; fill glass with fine ice;^ 2
wineglasses of Sauterne.         Stir well; dress with
fruit, etc.   Serve with a straw.
  Sauterne Punch.—Ts composed of the same in
gredients as claret punch, but substituting Sauterne
wine for the claret.
                            41
           BARTENDERS'            MANUAL
  Sazerack Cocktail.—(In mixing" glass.) 1 or 2
lumps ice; 2 dashes of Angostura bitters; Y-z jigger
Italian vermouth; 114 jigger bourbon; strain in old
fashion cocktail glass, which must first be cooled.
  Scotch Whisky Skin.—(A small whisky glass.)
1 wineglass of Scotch whisky; fill glass half full
with hot water; put a piece of lemon peel on top.
  Seltzer Lemonade.—(A large bar glass.)          table
spoons of sugar; 5 or G dashes of lemon juice; ^
doz. bits of ice; fill up with seltzer water. Stir well.
   Shandy Gaff.—(A large bar glass.) Half the glass
fill with lager; half the glass fill with ginger ale. It
is also made with half ale and half ginger ale.
 Sherry and Bitters.—(A sherry glass.) 1 dash of
Angostura bitters; 1 wineglass of sberry. To pre
pare the above artistically, dash in your Ijitters, then
twist the glass in a way to cover the inside; fill up
with sherry.
  Sherry and Egg.—(A whisky glass.) 1 egg, ice
cold; 1 wineglass sherry wine. Before dropping in
the egg, cover the bottom of the glass with a little
sherry; this will prevent the egg adhering to the
glass; or, after preparing the egg as above, set the
bottle of sherry before the person and allow him to
help himself.
  Sherry and Ice.—(A whisky glass.)        1 or 3 lumps
of ice and a small bar spoon in the glass.         Hand
this to the person, with the bottle of sherry, allow
ing him to help himself.
  Sherry Cobbler.—(A large bar glass.) 1 tablespoon
of sugar; 2 or 3 slices of orange; fill glass with fine
ice; then fill up with sherry; shake well and dress
top with fruit tastily. Serve with a straw.

   Sherry Egg Nogg, No. X.-Y-i tablespoon of sugar;
.1 e.gg; 1 pony of brandy; 1 wineglass of sherry; fill
up with fine ice. Shake well. Strain into a fancy
bar glass.     Serve witb nutmeg on top.
   Sherry Egg Nogg, No. 2.—(A large bar glass.)
1 tablespoon of sugar;/! egg; 2 wineglasses of
sherry; Ya glass of fine ice. Fill with milk. Shake
thoroughly; nutmeg on top.
   Sherry Flip.—(A large bar glass.)         ^   glass of
 fine ice; 1 egg;  tablespoon of sugar;  wine
 glass sherry. Shake well. Strain into a fancy
 glass with nutmeg on top.
   Sherry Wine Punch.— (A large bar glass.) Fill
 glass with fine ice; 2 wineglasses of sherry; 1 table
 spoon of sugar; 2 or 3 dasbes of lemon juice. Stir
 well. Dress with fruits and top off with a little
 claret.   Serve with a straw.
                             42
           BARTENDERS'           MANUAL

  Sherry Wine Sangaree.— (A whisky glass.) 1 tea
spoon of sugar; 1 or 2 lumps of ice; 1 wineglass of
sherry. Shake well; remove ice; grate a little nut
meg on      top.

   Silver Fizz.—(A large bar glass.) Yz tablespoon
of sug^ir; 8 or 4 dashes of lemon juice; 1 wineglass
of Old Tom gin; the white only of an egg; fill with
ice. Shake up well; strain into a fizz glass. Fill
the glass with seltzer from a syphon and drink im
mediately.
  Slipper.—(A wineglass.) Yz wineglass of char
treuse (yellow); 1 yolk of an egg; Y wineglass of
   nziger goldwasser. This is a favorite with Amer
ican ladies, much relished. Be careful when pre
paring this beverage not to disturb the yolk of the
egg.


  Soda Cocktail.—(A large bar glass.) 1 teaspoon
of sugar; ;J or 3 dashes of bitters (Angostura); 5 or
0 lumps of ice; fill glass with a bottle of lemon soda.
Stir well. You may put a slice of orange on top
cind berries.

  Soda Lemonade.—(A large bar glass.) 1 table
spoon of sugar; 3 or 4 lumps of ice; 3 or 4 dashes
of lemon juice; 1 bottle of plain soda water; stir
well; remove the ice.

  Soda Nectar.—(A large bar glass.) The juice of
1 lemon; )4 glass of seltzer water; white sugar to
taste; Y^ a small teaspoon of bicarbonate of soda.
Mix the lemon, water and sugar together thorough
ly, then put in the bicarbonate of soda, stir well,
and drink while it is foaming. This is a very pleas
ant beverage for a morning drink, and a gentle
purge for the bowels.

  Soda Negus.—(Use a small punch bowl, about 1
cjuart.)   1 pint of port wine; 13 lumps of loaf sugar;
8 cloves; grated nutmeg sufficient to fill a small
teaspoon; put the above ingredients into a thorough
ly clean saucepan, warm and stir them well, but do
not suffer it to boil; upon the warm wine empty a
bottle of plain soda. This makes a delicious and re
freshing drink.

  Southern Club Royal Gin Fizz.—(Use large mix
ing glass % full shaved ice.)    Juice of Yz lemon, or
use from      lemon squirt bottle same amount, use
judgment; 1 ordinary sized drink of gin, Gordon or
domestic; sugar to taste; 1 whole egg; milk to suit;
shake well, strain into large fizz glass; add to above
2 squirts orange flower water; squeeze orange peel
in fizz glass and leave peel in glass; fill up with
white rock water or any good mineral water.        Stir
well and serve while foaming.
                            43
          BARTENDERS'              MANUAL

    St. Charles Punch.—(A large bar glass.) 1 table
spoon of sugar; ]4 of lemon juice; 1 wineglass of
port wine; 1 pony of brandy; fill with fine ice. Shake
well. Dress top with fruits in season and serve with
a   .straw.
    St. Croix Crusta.—(A large bar glass.)      Prepare
 the rind of a lemon as in a Brandy Crusta, etc.;
;> or 4 dashes of orchard syrup; 1 dash of Angos
tura bitters; 1 dash of lemon juice; 3 dashes of
maraschino; 1 wineglass of St. Croi.K rum; JA glass
of line ice. Stir and strain into the wineglass. Dress
with bits of fruit, berries.
    St. Croix Fix.—(A large bar glass.)       Fill glass
with fine ice;     tablespoon of sugar        wineglass
of seltzer; 2 or 3 dashes of lemon juice;      pony of
pineapple syrup; 1 wineglass of St. Croix rum.
Stir well.    Dress with fruit.   Serve with a straw.
    St. Croix Rum Fizz.—Is prepared same as Brandy
Fizz, simply substituting rum for brandy.
    St. Croix Rum Punch.—(A large bar glass.) 1
tablespoon of sugar; 3 or 4 dashes of lemon juice;
     pony of Jamaica rum; 1 wineglass of St. Croix
rum; fill up with line ice.       Dress top with fruit
and berries.    Serve with a straw.
    St. Croix Sour.—("A large bar glass.) lA tablespoon
of sugar, dissolved in a little seltzer water; Rj of
a lemon squeezed into the glass;    glass of fine ice;
1 wineglass St. Croix rum. Stir well; strain into a
sour glass; dress with fruit in season.
    Stone Fence.—(A whisky glass.)         1 wineglass
Bourbon whisky or applejack; 3 or 3 lumps of ice;
fill up with cider. Stir well.
  Stone Wall.—(A large bar glass.) Rj tablespoon
of sugar; 3 or 4 lumps of ice; 1 wineglass of whisky;
1 bottle of plain soda. Stir up well with a spoon;
remove the ice.

  Swiss Ess.—(In mixing glass.) Yi full of ice; 3
dashes syrup; a little water; pony white absinthe;
wlii-te of egg; pony anisette. Shake till shaker is
frosted; strain in medium size glass.
    Telephone Fizz.—(tise large bar glass.) Fill half
full with fine ice; 1 teaspoon sugar; 1 pony glass
French brandy; 1 pony maraschino; 1 raw egg.
•Shake well, strain in stem glass and fill with seltzer.
   Toledo Punch.—(Use a large bowl.) Place 3JJ'
I'ounds of loaf sugar in the bowl; 5 or 0 bottles of
plain soda; 4 lemons, the juice only: 1 quart of
Cognac brandy; 1 small bunch of wintcr.grcen; 4
oranges and 1 pineapple (cut iml and add the slices
into the bowl and also strawberries and grapes.
Mix the ingredients well with a ladle and add 6
bottles of champagne.
        BA R T E N D E R S '     MANUAL
   Tom Collins.—(Use extra larpfc bar glass.) -U
 tablespoon sugar; 3 or 4 dashes lime juice; 3 or 4
 pieces broken ice; 1 wineglass Old Tom gin; 1 bot
 tle plain soda. Mix well with a spoon, strain and
 serve. Attention must be paid not to let the foam
 of the soda spread over the glass.
  Vermouth Cocktail, No. 1.—(A small glass.) IJA
pony of French vermouth; 3 dashes of Angostura
bitters; 2 dashes of gum syrup.
  Vermouth Cocktail, No. 2.—(A large bar glass.)
•)4 glass of line ice; 4 to 5 dashes of gum syrup; 1
or 2 dashes of Angostura hitters; 2 dashes of mara
schino; 1 wineglass of vermouth. Stir well. Strain
into a cocktail glass.   A piece of lemon peel.on top.
  Vermouth Frappe.—(A large bar glass.) lyi pony
of French vermouth, '/l glass of shaved ice; fill up
with cold seltzer water.

  Whisky Cobbler.— (A large bar glass.) 2 wine
glasses of whisky; ^2 tablespoon of sugar, dissolved
well; IJA tablespoon of pineapple syrup; lill glass
with line ice; stir well and dress with fruits. Serve
with a straw.

  Whisky Cocktail.—(A large bar glass.)        )4 glass
of line ice; 2 or I! dashes of gum syrup; 1 or 2
dashes of Angostura hitters; 1 or 2 dashes of Cura-
coa; 1 wineglass of whisky. Stir well. Strain into
a cocktail glass.   Twist a piece of lemon peel on
top.

  Whisky Crusta.—(A large bar glass.) 3 or 4
dashes of gum syrup; 1 or 2 dashes of Angostura
hitters; 1 or 2 dashes of lemon juice; 2 dashes of
maraschino; fill glass half full of fine ice;   wine
glass whisky. Mix the ingredients thoroughly. Take
a lemon the size of a fancy cocktail glass, peel it so
as to have the rind in one piece, fit it into the cock
tail glass. Moisten the edge of your glass with
lemon juice and dip the edge in powdered sugar,
then strain the mi.xture into your prepared glass.
  Whisky Daisy.—Is prepared in the same manner
as Brandy Daisy, substituting whisky for brandy.
  Whisky Daisy.—(A large bar glass.)        table-
spoonful of sugar; 3 or 4 dashes of lemon juice; 1
dash of lime juice; 1 pony of brandy, seltzer, dis
solve with the lemon and lime juice 54 glass of fine
ice; 1 wineglass of good whisky; fill the glass with
shaved ice;     pony'' of chartreuse. Stir well, then
take a fancy glass, have it. dressed with fruit, strain.
   Whisky Fix.—(A large Bar glass.) 54 glass of
fine ice; tablespoon of sugar, 2 or 3 dashes of
lemon juice; JA pony of pineapple syrup; 1 wire-
glass of whisky. Stir well and dress with fruit.
Serve with a straw.
                           45
          BARTENDERS'                MANUAL

     Whisky Float or Brandy Float.—In           high-ball
glass one lump ice, lill     full of soda, float whisky
or brandy on top.
     Whisky Fizz.—J/2 teaspoon of fine sugar; juice
of      a lemon; 1 or 3 dashes of the white of egg;
1 wineglass of whisky;         glass of line ice. Shake
well; strain into a fizz glass; fill it with seltzer water
or vichy.
  Whisky Flip.—Is prepared same as Brandy Flip,
substituting whisky for brandy.
     Whisky Float.—Same as above, using whisky in
stead of brandy.
     Whisky Julep.—(A large bar glass.)         Y^,   table
spoon of sugar, dissolved in       wineglass water;
3 or 4 sprigs of mint, press to extract the essence;
1 wineglass whisky; a dash of Jamaica rum. Stir
well with spoon; arrange the mint with stems down
ward.     Dress with pineapple, oranges and berries,
tastily; some omit the fruit.        Serve with straw.

  Whisky Punch.— (Use large bar glass.) 1 table-
spoonful powdered sugar, dissolved in a little water;
juice of Y small lemon; 1^2 wineglass whisky. Fill
glass with shaved ice, shake well; dress with lem
on and berries, and serve with straws.

  Whisky Sling (cold).—(A small bar glass.)               1
teaspoon of sugar, dissolved in wineglass of water;
1 or 3 small lumps of ice; 1 wineglass of whisky.
Stir well, and grate nutmeg on top.

  Whisky Smash.—(A large bar glass.) 54 table
spoon of sugar; 3 or 3 sprigs of mint, pressed to
extract essence, as in a julep;         glass of fine ice;
1 wineglass of whisky.           Stir well; strain into a
fancy or sour glass; dress with a little fruit, berries,
etc.

  Whisky Sour.—(A large bar glass.) Fill glass
with fine ice; J4 tablespoon of sugar; .3 or-4 dashes
of lemon juice; >4 wineglass of seltzer water; 1
wineglass of whisky. Stir well; strain into a sour
glass; dress with fruit.
  Whisky Toddy.—(In toddy glass.) Dissolve one
lump of sugar in a little water; place spoon in
glass. Serve with bottle of whisky, allowing cus
tomer to help himself.
  Whisky Toddy, Old Fashion.— (In old fashion
cocktail glass.) Small piece of ice; small spoonful
of sugar, dissolved in a little water; dash of lemon
juice; drink of whisky.     Serve with spoon in glass.
  White Plush.— (Use small bar glass.) Allow cus
tomer to help himself to bourbon or rye whisky,
and then fill glass with milk.
                            46
        BARTENDERS'             MANUAL

  Widow's Dream.—(Use mixing glass.) I/2 glass
cracked ice; 1 tablespoonful of powdered sugar; 4
dashes lemon juice; white of 1 egg; Yz jig'ger Old
Tom gin.     Shake well; strain into hollow stem
champagne glass; add Y ji&ger Cream de Rose;
float with claret wine.

  Wine Lemonade.—(A large bar glass.) Fill glass
with fine ice; or 4 dashes of lemon juice; 1 table
spoon of sugar; 1 wineglass of whatever kind of
wine is desired; fill up with water. Shake well, dress
with fruits.   Serve with a straw.

  69th Regiment Punch.—(A hot whisky glass.)
wineglass of Irish whisky;     wineglass of Scotch
whisky; 1 teaspoon of sugar; 2 or I! dashes of lemon
juice; 2 wineglasses of hot water.    The imbibition
of the above adds greatly to one's comfort on a
cold night.
  7th Regiment Punch.—(A large bar glass.) 1
tablespoon of sugar; 2 or 3 dashes of lemon juice;
1 wineglass of brandy; 1 wineglass of Cataw-
ba.   wine.   Flavor with raspberry sj'rup.    Fill
glass with fine ice; shake well; dress with fruits:
dash with Jamaica rum and serve with a straw.




                          47
      INDEX OF RECIPES
          FOR MIXING FANCY
                     DRINKS


Absinthe, American Style                               14
Al)sinthe Cocktail                                     14
Absinthe Frappe                                        14
Alisinthe, French Style             -.                 14
Aguinaldo Punch                                        14
Ale Sangaree                                           14
American Beauty                                        14
Amaranth Cocktail                                     .14
American Flag                                          14
-American Pousse Cafe                                  14
Angel's Tit                                           15
Angora High Ball                                      15
Apollinaris Lemonade                               ...15
Applejack Cocktail                               .....15
Applejack Fix                                        . .15
Applejack Sour                  '                 ....15
Arrack Punch                                          .15
A Suydam                                               15
Baltimore Egg Nogg                                       15
Beef Tea                                  ... .. ... . .15
Bishop                                   .. .. .. ... .. 15
Black Stripe                                            16
Blackthorne Cocktail                                    16
Blackthorne Sour                                        16
Blue Blazer                                             16
Boston Egg Nogg                                    ,...16
Bottle of Cocktail                                     16
Bowl of Egg Nogg for a Party.                      ,. . .16
Brace Up                                                17
Brace Up, Saratoga                                      17
Brandy and Ginger Ale                           ......19
Brandy and Gum                                          19
Brandy and Soda                                         19
Brandy, ljurned, and Peach                              19
Brandy Champerelle, No. 1                               17
Brandy Champerelle                                      17
Brandy Cocktail                                         17
Brandy Crusta                                           17
Brandy. Daisy                                           17
Brandy Fix .'                                           17
Brandy Fizz                                             18
Brandy Float                                            18
Brandy Flip                                             18
Brandy Julep                                            18
Brandy Punch                                          18
Brand}' Sangaree                                      18
Brandy Scaffa                                         18
Brandy Shrub          '                        .....il8
Brandy Sling                                        ..18
Brandy Smash                                          18
Brandy Sour                                      ....18
Bronx Cocktail                                    .!..19
          INDEX OF RECIPES—Continued
Brunswick Cooler             :                         10
Buffalo Fizz                                           19
California Sherry Cobbler.                              19
California Wine Cobbler                                 19
Catawba Col)l)ler                                       19
Century Club Punch                                      19
Champagne Cobbler                                       20
Ciiampagne Cocktail                                     20
Champagne Cup                                           20
Champagne Julep                             '           20
Champagne Punch                                         20
Champagne Sour                                          20
Chicago Cooler                                          20
Cider Punch                                             21
Cider Egg Nogg                                          20
Claret and Champagne Cup                                21
Claret Cobbler                                          21
Claret Cup for a Party                                  21
Claret Punch                                           .21
Clover Leaf                                             21
Cocktail, Appetizer              '.                     21
Cocktail, Automobile                                    21
Cocktail, Bijou                                         22
Cocktail, Celery                                        22
Cocktail, Cincinnati                                     22
Cocktail, Club                                           22
Cocktail. Coffee                                         22
Cocktail, Coronation                                     22
Cocktail, Derlry                                         20
Cocktail, Du Barry                                       22
Cocktail. Irish                                    .....22
Cocktail,}. P. C                                        22
Cocktail, Lemon                       .                 2.1
Cocktail, Mint                   ..                    -2:1
Cocktail. Montana                                       22
Cocktail. Philippino                                    23
Cocktail, Ping Pong                                     23
Cocktail, Prairie                                       23
Cocktail, Princeton                                     23
Cocktail, Saratoga                                      23
Cocktail, Scotch                                        23
Cocktail', Sherry                                       23
Cocktail. Southern Club Manhattan                       24
Cocktail, Speedway                                      24
Cocktail, Star                                        • .24
Cocktail, Trilby                                        24
Cocktail, Turf                                          24
Cocktail, Washington                                    24
Cocktail, Yale                                          24
Cold Ruby Punch                                         24
Colorado Bracer                                         24
Cordial Lemonade                                        24
Cosmopolitan Claret Punch                               24
Crimean Cup a la Marmora                                25
Curacoa                                                 25
Curacoa Punch                                           2.5
Currant Brandy                                          25
Currant Shrub                             •••••,        23
Dizzy Sour                                              25
            INDEX OF RECIPES—Continued

Eagle Highball                                 25
Egg Milk Punch         .".                     25
Egg Nogg (Plain)                               20
Egg Pho.sphate                                 20
Egg Sour                                       20
Elk's Fizz                                     20
Empire Punch                                   20
English Bishop                                 20
English Royal Punch                            20
Faivre's Pousse Cafe         ;                 20
Fancy Brandy Cocktail, No. 1                   27
Fancy Brandy Cocktail, No. 2.                  27
Fancy Gin and Whisky Cocktail                  27
Fedora                                         27
Fishing Punch                                  27
Flip, Pan American                             27
Fox River Toddy                                27
Fox Flip                                       27
Frapped Cafe Royal                             27
Fruit Lemonade                                 28
Gen. Harrison Egg Nogg                         28
Gin and Calamus                                29
Gin and Milk                                   29
Gin and Molasses                               29
Gin and Pine                                   29
Gin and Tansy                                  29
Gin and Wormwood                               29
Gin Cocktail                                   28
Gin Crusta                                     28
Gin Daisy                                      28
Gin Fix                                        28
Gin Fizz                                       28
Gin Flip                                       28
Gin Julep                                      28
Gin Punch                                      28
Gin Sangaree                                   29
Gin Sling                                      28
Gin Smash                                     -.29
Gin Sour                                        29
Glasgow Flip                                   29
Goblet Fizz                                    30
Golden Fizz                              ;     31
Grenadine Punch                                 30
Gum Syrup                                    ...30
Half-and-Half                                   30
Hari-Kari                                       30
Highball, Hoffman                               30
Highlander Highball                             30
Hock Cobbler                                    30
Hoffman House Punch                             30
Horse's Neck                                    31
Hot Arrack Punch                                31
Hot Gin Sling                                   31
Hot Irish Punch                                 31
Hot Locomotive                                  31
Hot Lemonade                                    31
Hot Milk Punch                                  31
Hot Rum                                         31
Hot Spiced Rum                                  31
            INDEX OF RECIPES—Continued
Hot Scotch Whisky Sling                      31
Hot Whisky Punch                             32
How to Serve a Pony Glass of Brandy          31
Imperial Egg Nogg                            32
Imperial Punch                               32
Invisible Gin Highball                       32
Irish Whisky Skin                            32
Italian Wine Lemonade                        32
Jamaica Rum Sour                             32
Japanese Cocktail                        i   32
Jeffries Punch                               32
Jersey Cocktail                 •            33
"Jersey Lily" Pousse Cafe                    33
Jersey Sour                                  33
John Collins Gin                             33
Knickerbein                          '       33
Knickerbocker                                33
Kirschwasser Punch                           ,33
Lemonade                         i           33
Lincoln Club Punch                           33
Madame Sherry Fizz                           34
Mamie Taylor                                 34
Manhattan Club Oyster Cocktail               34
Manhattan Cocktail, No. 1                    34
Manhattan Cocktail, No. 2                    34
Maraschino Punch                             34
Martinez Cocktail                            34
Medford Rum Punch                            34
Medford Rum Sour                             34
Medford Rum Smash                            34
Metropolitan Cocktail                        34
Milk and     Seltzer..-                      35
Milk Punch                                   35
Milk Shake                                   32
Mint Julep                                    35
Mint Sloe                                     35
Miner's Delight                               35
Mississippi Punch                             35
Monte Cristo                                  35
Monte Cristo Highball                         35
Morning Cocktail                              36
Morning Glory Fizz                            36
Mulled Claret                                 36
Mulled Claret and Egg                         36
New Orleans Fizz                              36
Nutting Cocktail                              36
Old Fashioned Cocktail                        37
Old Tom Gin Cocktail                          37
Orange Brandy                                 36
Orchard Punch                                 36
Orgeat Lemonade                               37
Orgeat Punch                                  37
Oxford Punch                                  37
Panama Cooler                                 37
Panhandle Toddy                               37
Parisian Pousse Cafe, No. 1                   37
Parisian Poussee Cafe, No. 2                  37
Peach Brandy                                  37
Philadelphia Fish House Punch                 38
              INDEX OF RECIPES—Continued

 Philadelphia Boating Punch                     38
 Pineapple Julep                                38
 Pineapple Punch                                38
 Plain Syrup                                    38
 Porter Sangaree                                38
 Port Wine Cobbler                              38
 Port Wine Flip                                 38
 Port Wine Negus                                38
 Port Wine Punch                                38
 Port Wine Sangaree                             38
 Pousse Cafe, French                            39
 Pousse   I'Amour                               39
 Prefeldt Highball                              39
 Punch                                          39
 Punch a la Romaine                             39
Punch, Chauffeur                                 39
Punch, Cuban                                     39
Punch, Tea                                 .....40
Punch, Golden                                   39
Punch, Escapernong                              39
Punch, St. Charles                              40
 Remington Cooler                               40
Rhine Wine and Seltzer                          40
Rhine Wine Col)bler                             40
Rhine Wine Lemonade                             40
Rocky Mountain Cooler                           40
Roman Punch                                     40
Rosington Cocktail                              40
Rum Daisy                                       40
Rum and Sugar                                   40
 Santa Cruz Fix                                 41
 Santa Cruz Rum Daisy                           41
•Santa Cruz Rum Punch                           41
 Santa Cruz Sour                                41
 Santinas N. O. Pousse Cafe                     41
Saratoga Cocktail                               41
Saratoga or Sea Breeze Egg Lemonade             4a
Saratoga Sour                                   41
Sauterne Col)bler                               41
Sauterne Punch                                  41
Sazerack Cocktail                               42
Scotch Whisky Skin                              42
Seltzer Lemonade                                42
Soutliern Club Royal Gin Fizz                   43
Shandy Gaff                                     42
Sherry and Bitters                              42
Sherry and lee .......'                         42
Sherry Cobbler                                  42
Slierry and Egg                                 42
Sherry Egg Nogg, No. 1                          42
Sherry Egg Nogg, No. 2                          42
Sherry Flip                                     42
Sherrv Wine Punch                               42
Sherry Wine Sangaree                            43
Silver Fizz                                     43
Slipper           ;                             43
Soda Cocktail                                   43
Soda Lemonade                                   43
Soda Nectar                                     43
            INDEX OF RECIPES—Continued

Soda Negus                                    . .43
St. Charles Punch                               44
St. Croix Crusta                                44
St. Croix Fix                                   44
St. Croix Rum Fizz                              44
St. Croix Rum Punch                             44
St. Croix Sour                                  44
Stone Fence                                     44
Stone Wall                                      44
Swiss Ess                                       44
Telephone Fizz                                  44
Toledo Puuch                                    44
Tom Collins                                     45
Vermouth Cocktail, No. 1                         45
Vermouth Cocktail, No. 2                      ...45
Vermouth Frappe                              "...45
Widow's Dream                                    47
Whisky Cobbler                                   45
Whisky Cocktail                                  45
Whisky Crusta                                    45
Whisky Daisy                             ;       45
Whisky Fix                                       45
Whisky Fizz                                      46
Whisky Float                                     46
Whisky Flip                                      46
Whisky Julep                                     46
Whisky Punch                                     46
Whisky Sling (cold)                              46
Whisky Smash                                     46
Whisky Sour                                      46
Whisky Toddy                                     46
Whisky Toddy, Old Fashioned..!                   46
White Plush                                      46
Wine Lemonade                     '.             47
69th Regiment Punch                              47
7th Regiment Punch                               47
        TELEPHONE CALLS




iiiBv
                                IJRINK




                    CBaSiC    The King of
                        TABLE WATERS



 Jefferson Ice Company
         whoi-esaue: ICE AND RCTAt L
                   PHONE MONROE 27S

     Office: 652 Grand Ave.                   Cfiicago
                   Corner Desplaines Street
  ICR     f Silver Lake, Wis.             Mendota Lake. Wis.
HOUSKS \    Powers Lake. Wis.             Henedict Lake. Wis*


   WM.             D.    ALGEO 8c                 CO.
                    MANUFACTURERS        OF




        Xa Jflor S)e Hlgeo
              CLEAR       HAVANA CIGAR

                     Vail Huitii Street, OliieaKi)
S. W. Cor. Marslifield Ave.       TELEPHONE WEST 2128



   AUGUST LUCHOW
                         N EW Y O R K
                      Sole Agent for U. S.

"Mur^buvaer Ibofbrau" " "©rtfltnal BXIsner"
          IROM

Hofbrauhaus Wurzbnrs:               (Tenossenschafts Hrauerci
        i5avaria                          Pilsen. Bohemia

Western Representative                CHICAGO OFFICE
 HANS LUCHOW                    30 N. LA SALLE ST.
                                        Tel. Franklin gi


           TOM            GALLIGAN
  Practical Beer ana (Uaste Pipe Cleaner
            ONE WHO KNOWS THE BUSINESS

        Dealer in Coil Gleaning Pumps and Supplies.
   Phone 6255 Monroe 174!) >V. Cliicagro Avc., Cliicago
   FRANK MANKE
                        FLORIST
            Cut Flowers, Palms                  and     Ferns
                     Funeral Designs a Specialty

Phone Yards 4547 2961 Wetitworth Ave., Chicago

   CyriUa Clear Havana Cigars
      JULIUS FERNBACH & CO.
                                   MAKERS


           20L205 E. 31st St., Chicago
I'lione Doufrtas 771                                    Automatic 72-225

J. T. BYCRAFT                                           ( OaKland 4031
     Manager                                P"0"®®\Auto. 72=858

    Heptune Linen Supply Co.
                                   Furnisliers of


 Frocks, Jackets, Vests, /Iprons and Toiuels
            544 E. 43rd ST., CHICAGO

           •p/fuve   CCS7 r,7L'-




                           CIGAR MANUFACTURERS
                     , Fuoo DC            "321 'TilVER. Street
                                                     C///CAGO-

Telephone Franklin 1966                              Open Day and Nlg^ht
         Automatic 32-347

     JOHN MUENCH & CO.
          Caterers
                     Bartenders' Friend
328 North Clark Street,                             =           Chicago

   Standard Laundry Co.
         ISlO-lSdO Wabash Ave., Chicago
          Hotel and Restaurant Work a Specialty.
                     BARBER TOWEL SUPPLY.
              Coat.s for Bar and Barlrer, to Rent.
                        APRONS I'URNiSHED.
            Table I.inen Furnished Restaurants.

ARTHUR B. IRWIN, Mgr.                               Phone Calumet 494
                             Drink


                                  stjite
 E. LENNKRT                                      TEL. FRANKLIN f) 1 1




    LEONARD k LENNERT CO,
                             Makers of the



           Sir Clifton Cigars
                       CLEAR HAVANA
                             OUR w i n n e r :
                 THE       BUI-L P U P S I Z E
                   NOW THE INJUNCTION SIZE


158-157 North Franklin Street,                              CHICAGO
            Factory: 14th Place and Sangfamon St.
Randolph (>(>74                Telephone                Canal 1 11



   The Marquette Piano Company
   310 The Shops BIdg. 19 N. Wabash Ave.
                      CHICAGO
/Vlarquette                                              Cremona
Player Pianos                                      Electric Pianos


.\ND()N CAIilOLL KOSK. I'l              .IAC015 .MORTKNSON. Vict'-rres.
HAS, K.scmcK'.Cji.sliicr                O. G. ROUHMNG, As^st. Cushlei-


   North Avenue State Bank
            North Ave. and            Larrabee St.
                             dllOAQO

  ASSETS OVER TWO MILLION DOLLARS
leiieral    Banking-,        Savings,        Bonds,      Mortgages
            Drafts on All Parts of the World

% Interest Paid onSavings Deposits.               Safe Deposit Vauits
           Your Business is Cordially Invited.
 Jt,i OPEN SATURDAY EVENINGS 6 TO 9 O'CLOCK (,i»
Thp: a u t o m a t i c SPRAA"
                                                                      THE

                                                                      VV H I X E

                                                                      .1 A R

                                                                       Purifies the
                                                                           Air

                                                                      Delights your
                                                                       Cusiomers

                                                                         Try Our
                                                                       Liquid Soap

                                                                       SALESMEN
                                                                        WANTED
                                                •I                        Phone
                                                                      Wahash 1525

THE UNIVERSAL UTILITIES COMPANY
       855-57 Rand - McNally BIdg., Chicago



  J. B. DeNORMANDIE
                    Linen Supply
                    PHONE             DREXEL             4961


4624 So. Wabash Ave.                                        CHICAGO
I'ufV Uoi'dim ShiM rii'S                       l>r.v -Moiioiude iirut Cli;iin|):ih'iie
Hushmill.^ Ii isli NVliiskey                   Monopoli- Ued Top ('Iminim^'iie
Cifi/.iuio Itiiliiiii Vdniioiith               In^diiiin cV W|ut;iUi-i Miirsniii
             lixt 111SliHi t on l)|•lUl^^ll^   Misipiil. C'oK'iiiie
('ui-khnrn i'orls                              Krislaly .Minei'iil Water
l.t'iden Hliini- iiiui Moselle Wines           Kt>yiil Navy H utn
Co.ssnrl (iorclon Madeifa                      Mont hlaiiu Fieiieh N'ertnoiitli



     ALEX D. SHAW 8c                                                  CO.
     New York                       Chicago                San Francisco
              WILLIAM                    F.    RUDOLPHY
     Manairer Chicago Branch. 905-906 Marquette Building


Tel     Harrison 5294                             Tel. Automatic 62-452


          A. L. BLUNT, M. D.
                                    OFFICE:

            9 W. Harrison St., Cor. S. State St.
                                   CHICAGO

RESIDENCE, 4043 Prairie Avenue
Tel. Kenwood 482
NICW YOKK                            Pilsiier-Buer^rerbrau
CHICAGO                              M lUMichner-Hofbrau
BOSTON                               W upTzburtfiT-IUierg-erbrau
ST. LOUIS                            Nuenibortfer-Tiicherbrau
CINCINNATI                           Culinbacher-Ri'/.zi Hrau

                                     Gorolsleiiier    Scb lossbrutineii


      RUDOLPH OELSNER
          IMPORTER                                   OF

      BEER & MINERAL WATER
Chicago Office^ 516 N. Clark Street
                  WM. SCHUMACHER, Mj{r.
       Phones North 1")',): Automatic                        17


              Phone Lake View 1545


UNION LINEN SUPPLY CO.
                     FURNISHES

         Coats, Aprons
              and Towels
4131-37 E. Ravenswood Park                                 CHICAGO

LANJ)AULr/r          LIMOUSINES                    Tt)URINO CAKS

              DAY AND NIGHT SERVICE.
                      Telf phones:
          Calumet 4077        Automatic 64-077


      HOSKINS AUTOMOBILE SERVICE
        (Jarant', 'iOlli Slreri iiiid Wiihash Ave.
Imported l''our-Cylinder Renault                        WE 60 ANYWHERE
    Cars used exclusively.                                 ANY TIME.

                             EATS
            CHILI JACK CO.
(/)
      1912 S. State Street                297 N. Robey St.
H     644 N. Clark Street                 9 N. Curtis St.
<     121 N. Fifth Avenue                 2609 Shetliekl Ave.
Ul                   C   U   I   C    A    O   O


                             EATS
                         STUYOKE


          ATLANTA
            The    Standard 10c                      Cigar
      CONN         BROS. CIGAR CO.
            115 W. Lake Street, Chicago
PHONE MAIN 1734                                AUTOMATIC 36-464
 Paris Linen Supply Co.
        FURNISHERS OF



       Restaurant Linen
       Bar Linen and
       Office Toilet Supplies

  PARIS              LAUNDRY                     CO,
       2330 Prairie Ave., Chicago
                  Tel. Calumet 619



High Grade ELBURN BOURBON
01" YORKSHIRE ««
    CHAS. SHAFFNER                            CO.
2:! N. Franklin St., Chicago          Phone /Vlain OOil

                  Phone Calumet ;!ll(l


  Hygienic Ice Company
     PURE DISTILLED WATER ICE
Plants, 2Gth St. and Cottage Qrove Avenue and
        (>r>th and State Streets, Chicago

 EL RECTOR"                           "LADY VERA"
 COPS R K.HI ED                          COPY UK. n TED
                    TEL. CANAL 447S


PHIL. C. NIEMAN
                  MANUFACTUKI^R OF

         Clear Ibavana Ciflars
2203 W. 12th Street             CHICAGO, ILL.
        Shows Who
Handles the Most Tr^de

  Improved Models of National
  Cash Registers have a
  separate drawer and cash
  counter for each bartender.

  This shows the proprietor who
  sells the most and keeps you from
  being blamed     for another's
  mistakes.




        The National
Cash Register Company
              Dayton, Ohio
