I
ClassXX^5:L
BflokA^^


   corancur uepusit.
                              EDITED BY
GEO. R. WASHBURNE and STANLEY BRONNER




                          PUBLISHED BY




                         LOUISVILLE




  A'/.y/-:'r/-:/-:.\'   ///   ava'av ./.w ioi' k ri:i-:\
                                ^-v'




     Copyright. 1911
     Copyright. 1914
liy liullctin Publishing Co.

         Louisville




            ••-*@CI.A;3T-J514
      #                      #orswc>r6                                    #
       HEN the      edition of !5Jcveragcs ~2)e~Cuxe was

>S^^^A                      first

   Km m published, the editors expressed the hope that
     ^^^^^^         the book would serve as a guide to connoisseurs
                    and those who serve them.                  That     this   hope
was realized is attested by the demand from those who enjoy
the good things of        life   all   over the United States and those
who have to do with the preparing and serving of these good
things, necessitating and culminating in the preparation                       and
publication of this edition.

       Since the publication of the former edition there has been
no diminishing of the agitation against the traffic                   that legiti-
mately supplies the       demand for beverages, but the increased
use of such beverages, which use               is   still   growing, along with
the greatest abhorrence of over-indulgence, demonstrates that
more and more of our people are using beverages moderately
and properly as they are intended              to   be used, and, therefore,
that a book of this kind fills          its   own peculiar niche and has
interest for the thousands and thousands of good citizens who

visit clubs,   hotels and such places where the monotony of life

is   broken.
       Much that was good in the former edition of !!^cvcragcs
~S>^~i.\x\^    is   retained in this edition, but there            is    sufficient

new matter added of the same high class to make this edition
practically a new work. The editors will feel amply repaid
for their efforts if this    edition      meets with the same favor ac-
corded the first edition of leverages ~3!)c~Cuxc.
gcotch and
    Irish   Whisky
tlie    biK reserve behind, wiiich has cost     tlie   sjieculator or liolder
in     turn so much, if not in downrijrht hard casii, in loss of
       its

interest on his money.   AH this lias been greatly to the advan-
tage of the article distributed. It may safely be said, that no

such matured fine spirit as the Scotch Whisky sold under the
best known brands, can be obtained for the     money in any other
description of spirituous liquors.   On tlie continent of Eui'o]ie,
there is virtually no old beverage spirits of native make sold. As
liqueurs,    and   in the   shape of a liqueur cognac, old spirits are
distributed in minute quantities, but in every part of the world
one can find fine old Scotch Whisky at a moderate iirice ready
to one's  hand, a matured wholesome s])irit.
     No country has as yet been able to manufacture Malt
Whisky of the style and quality which the best Highland Whiskies
furnish for the shippers blends. The chemistry of the Highland
stream and sky and of the peat cut from the mountain side, seem
in Scotland to have worked together to produce an article which
has nowhere else been rivalled. Bring the same malt, the same
peat, to the South, and use the water there, and you fail to catch
the subtle essences and vapours, which constitute the charm of
a fine Blend of Scotch, and there has been put together by the
clever blenders in Scotland a spirit, which stands well ahead in
that race for popularity in which all articles have to comjiete,
which claim world-wide acceptance. Scotch \\'hisky certainly
has run and won up to now, and we do not discern, anywhere,
a competitor which is even a good second, if quantity only is
taken into account.




        We are obliged to accord to the Scotch article the leading
place, which is bespoken by its volume of manufacture, the re
spective distillations for 1912-1;! being: Scotland 24, and Ire-
land under 10 million, proof gallons. But as to initial price from
the distillery and value on the market, Dublin Whisky still holds
the highest place.     The leading distillery there gets .5'   jier  —
gallon 25 o. p. for its whisky, which tops the record of the price
got by any Scotch Malt Distillery of late years. Scotland has
no great distilleries which export their whiskies in bottle, as do
some of the Dublin makers. Such firms as John Jameson & Sons,
and Sir John Power & Son, make, mature and bottle their inire
Pot-Still Whiskies and ship them under the aegis of their own
labels to all parts of the world.       Irish   Whisky therefore stands
distinctively out in this; that you can have the guarantee of the
actual maker to his article. This may be illustrated by the fact,
that the annual capacity of the leading Irish Pot-Still Distiller is
about a million gallons, whereas there is not a Scotch Hijrhlaiul
Malt Dislillery which during the last decadfe has made more than
a quaiter of that quantity. The difference is, that the best and
most approved Scotch Whisky is a blend sometimes of the makes
of twenty distillers, whereas for the best Irish an individual dis-
tiller is responsible for his   own make bottled "entire."   Blending
of Irish does take place, but for the best, one has to go to the
distiller direct, unlike the    Scotch article, for which a blender is
from the nature of things responsible.
                                                        By
                                                A. M.   I   IANAVER
                                              Of Hambuiyer Distillery
                                                  Pittshurgh. Pa.




                        Rye whisky and wry faces do not go together.
                   Sit down at home, at the chib or cafe, and
                                                               when the
                   choice, mild, mellow, and matured rye      whisky  is

                   served, you see before you the finest drink man
                                                                         is

                   capable of distilling from grain. You smile in con-
              templation, and comprehend how the expression
arose, "Give me a smile," meaning a drink,
                                                 around which
clusters only  smile, laughter and joyousness, the  good story
brimful of wit and humor and laughter.            One can understand
why the sah'ation lassies get their best ijickings from the lovers
of rye. One recalls Bobby Burns and his sweet
                                                  songs of the rye
       taught us in childhood's happy hours. Was it not
                                                              r>i.s-
fields,
marck, the greatest  statesman   of  the nineteenth century,  and
himself the proprietor of a  distillery, who  remarked,  "B.eer   is


for women, wine fin- men, and rye for heroes."
     In our country, with its rush and bustle and
                                                  perpendicular
drinking, one finds that some   men  do not understand  the fine

art of eating and drinking and living. You
                                              sometimes see such
                                          old  rye, gulp it down,
a man rush up to the bar, order a    fine
                                  again.   That    is like turning
take some water, and rush out
somersaults  in church— it is a sacrilege.   Oh,   no, my friend;
that is not the way to do.   Don't start a conflagration in your
                                                         Perpen-
stomach and then start the fire department after it.
dictular drinking leads to oblique vision.
     The right way is to greet King Rye with ceremony, rever-
                                                                 spirit, his
ence and affection, which his age, his strength, his
purity and his birth demand. Treat him right and he
                                                        will see
                                                       that  you
that you are treated right; alnise him and he will
                                                   see

suft'er. He permits you to look into nature's mirror.  The   law
                                               to him you  do to
of comijensation holds fast— "whatever you do
yourself."
         down, my friend, and ask for a choice real old rye, a
        Sit
                                                          eyes on its
nectar fit for the gods. Pour it slowly; feast your
golden hues.   Is it the  golden fleece for which  the  argonauts  of
               Inhale  its exquisite aroma;   enjoy  its superb bou-
old strived?
quet;     it          mind's eye the smiling rye fields, the rye
               In-ings to the
waving joyously     the  sun, and the troop of happy children
                         in

passing through.  Look   again, and the liquid amber, coupled
 with the word  Monongahela,   bring remembrances of George
WashiiiKlon (wlio also uwiieil a tlislillrry                  )   and the stirring days
of the whisky insurrection.                 Looi< again, and you see another of
the immortals, Lincoln, selling                  it.   Pour a little more; that        i.s


incense, indeed.   See the crown of nature's beads that puts a
diadem on King Rye. it is the essence of summer days concen-
trated in crystal. A proper palace for King Rye.
                       "I'ick him u]) carefully, handle with care;
                        l-'ashioned so   charmingly and debonair."
       lie   is    wi'lconu' cvcrywlu'rc.         Take liini to your heart and he
warms it, cheers you, puts you in the best spirits.
    So you ask me how rye whisky is made? Come with me to
one of the celebrated distilleries of the Monongaheia \'alley;
the Bridgeport distillery at South lirown.sville, i'a.    \Ve will
take the New York Central lines uij and come down on the
Penn.sylvania lines, both of wiiich pass through the distillery
property, and while you are looking at the \ast number of mills
and iron works in this valley, that succeed one another with
amazing rapidity until we get beyond Monessen, about forty
miles from Pittsburg, I will try to tell ou a little about the di.s-
                                                         .\




tillation of whisky before we reach the i)lant   and, by the way,   ;




what a number of di.stilleries there are in this \alleyl We first
pa.ss Finch's, then Tom Moore, while Large is a little in the in-
terior near Elizabeth, then Sunnyside, C.ibson, the Hamburger
Distilling Co., Thompson, Vandegrift, the two Old Gray dis-
tilleries, Emery, Lippincott, and a numbt'r of other smaller
distilleries.
    You know that Socrates thought the yeasting germ, the
germ of life itself, and, as you are well aware, all brewing and
distilling        is    founded on the fermentation of the              licpior   through
the yeast germ.
     Ancient Egypt had its beer, and there is no civilized coun-
try that does not have its li(|Uor.    Scientific brewing and dis-
tilling is based upon the famous     researches    of Pasteur.   'I'he

foundaton that he had has been      built  upon  1j\' others, so tiiat

to-day the yeasting and fermenting are scientific studies in or-
ganic chemistry, while the distillation it.self is a study in alco-
holmetry. If anywhere the adage holds good that "Cleanliness
is   next to Godline.ss,"          it   is in   a distillery, for the healthy yeast
germ and proper fermentation can only take i^lace where the
distillery is clean and sweet, and a good yield is then madi'.
       There           is   another thing that you should know before you
inspect the distillery, and that is that the entire plant is bonded
to the United States; that the Government          inspectors have
charge and supervision of everything that goes into the manu-
facture of whi.sky, and have complete charge of the warehou.ses
and the goods until they are tax-paid.
     We have now arrived, and after going through the power-
house, with its battery of boilers and its engines and light plant,
we see cars of clioice rye on the siding being emptied by convey-
ing machinery, wliich carries    tiie   grain into the cleaner.      It is
tlien weiglied and elevated, and from the elevators it is conveyed
to the mills, where it is ground and sent to the meal hoppers.
The malt is treated in the same way in separate malt mills.
The hopper scale is weighed by the Government inspector, and
the proper amount f)f rye dropped into the mash tub, where
it is continually stirred while cooking, and after it has been

cooked to the proper temperature it is cooled off, and the malt
put in and cooked at a certain temperature until the cooking
process is complete. Meantime the yeast has been put into the
fermenting tub. The cooked grain is then run through coolers
and cooled to the proper temperature and put in the fermenting
tubs, where it remains not exceeding seventy-two hours.       Mean-
time the distiller is busy taking the temperatures and making
his tests, and when the saccharine matter is all out, the fer-
mented liquor or beer is then run into a beer well, from whence
it is passed into a three-chamber still, then through a doubter and

run into a tank, from whence it is redistilled, sent to the cistern
through closed pipes under lock and seal, and then barreled in
the presence of the United States ganger, from whence it is de-
livered into the custody of the United States storekeeper as it is
passed into the \\;irehouses for storage and aging. The whole
process is interesting, and one could stand by the hour looking
at the various jihases of the fermentation.
     You ask me wiiy rye is preferred to other grains. Even
makers of Bourbon whiskies boast of the quantity of small
grains they use, as that indicates a better (|uality and sweetness,
and rye makes one of the sweetest whiskies it is possbile to
distill.

      You have noticed that    there    is   absolutely'   no opportunity
for adulteration; that the entire process is under the argus eyes
of the Government insjiectors, and probably there is no line of
industry that has less opportunity for mixing or adulterating
than the distillation of whisky, as you have seen for yourself.
     You seem surprised at the splendid buiklings, the large
massive warehouses heated by steam, so that there is a per-
petual summer, and the goods are maturerl much more rapidly
than in the olden times. And you also ask to see the bottling
house, where bottled-in-bond goods are completed.       You find it
a very busy place, the Government inspectors on the look-out
and the machinery busy, and the hands all intent on their work,
and you find the.se cases being shipped in lots to all jiarts of the
country.
     One of my friends in one of the .so-called prohibition States
sent me the following lines:
            "Drink and the world drinks with you           ;



             Swear olf. and vou drink alone."
J^ourhon
     Whisky
wounded and lay exhausted on the ground, Reynolds, fleeing on
horseback, saw his Captain, jumped from his horse, and insisted
on Patterson taking the horse and making his escape. This
Patterson was reluctant to do, as it seemed impossible that any
one without a horse could possibly escape from the Indians, but
Reynolds put his Captain on the horse and took his chances
without it. The result was that Reynolds was captured by two
Indians. He was left in charge of one of them, whom he knock-
ed down and then made his escape. Patterson was much grati-
fied upon meeting Reynolds, and, in reply to his question what
had prompted him to be willing to probably sacrifice his own
life, for his Captain, was told that it was because his Captain

reproved him when he needed reproof. Reynolds became a re-
ligious man, joining the Baptist Church, and, according to tra-
dition, became a Baptist preacher.     I have dwelled upon this

incident because it brings up the question in ethics as to what
influence the quart bottle of whisky may have had in changing
Reynolds from a habitual breaker of one of the Ten Command-
ments by Patterson violating the eleventh man-made "prohibi-
tion commandment," "Thou shalt not make, sell, or use an
intoxicating beverage." I leave the determination of this ques-
tion to my readers, for I fear I am digressing from my subject,

"Bourbon Whisky."
    The early settlers of Kentucky, like Noah when he had been
preserved from the flood, seemed to have felt the need for an
alcoholic stimulant.     Therefore, it is likely that as soon as corn
had begun to be grown in Kentucky some of it was converted
into whisky. In the beginning, of course, this was done on a
very small   scale,   and   in   a crude, jn'imitive way, but, as the
liquor distilled in this way,       from corn, in the early days of
Kentucky, became more and more popular, both on account of
its flavor as a beverage and its beneficial effect as a stimulant,
the reputation of Kentucky whisky conmienced to spread beyond
the borders of the State and a demand for the liquor from all the
surrounding territory ensued. Thus, the distillation of whisky
started by settlers of Kentucky for their own use, their families,
and friends, develojjed into a business to meet the growing de-
mand for what has since become Kentucky's internationally-
known product.        The first distilleries of the State were located
on farms; most of the farms of any importance having these
small stills, which were operated by unskilled men, and without
much regard to science. But when the Civil War occurred in
this country, a Federal tax was imposed on whisky, which re-
quired strict Governmental supervision, and, consequently,
many of these small stills were abandoned, with the result that
much larger quantities of whisky have been made in distilleries
 erected on        more   .scienlilic   and   ccoiioniic   prinuiplL's   than   had
 been previously made.
       The first whisicy made in Kentucky was produced exclusive-
 ly  from corn, which was grown right on the farms where these
 small stills had been set up. Later, it was found that the intro-
 duction of some rye with the corn, in the mash, increased the
 yield of spirits produced and improved the flavor.      Still later,
 it was found that barley, malted,     further increa.sed the yield.
 The fertile county of Uourboii was the largest producer of
 whisky in Kentucky in those early days, and it is said that the
 first still was erected there.  The whisky made in that county
 became known as "B()url)i)ii Whisky." Later, other counties be-
came celebrated for the quantity and character of their produc-
 tions of whisky, such as Nelson, Anderson, Fayette, Daviess,
Marion, etc., and in Kentucky, before the Civil War, the county
in which the whisky was produced became, as it were, a trade
mark for all the distilleries in such county, so that, among Ken-
tuckians, whisky was known by the county in which it was dis-
tilled.   But, outside of the State of Kentucky, Bourbon County,
whicli had been the largest producer of whisky, became the mcst
important source of supply for the demand for the goods from
without the borders of the State, and, con.sequently, Kentucky
whisky was linked with the name of that county.           Bourbon,
therefore, became a generic name, as known outside oi the
State, to all whisky made in the whole State of Kentucky of
which the largest percentage of grain, from which it was made,
consisted of corn.
         Kentucky, having succeeded so well in establishing a legiti-
mate commerce with Bourbon whisky, the distillers began to
manufacture other whisky with a larger percentage of rye, and
sometimes with a total of rye, known as "Rye Whisky," so that
for more than a quarter of a century all whisky made in Ken-
tucky has been known as either Bourbon or Rye whisky. As
indicative of the improvements made in the .scientific distillation
of whi.sky,    I   will cite the fact that the yield per bushel of grain
of about     two gallons and a quart of whisky has about doubled
within the last half century.In my own experience in the busi-
ne.ss,now pa.st forty years,  remember buying a crop of old-
                                        I


fashioned sour mash whisky, the yield of which was oidy two
and one-fourth gallons per bushel. Such a small yield as this
now would entail on the producer the payment of the (tovern-
ment tax of $1.10 per gallon on the deficiency for his failure to
obtain as much spirits from each bushel of grain as the Govern-
ment, after surveying the distillery, holds should be the mini-
mum amount produced in 1h(> iilant.
      Much of tilt' wliisky made in Kentiicl\y in its early history
was shipped by Hatboats down the Ohio and Mississi))])! Rivers
to New Orleans.   The reputation of Kentucky Bourbon whisky
has grown vastly since the Civil War, until now "Old Kentucky
Bourl)on" is a synonymous term for "the best whisky." While
Bourbon has probably become a generic name for whisky made
for aging purjuises where corn jireponderates in its manufac-
ture, Kentucky can never become generic except for whisky
made in that State, and Kentucky naturally revolts at having
whisky made outside of its boi'ders branded as made within its
borders.   The high reputation of Kentucky Bourbon whisky
among the finest beverages of the world is jealously regarded,
and has been well earned, for, as a beverage, either when taken
straight or in any of the many delightful, exhilarating mixtures
in which Bourbon forms the base, or, to mention more specifical-
ly, an old-fashioned Kentucky toddy or mint julep, there is no

finer drink known to man, either brewed, fermented, or dis-
tilled.
Domestic
      Gins
va." and that is the proper Eiiglisli word. "Geneva" is derived
from the Latin word "Juniperus," the French for Cin being
"Jenievre," and the Dutch calling it "Jenever."
     The Hollanders were the first nation to distill (iin. The
industry in that country dates back to the period when the
Dutch were the foremost seafarers and carried a broom at the
masthead, symbolical of sweeping the seas. They probably dis-
covered the Juniper berry along the Mediterranean shores.
      Holland is not a grain-producing country, and the various
grains used for distilling purposes are either of American oi'
Russian origin.
      Without going into much scientific detail as to the distilla-
tion of Holland Gin, it is probably of interest to know that rye
and varous cereals (principally Malted Barley) are ground,
and, in accordance with their starchy qualities, are subjected to
various degrees of heat. The "mash," a.s the mixture is called,
is allowed to ferment for seventy-two hours, after which it is

distilled.  This distillate is called Moutwyn, and is later re-di.s-
tilled with Juniper berries.    In the distillation of Old Tom, Dry
and Sloe Gins, a variety of herbs, seeds and roots is used, which
imparts a dirt'erent flavor to it than that which characterizes
Holland (Jin.     These gins have become very popular in this
country, and are mostly uso'd for the well known and .I'ustly
famous American mixed drinks, as Martini Cocktails, Gin
Rickeys, Gin Fizzes and many others.
      A (luestion which is very often asked is, "Does Gin improve
with age?" The answer to this question is in the affirmative,
but, as the improvement can only take place by the (jin coming
in contact with the wood of the cask, the Gin turns yellow, and
is not saleable, as the American consumer (for some unexplain-

able reason) requires Gin to be perfectly white. To humor this
whiin the distiller uses paraffine wax, which is boiled to a high
degree of heat and poured into the cask.          A thin coating of
paratfine is thus formed on the inner surface of the cask, which
prevents the Gin from coming in contact with the wood, and
consequently retaining its color.
      In concluding this short article on Domestic Gins, let us
rejoice that we are living in a country which is progressing with
amazng rapidity a country whose Government protects home
                   ;



industries,    and where the workingmen receive wages   higher
than those of other nations. We equally rejoice for the pa-
triotic American good sense which has made it possible for the
Domestic Gin industry to have become the important factor it
is   to-day.
Jsjew England
      Rum
       Mr. Davis thinks that it was about the year IGGO that lluiii-
bullion was clipped of two of its syllables, but the hrst mention
of the abridged     word in any public document in Barbadoes ap-
pears to have been in an act passed in 1668 to prevent the sale
of both brandy and rum in the tippling houses near the most
frequented highways or roads of the island. The word "Hum,"
however, occurs in certain orders of the Government and coun-
cil   of Jamaica as early as 1661.
     As to the exact date of the beginning of this industry in the
United States, Rum appears to have been manufactured in New
England before 1687, as "New England Rum" sold in that year
at Is. 6d. per gallon, which is practically to-day's wholesale
price for New Rum, not including the internal revenue tax.
       In the old days of this country many of the best   men of the
town of Boston,      in addition to being great ship owners, were
distillers of New England Rum, those two industries being put
down in the history of the times as two of the most important
in Boston, and the commodity itself was not only used as a
staple for family consumption and as a cheering adjunct to
official and social events, as the hiying of corner stones of pub

lie buildings and the building of churches, but was early used

as one of the great instruments in assisting to civilize and
Chrstianize our black brothers in Africa.       During all of the
time since, the distillation of Rum     has  been contined almost
entirely to New England, all the Rum made in this country, in
fact, having come to bear the distinctive name, "New England
Rum," as being different from the imported article.
       The Rum of domestic use to-day, which has been aged for
many years in the wood, is very different from the "hot, hellish,
and terrible liquor" above referred to. Much care is taken by
tiiose distillers   making a specialty of fine old Rum in the selec-
tion of their molas.ses, the fermentation   and distillati(ni, as well
as in the selection of the barrel and storage in which     it   is   kept.
Both as an art and an industry, the business of distilling Rum
has remained, as a sort of heirloom, through successive genera-
tions in some of our oldest and most resjiectable New England
families, who have taken pride and pains in bringing it up to
the highest attainable standard of jierfection.
     The general tendency noticeable in other lines of business,
too numerous to specify individually, toward consolidation, or
at least towards fewer and larger manufacturing iilants, has
applied as well to the manufacture of New England Rum, and
while in 1753 there were sixty-three distilleries in Ma.s.sachusetts,
and fifty years ago perhaps thirty small distilleries scattered
along the New England coast from New Haven to Portland,
there are to-day but eight in the I'liited States, all but one of
those being located in New England, and only two outside of
Massachusetts.
     While, during the past thirty years, there has been an in-
crease of about 125 per cent, in the production of distilled spirits
in general, there   has been practically no increase in the produc-
tion of Rum.
     The maximum production ol' iium reached 2,4:59,.']01 gal-
lons in the fiscal year ending June 30, 1880.
     The manufacture of Rum has not kept jjace with the in-
crease in population. This is due to the fact that drinking, like
other things, including architecture and clothes, has its styles,
varying from time to time, sometimes for good reasons, some-
times for none.
      For many years during tlie early history of the country,
Uluii, which is made only from molasses, was practically the
only strong liquor in use, as nearly all grain in the country was
consumed as food.
     American (Ryo and Houriion       whisky, the i)roducts of
                                        )




grain, may be .said to have come in style about the time of the
Civil War, although George Washington made some at Mount
Vernon, and there was considerable di.stillation throughout the
South,  its consumption increasing gradually for many years, it

taking the place formerly occupied by Rum as a national bev-
erage.   Fifteen or more years ago Scotch whisky began an in-
creasing popularity, and in the .same way, although perhaps in
a lesser degree, there has been during the past two or three years
an increasing demand for fine old Rum.
     Another reason for the lack of growth of the Rum industry
is found in the fact that alcohol for medicinal and manufactur-

ing ])urposes can be generally more cheaply jjroduced from grain
than from molasses. But many old-fashioned i)eople and good
Judges of liciuor still adhere to the use of our foi-efiithers' favorite
drink.
     It is evident that the actual ])r(i(iuction in gallons ha\ing

remained about the same, and the number of distilleries ha\ing
decrea.sed, those distilleries now in e.xistence, or some of them,
at least, mu.st be of much larger capacity than those of the early
days.  The largest Rum distilleries now in oi)eration are located
within the Boston Metropolitan district, one of them alone hav-
ing a capacity of more than 1,500,000 gallons per annum. Some
of them, however, still remain jiractically unchanged from our
grandfathers' days.
     In financial standing and in good rei)utation of tho.se en-
gaged in it, this industry compares favorably to-day as it did in
its beginning with any other in the country.
                                                                     By
                                                                     HEINEMANN
    j\merican                                            H. E. U.
                                                                    Editor

           Beers                                         American Brewers' Rei'iew
                                                                    Chicago




                          The beverage popularly known as "beer" in
                      America to-day is derived from the German type
 ^ll^
 Hp ^                 of    bottom fermented beer.
                                                  meant
                                                        In
                                                          the
                                                              the
                                                                 same
                                                                     earl\-
                                                                         as
                      clays of the country  beer
 ^fr
                                                     where         applies
 ^^
 ^|£?"'*^
           f
                      it does to-day  in  England,            it

                                                 by top fermentation,
   ^^                 to the types prepared
                      comprising ale, stout,    porter  and their va-
               That   is   to say,   it   applied   to   these   fiipcs,      although,
rieties.
                                               considerably since
of course, the character of them has changed
colonial days and, like other food products, has
                                                  been vastly im-
                                                              scale
proved since the articles are produced on an industrial
                                                      porters
instead of by home brewing. The ales, stouts and
                                                               still


maintain a certain vogue in Eastern States.
                                                                  has
     While derived from the German types, American l)eer
developed a  character  of  its   own.   European  experts who   have
                                                            to decide
traveled in this country have said that it is impossible
the question which   is better,    there being so much  difference of

                comparison         impracticable.  They  have  agreed
character that                 is

that American beers average fully as good as
                                                   German beers for
                                        Americans  traveling  in Ger-
those      who
            like their  character.
                                                                                   quality
many       report that American beers average higher                          in

                     Perhaps                this oi>inion    may      also be due to
than the German.
                                                       of American
personal preference of character. American critics
                             average  American    beers  with those
beers usually compare   the
                            without  stopping  to  reflect  that the
imported from Germany,
                         this  country are the  pick  of   the whole
export beers shipped to
                                             necessarily of excep-
country, specially brewed for export, and
                                   they would  not stand the hard-
tional quality because otherwise
                                  the American   food law excluded
ships of export, especially since
 the use of preservatives, like salicylic acid.
      The peculiar character of American beer was developed
                                                                     in

                                          of the  public taste.   It is
 response to the peculiar requirements
                                             persons  that  American
 often said by thoughtless or uninformed
 brewers ought to return to the original German
                                                        t\pe of l)eer.

 But those who have tried it— and there        are   many—   ha\e in-
                                                                   and
 variably found that there was no demand         for such  beers,

 have been obliged to give them up.
     When Ihe American wants a drink lie wants a drink. W'lien
the German wants a drink of beer he expects to get a small meal.
The American wants a light, thin, .sparkling, snappy beverage
with a good aroma and spicy taste, and he also wants a beverage
that is pleasing to the eye, because he drinks from a gla.ss,
where the German drinks from a stone mug. This last reciuire-
ment has given extraordinary importance to the matter of ap-
pearance in American beers.         A German does not object to
haziness or even cloudiness in beer, in fact the best German and
Bohemian beers are always cloudy, particularly when served
almo.st ice cold, as is the practice in this country. The American
wants his beer clear and brilliant. He also wants it very cold.
Low temperature freciuently causes precipitation of albuminous
matters in the beer with consequent cloudiness. Hence, Ameri-
can beers cannot have the heavy body of German beers. They
also average a trifle lighter in alcohol than German beers.
     Another circumstance that lias contributed to the modifica-
tion    of the original   (Jernian   type into the modern American
tyjie   is   the great exjjansion of   tlie   bottle beer industry.   This
is   almost exclusively American.       IJottlebeer is comparatively a
recent development in Kurojje.         Tiie domestic ice chest is not so
universal in Europe, and it is therefore   more difficult to keep
beer in the house. Bottle beer is exposed to greater hardships
than keg beer. Where keg beer goes there is always the neces-
sary furniture to keep and tap it, whereas bottle beer goes into
many places where there is scant provision for handling it
properly, which is a matter of great importance with so per-
ishable an article as beer generally is.   This condition of the
market has contributed further to the thorough clarification of
American beer .so as to eliminate all substances which may lead
to deterioration when kept for a long time and exposed to heat
and cold by untrained hands. The matter of .stability thus
acquires exceptional importance in American beer, and the
jiroblem has been solved with a fair degree of success.      It is

the object of research at present and promises an early com-
plete solution.
        As is well known, the chief base of mo.st types of beer is
barley malt.   American barleys have a higher albumen content
than German barleys, and, partly to offset this excess, partly
to produce the light character demanded by the American taste,
almost all American beers are made with an admixture of other
grains to add to the starch contained in the barleycorn.      I'"'or

this purpo.se rice and corn are u.sed, being freed from the husk
and, in the case of corn, from the germ, in order to eliminate
matters that are objectionable to the taste.
     In the production of beer, the barley is malted, which means
it   sprouted to a certain degree, found by long experience to
     is

afford the proper measure of dissolution of the starch and al-
bumen and to develop the required amounts of diastase and
             —
peptase ferments which convert starch into sugar and dextrin
                                 —
and modify the albumen after which the malt is (juickly dried
and heated to a sutticient degree to stop growth and produce
tiie desired aromatic properties.   The malt is ground and
mashed. To mash means to mix with water of certain tempera-
ture and by constant stirring and adjustment of temperatures
to extract and modify the solid constituents of the grain, chiefly
starch, albumen and mineral matters.      It is in the ma.sh that

rice or corn products are added, after being boiled separately.
The liquid run off from the mash tub, called "wort," is run into
a copper kettle and boiled for a certain time, hops being added
while in the kettle. The object served by the hops is mainly to
give aroma and taste, but they also act as a natural preserva-
tive.   The wort is then run over coolers, extreme care being
taken to prevent access of foul air or substances which might
introduce germs that would start undesirable fermentations.
The wort is run into fermenting tanks, and yeast admixed. The
yeast is a ferment which splits up sugar into carbonic acid and
alcohol, just as it does in bread, only in wort it acts more
strongly.    When the desired degree of fermentation is reached
the  wort is run into casks, where it is kept for a time to undergo
secondary or slow fermentation ami to allow solids to settle
out.   When it has reached the degree of aging and clarification
that is necessary it is racked, or filled off, into shplping pack-
ages. During the storage or aging period most of the carbonic
acid gas has escaped, and in order to restore the life and
sparkle which depends upon this gas, some young wort is added
before the beer is filled into the packages, or the beer is car-
bonated, that is, the fermentation gas is reincorporated with the
liquid under pressure.     The beer is filtered before going into
the packages.    Bottle beer goes through elaborate bottling ma-
chinery, and      is   usually pasteurized.
    Some types of yeast, while working in the beer, rise to the
top and form a thick film, and are skimmed off" or allowed to
overrun.    They are called top-fermenting. Other types settle
on the bottom when a certain degree of fermentation has been
reached.    They are called bottom-fermenting. They produce
different tastes and aromas. American beers are prepared with
the bottom-fermenting yeast, except the ales, stouts and por-
ters, which, like all English beers, are prepared by top-fermenta-
tion.
          All through these processes, infection by foreign     germs is
carefully avoided.        It   has been said by a prominent food official
                                                                           —



that the only perfectly clean food factory           is   the brewery, and
beer an absolutely clean article of food.
    The average composition of American beer is 5.29 per cent,
extract, consisting chiefly of sugar, dextrin,        albumen and min-
eral substances, and .'5.82 per cent,       by weight of alcohol, the rest
being water. This makes a content of about i) per cent, nutritive
matter. The solid content of milk runs ordinarily from 12 to 14
per cent. It is thus seen that beer possesses considerable nutri-
tive value.
     It   is   chiefly as a food relish,   however, that beer maintains
that great popularity, which in the year 1913 showed in the
consumption of 66,933,393 barrels. It is thoroughly understood
                                    —
by physiological chemists and while perhaps not .scientifically
understood by the people generally, carried out in practice
that relishes are quite as important in the nutrition of man as
tho.se articles which supply the chemical constituents recjuired
for building tissue and supplying energy. It is not so important
irhat we eat as hoiv we eat.     A meal enjoyed "sets" well. The
best meal taken without relish, will not benefit a man.        Beer
supplies relish to the taste, and by the alcohol content stimulates
the mind and enhances the social pleasures of the meal. Therein
lies its chief virtue.  By the moderate stimulation it afl'ords, it
gives to the .system the relief from the monotony of the work-
a-day world which every normal person craves, and, satisfying
it in a proper way, fore.stalLs excess.  It is thus one of the most

effective agencies of temperance.
      It would be unheard-of to conclude an article on beer with-

out saying .something of its history.          Much has been written on
that subject, but      it   was never dealt with in a really thorough-
going manner until Mr. John P. Arnold, of Chicago, published
his book on the "Origin and History of P>eer and Brewing,"
which was was gotten out in 1911 as a memorial of the twenty-
fifth anniversary of the founding of the Wahl Henius Institute
of Fermentology. A few passages from this monumental worlv
will shed a better light on the anti(iuity of beer in the history
of the human race and its intimate entwining with the customs
of i)i'iniitive society than could any other statement. Mr. Arnold
shows     that   the use of intoxicants      was   not    only a \ery   earl\-
practice, but most closely a.ssociated with religion. Ceremonial
dances, vapors of a narcotic character, and intoxicants of various
kinds were early employed to produce those states of spiritual
exaltation or self-hypnose which were believed to place man in
direct    intercourse with deity.          The following quotations are
from Mr. Arnold's book          :




     "Cerevisia (the Latin name for beer), to judge by its ety-
mological derivation and its history, stood originally for fer-
                                                                    :




mented 'wax' or 'honey-comb water,' and in a history of beer it
stands conspicuous as the most primitive form of fermented
liquor, manufactured by prehistoric man even before he cul-
tivated cereals, before he knew how to bake bread with the aid
of yeast, and before he understood how to brew beer out of
cereals or bread.     '''
                            *       *

      "Pliny has left us a Keltic expression for a species of cereal
which is of fundamental significance for the history of beer.
It is the word 'brace.'   'The Gauls,' he remarks XVIII, II, 'have
a kind of spelt peculiar to that country. They give it the name
(tf   'brace.'
        "While this Keltic word, therefore, means above all a species
of cereals, spelt, or a variety of wheat, which because of its very
white flour was employed mainly for brewing beer, it came about
that this name for a cereal beca'me also the name for the inash
material, the malted 'brace,' or malt, but this malt, 'the soul of
beer,' as it has been termed by several writers, became the patent
name for a whole number of popular expressions, all of them
intimately connected with the jirocess of brewing, with the ac-
tivity of thebrewer, and with the calling or profession of the
brewer.
                                —                    —
     "This Keltic 'brace' so designated by Pliny is: Irish for
malt: brae, brath, brach, genit, braich, or bracha, corresponding
with Welsh and t'ornish: brag, whence Welsh bragaud (a kind
of beer). Old English bragot (a kind of beer). Modern English
bracket (a kind of beer), and means in all Keltic tongues 'malt.'
    "From this Keltic parent word are derived the Latinized
words of the early and later middle ages whereof we cite a few:
Bracium crushed malt, mash materials; bracium pressum
             :




crushed malt, mash materials; brasina malt mill; braceator,
                                            :




braxator: the brewer; braxatorium, bracitorium the brewery.
                                                      :




     "And in modern French, 'brasser,' to brew 'bras.serie,'
                                                          ;



brewery; 'brasseur,' brewer; 'brassin,' the brew; and 'brai,'
'bray,' 'brais' (Old French), malt, crushed malt.
     "Derived from the Irish 'brach' and the Welsh 'brag,'
'bragio' sprout, we find a kind of aromatic and sweetened ale, the
'bracket,' or 'bragaut,' sweetened with honey.   'Rragget Sunday'
is Mid-Lent Sunday, when it was the custom to celebrate with

'bragget.'    The Irish 'bruighfer' in olden times was a public
functionary, and at the same time public hospitaller.
     " 'Braga,' 'bragga,' 'braka' are also beers of the Cossaks,

Tai'tars, Ruthenians, etc.
     "The Keltic has the same root word for 'to brew' as the
Anglo-Saxon: breowan Old High (German: briuwan; Gothic:
                                ;



briggwan; Old Norse: brugga; Middle High German: bruwan;
Modern English: to brew; Modern German: brauen.
    "In following up these traces, we meet with relationship
much more ancient than all these, namely with the Indo-Germanic
'bhru," whence too, the Phrygo-Thracian beer, 'bryton,' takes its
name.    But more than that, according to the etymological au-
thorities, the root Tor brewing and bread is the same, about
which Prof. Fr. Kluge says: 'In lii'cad it would be wrap])ed
up in the si)ecial significance of "baking."     Hence we again
                                                       '




call attention to the theory, several times promulgated by us in
this work, that brewing and baking went together in prehi.s-
toric times.      Indeed,   we go further than that.           We claim that
the primary activity of baking, namely, the prepai'ation of the
bread, and tiie primary activity of brewing, namely, the prepara-
tion of the bread mash (dough mash), is really one and the same
The linguistic conception was the .same, in the al)original form of
the Indo-European tongue (says Klug) and we claimed that the
              (i. e., that which is expre.ssed by the verb) is also
activity itself
identical inbrewing and baking. We do not mean to say, how-
ever, that brewing and baking           —
                                    as one might be inclined to
suppo.se from the identity of the root 'bhru'              —
                                                   originated both
at the same time.      Indeed, 'baking'      is   more ancient than 'brew-
ing,' and in this sense, too, the roasted or toasted dough-cake is
older than the liquor brewed out of this 'bread.'     But just be-
cau.se 'to make a bread-ma.sh' is derived from 'to make bread,'
for this very same reason brewing is derived from 'bread-mak-
        "
ing.'




                                 ^   3ff''"^'^
A Bottle of
    English Beer
     IJurtun-on-Treiil lies in a basin ol' marl and fj^ypsum which
strongly impregnate the water collected in the brewery wells.
The water is, therefore, very "hard," and this, as we shall see,
is    of great benefit.
    Good water is indispensable to good brewing, but ab.solutely
pure water (oxide of hydrogen) is never met with in nature.
Its solvent properties     are so great that it dissolves more or less
of most substances with which it comes in contact.               The smallest
trace of organic matter renders           it   utterly   unfit   for brewing
purposes; no matter how bright and sparkling it may appear
to the eye, such water will not "keep," and therefore the Beer
which migiit he l)rewed from it would not keep either.
    "Hard" water is suitable only for Ale, not for Stout. It is
this simple fact, and not mere caprice, which has singled out
Dublin as the more appropriate birthplace for Stout.
    "Soft" water extracts more from the malt than is desired
by the brewers of Ale, while the hard Burton water has less
attinity  for the albuminous principles contained in the malt.
Much in the same way when peas are boiled in soft water they
are reduced to pulp, but if boiled in hard water their outside
.skin is toughened, and they retain their individual shape.
      It is frequently supposed that the water u.sed for brewing

at Burton is taken from the River Trent.     This, of course, is a
           —
mistake It is drawn from wells. The demands made by brew-
ers upon these wells of late years have sometimes .severely taxed
their resources, and the si)ring water is now used only for con-
version into Ale.
     But we must not linger o\er the crystal water, fresh from
its   rock depths, for we have to \'isit the maltings.
                                                     These great
detached buildings stretch in a long and uniform line as far as.
the eye can carry, and they are used exclusively for the purpose
of converting the barley into malt, which must be done ere it is
fit   for brewing.
     The grain be.st suited to brewing Beer is barley, and much
depends on the character of the -soil that grows it, as well as on
the dryness or wetne.ss of the .sea.son.
     It is not every kind of barley that will make good malt, and

great is the care and zeal exercised at Burton to obtain the very
choicest and most suitable growths, no matter whether they be
from the United Kingdom or abroad.
     The operation of malting is performed as follow\s: The
barley is first placed    in   shallow ci.sterns, where it is .steeped in
water, and afterwards spread out to the depth of a few inches
on large drying floors.
     It (juickly gets warm of its own accord, and under the com-

bined inOuence of warmth and moisture it .soon begins to .sprout.
                                                                     ;




when this lias jiroceeded a certain length it is dried by the kiln,
which, of course, stops further germination, and, wherein the
original insoluble starch of the grain has, by Nature's own
magic, been converted into soluble malt-sugar.
     If dried at a low temperature it is "Pale Malt," from which
Pale Ale is brewed but if roasted at a greater heat it is partially
                     ;




carbonized, and becomes      "Brown Malt,"     suitable for   brewing
Stout.
    This is the only reason for the ditl'erence in color between
Ale and Stout.
    The brewer crushes the malt between heavy rollers to break
the husk, and the malt-meal is then thoroughly mixed with
warm water in the mashtun by a ferocious instrument called a
"porcupine."     The malt is finally e.xhausted by a huge overgrown
watering pot, tei-med a sparger. It has long revolving arms,
and as the water descends in a gentle shower it carries with it
what remains soluble in the malt, and the "grains" only, corre-
sponding with the tea-leaves in the pot, are left behind. The
resulting liquor, now called "wort," is then strained olf and
transferred into coppers, where it is boiled for several hours
with the hops.
      After sufficient boiling the wort is rapidly cooled in refrig-
erators containing long coils of pipes, through which a stream
of cold water continually runs.
      The cooled wort is still not a bit like Beer. Even a tee-totaler
might drink of this particularly nasty and mawkish fluid if he
could bring himself to do so, for thus far it contains no alcohol
this can be produced only by the agency of fermentation.
      Fermentation is started by inoculating the wort with pure
yea.st.  Yea.st is a vegetable organism, consisting of myriads of
microscopic cells or globules, which rapidly multiply in the
"wort" at the expense of certain of its constituents; and these
minute cells are endowed with the marvelous power of elab-
orating alcohol, or, in other words, of transforming the dull and
lifeless wort into sparkling Ale.
      The newly-born Pale Ale is then racked into casks and
stored   away in vast quantities that certainly look sufficient to
meet any demand, but which rapidly melt away as the thirsty
season comes on.
     Beer reserved for export bottling is brewed from the choic-
est materials. It is, indeed, an altogether superior quality, and

is   priced accordingly.
Qalifornia
       Wines
tively higli sugar and low acid point. 'I'lie princiiial counties
are Yolo,   Sacramento, San Joaquin, Madera, Fresno, Kings,
Tulare, covering the great Sacramento and San .loaquin Val-
leys, and Sail liernardino County.
     As compared with the immense output of France and Italy,
our annual production of about 45,OO0,(K)O gallons is small, but
it must not be forgotten that it has taken those two European

countries nearly 2,000 years to plant their extensive vineyards
and create a world-wide market for their wines. Pliny, who is
so rich in precious information on the agricultural and social
advances in Italy, tells us that Italy opened her hills and plains
to the triumphal entrance to the god Dionysus about 120 years
B. C, and the cultivation of the grape has gone on uninterrui^ted-
ly ever since.  Every generation has jioured forth new cai)ital
to   enlarge its inheritance of vineyards.
       The vine was introduced     into   France by the conquering
Roman legions and practically the same conditions as in Italy
prevail there, only that a small area of the north of France does
not produce grapes, while in Italy there is practicallx' no section
where grapes are not grown and wine made.
     The cultivation of the vine in Germany, whicli covers a
comparatively small acreage when compared with Italy and
France, ccjmmenced after the death of the Roman Emperor.
Marcus Aurelius Probus. He reigned from 27G to 282 A. I).,
and directed much of his attention to clearing Gaul of the Ger-
mans. For over eighteen centuries, therefore, the Germans have
also been cultivating their hillside \'ineyards and winning fame
with their fine white wines.
      The viticultural industry in California, on the othej- hand,
is really only half a century old, although the Franciscan Fathers

planted the grapevine in California shortly after their arrival
at San Diego, in 17()!). As the other missions were established,
small tracts were planted close around their houses of worshi}).
The Padres guarded them jealously with high adobe walls, culti-
vated the x'ines carefully, gathered their fruit, and made wine,
which was used in their religious ceremonies, or consumed by
the good Fathers, their occasional visitors and their immediate
retainers.
      Soon after the cession of California to the United States,
some  of the new settlers, .seeing the fertility of the Mission
grape, conceived the idea of abandoning gold hunting and en-
gaging in the business of winemaking. Coar.se, heavy wines
were made from the Mission grapes and when they were tasted
by discriminating wine drinkers, it was predicted that California
would never be able to turn out Wine that would be acceptable to
people used to the foreign brands.
      But time has pi-oved tliat they were mistaken, for as soon
as it became evident that the European varieties of grapes would
thrive in California and produce wines similar to the foreign
types the Mission vines were uprooted and today the extent of
these grapes probably does not total more than a couple of thou-
sand aci-es, of the 160,000 acres we have in wine grapes alone.
     However, but    little   advance was made toward increasing
the area of viticulture until 1859, when, through the publication
of vine articles in the reports of the State Agricultural Society,
and in the newspapers, a general and widespread interest mani-
fested itself in vine i)lanting and the area of our vineyards be-
came greatly increased. A large proportion, however, of these
new plantations consisted of table grape producing vines.
     In the early sixties our State Legislature sent a commission
abroad to secure the finest varieties of grapes in Europe and
Asia.   This resulted in planting better varieties for the table,
for the winepress and for raisin curing.    But it was not until
about 1880 that the foreign varieties of grapes were set out ex-
tensively, for up to that time there were only a limited few who
believed that any grapes could be as good as the old Mission va-
riety.
     Through the persistent efforts of a few enterprising viti-
culturists, .small quantities of wine were produced from imported
varieties,   whose character showed such superiority over those
made from the Mission, that new faith in the future of Cali-
fornia wines was born, and the belief si)read that under proper
conditions, our State mightsome da.\- make wine of a superior
grade, and eventually rival some of the better wines of European
countries.
    After fifty years of patient, costly experimental work and
the expenditures of vast sums in repairing the ravages of the
phylloxera and Anaheim diseases, the great goal has been reached
and today California wines are considered the equal of tho.se
produced in France, Italy and Germany. Even abroad they ad-
mit this, for at the International Exposition, at Turin, Italy,
in 1911, a new brand of California champagne received the
"grand prix," the highest award which the exacting jury could
confer.
     Another proof of the superiority of American wines is the
test they .stood at the St. Louis World's Exposition in 1903, when
they were placed in competition with the best of every great
grape-growing and wine-producing nation in the world. Out of
thirty-odd entries of wines, California alone was awarded three
grand prizes and nineteen gold medals. In proportion to our
entries, California received more prizes for its wines, brandies,
vermouth and champagne than any other exhibitor at home or
abroad. The wine jury was comprised of twent.y-one members,
of which seventeen were foreigners. The latter included seven
experts from France, four from Germany, and some from Italy,
Chili, Japan and Canada.      The distinguished jury, as competent
and impartial, perhaps, as the world could supply, acknowledged
the merits of our wines and rewarded our winemakers accord-
ingly. The importance of their decision may be understood when
it is realized that it took ninety-five points to win a grand prize,

and to secure a gold medal, the product had to score an average
of ninety points.
    At expositions in the great wine-producing centers of Eu-
rope,we have also been able to win recognition. Gold medals
were awarded California wines at Paris, France, in 1899; at
Genoa, Italy, in 1892; at Lyons, France, 1894; at Bordeaux,
France, in 189.5; and at the Paris World's Exposition, in 1900,
when our wines carried off four gold medals, nine silver medals
and nine bronze medals, notwithstanding that the choicest quali-
ties were not permi
                      FOR WillTF WINES.
Burger                          Joliannisberg Riesling
Chasselas                       Muscadelle de Bordelais
Colombar                        Petite Pineau
Folle Blanche                   Sauvignon Vert
Franken Riesling                Sauvignon Blanc
CJray Riesling                  Semi Hon
(]i-een   Hungarian             Traminer
Gutedel                         Verdal


                      FOR SWEET WINES.
Burger                          Mission
Carignan                        Mourisco
Cataratto                       Muscat of various varieties
Feher Zagos                     Pedro Ximenes
Folle Blanche                   Palomino
l'\irmint                       Trousseau
Jusoglia                        Tokay
Malvoisie                       Sultana
Mataro                          Verdelho
Malaga                          Zinfandcl


     There are two distinctive varieties of wine produced in
CiiliCornia that have won considerable popularity throughout
the land.   One is Zinfandel, a claret type, made from the Zin-
fandel grape, which is supposed to be of Hungarian origin, but
on account of the carele.ss marking of the cuttings when they
were first imported into California its actual derivation is un-
certain.  It is a grape that bears very abundantly, the berries

being small and very closely packed together, and produces an
agreeable light table wine, soft and smooth.
     The other wine to which I refer is, Angelica, a favorite
                                              —
with women. In reality, it is not a wine at all, considering that
                                             —
"wine is the fermented juice of the grape" as it is made by
mixing about one-third (some manufacturers use less) brandy
with two-thirds grape juice fresh from the press.
j\ Short History
      of Champagne
wines became practically obsolete, and any wines cominp from
there were generally supposed to be sparkling.      Cradiially,
however, other provinces and countries began to produce spark-
ling wines, and became known to everybody as Champagne,
whether made in Bordeaux or Borgougne province, or America,
Germany, Italy or Austria.
      At the same time, the original houses were growing in size
rapidly and continuously, and their capacities grew until now
some of the large hou.ses of France have stocks of 11^,000,000
bottles.  Thirteen millions is easily said, but when one stops to
realizt' what enormous space 1,000,000 bottles will retjuire, and
then multiply      it   by thirteen, .same .seems almost an absurdity,
especially   when the elaborate process and long time it         re(iuires
is   taken into consideration.
           We have also cellars in America with capacities of from
500,000 to 2,000,(100, all made on the same process, and with the
same elaborate care. None but the choicest of grapes are used,
and only from .selected locations. When the vintage season
arrives they are hauled to the winery, where they are pressed
and the juice run off into large casks to ferment. So far the
process has been very simple, but now the Chamiiagne expert
gets in his work and intelligence, blending the various juices, so
as to make one cuvee, or homogeneous mass, perfect in taste,
color, acidity and bouquet.   After the cuvee is made it is ready
for bottling, where the second fermentation takes place.    When
fermented they are lowered into the cellars to cool off and ri])en.
       The ripening period usually takes two and one-half to three
years, after which time the  now Champagne can be put on the
market if necessary, but the first-class cellars rarely attempt to
put their brands out before four or five years. When the wine is
bottle ripe   it   is   put on tables "surpointe;" that is, the bottles
are all neck down.         After it has repo.sed on the tables for twenty-
four hours the "remeuer" i)roceeds with his daily <)])eration of
iiandling each bottle by giving it a rotary shake for two to six
weeks, at the end of which lime the wine is sui)pos('d to be
crystal clear, the sediment formed by fermentation having been
worked down to the cork.
     The next operation is the disgorging or taking out the sedi-
ment. This is done neatly, easily, and with little lo.ss of wine
or sparkle by experienced men, and the syrup is then added.
Before adding any .syrup the wine is tart and is called "Brut,"
meaning raw. The amount of .syrup added usually designates
the grade thereof, under the names Sweet, Medium, Extra Dry
or Special Dry, etc. The bottle is then recorked with a new and
expensive finishing cork, which is fastened down by means of a
jjronged wire, and the bottle is then ready for the packing room,
where    it    is   again piled up for a weeiv or so to repose and
assimilate.
     When needed for market, each bottle is examined with
candle light, same as candling eggs, to separate the defective
bottles. The defective bottles are those from which the sedi-
ment has not comjjletely disappeared, or with pieces of cork,
etc.    After this process the bottles are ready to be dressed up
for    market with a fancy cap or       foil,   handsome   labels,   and
wraj^ped in neat tissue paper, to be cased up in cases of twelve
l)ottles or twenty-four half bottles, and usually sell at $12.00
and $14.00 per case, up to $22.00 and $24.00 per case. One Ohio
firm   commands the ])rice of $22.00 and $24.00 per case for one
of their brands, and $14.00 and $1(5.00 for another.
     American Champagnes or sparkling wines are coming to
the front very rapidly, owing to many reasons, viz: American
push and enterprise; the American article has a natural bou-
ciuet of its own, given it by the grape, and not added as in the
imported article; the efferve.scense is superior, and the methods
used are identical; and last, but not lea.st, the difference in price
at which the two articles are sold.     The imported article costs
no more to produce than the home product, but with $9.60 duty
added, $2.00 consular fees, $1.00 transportation, and $10.00 at
least added by the lavish way in which they are boomed, plus
the original cost of $9.00 per case for twenty-four half bottles,
and the amount of $31.60 is completed, about the average cost
of the imported article.
     The above short perusal on the production of Champagne
covers it in general, but the fact must not be overlooked that the
real work occuiiies a space of time of two and one-half to three
years, and each bottle is handled from 160 to 240 times, and
has been under the diligent care of careful supervision contin-
ually; and the easiest and most pleasing operation is the last,
that of popping the cork to the ceiling, and toasting all your
friends to a long life and a merry one.
'rhe Wines
        of France
five   arrondissementa of      Department of Champagne, where
                            tlie

Champagne grapes are grown         Chalons sur Marne, Eperney,
                                   :




Rheims, Sainte-Mene Hould and Vitry-le-Francois, but the right
to the name of genuine French Champagne is now limited to
the wine made from the grapes of Rheims and Eperney.
     In general parlance, when the wine of the Champagne dis-
trict is referred to, the sparkling wine is meant, yet, in this
same district, still wines are made that are claimed by some to
be the best in France. At one time there was quite a contro-
ver.sy as to whether the still wines fi m Champagne or Bur-
gundy wines were the better. Of the red wines grown at
Rheims, the two finest are the Rilly and Bouzy.
     The Sauterne district comprises a portion of the Depart-
ment of Gironde and jiart of the Medoc, and is called in France
the Graves. The soil here consists of .sand and gravel, mixed
with more or less clay, so that one would hardly expect to have
such luxuriant vines as produce the popular Sauterne wines.
It is from another part of the Gironde, where, likewise, the soil

would appear to be almost worthless, that the Medoc wines, or
Clarets, as we know them, are produced.
      The most famous red wines of France ai'e those from the
Burgundy district, and known by this name. The vines are
grown on the Cote d' Or, which is a chain of hills averaging
from 800 to 1,000 feet in height. For thirty miles the vineyards
extend in one continuous row on the sides of these hills. The
soil is of yellowish red, accounting for the name of the district,
and Burgundy is probably the oldest wine-producing district in
entire Europe. One authority gives his views of the best Bur-
gundy wine in the following language    :  "In richness of flavor,
and in perfume, and all the more delicate qualities of the grape,
they unquestionably rank as the finest in the world."
      The Department of the Pyrenees Orientales is another
where vineyards in full leaf and all their beauty may be seen
stretching out mile after mile, both on the level land and on the
hillsides.  Here, the very drie.st and, likewise, the sweetest of
wines are made in the same neighborhood.          The dry wine,
known as Grenache wine, which, through a peculiar process of
manufacture, partakes more of the nature of a liqueur, is laid
away in cellars for many years before it is said to be really fit
for use.    From the same neighborhood comes Muscat wine,
which is very sweet, and for the first year is like a syrup, Init,
after the second year, becomes clear and acquires the bouquet
which has given it its reputation. Maccabeo and Malvoysie are
two more liqueur wines made in this vicinity, and a large num-
ber of other wines, also grown in this department, are classified
under the name of Rousillion wines.
    According to an old narrative, on the left border of the
Rhone, in the commune of Tain, one of the Queen's courtiers,
in   the year 1225, wishing to leave court               life,   built    himself a
retreat on an isolated         hill.     It   became known as his hermitage,
and he experimented with wine-making there with great suc-
cess.  This is where the world was given the wines that have
since become celebrated as the Hermitage wines.      The vine-
yards, though small, produce wines of such rare excellence that
their fame has spread wherever wine is drunk.    Both red and
white wines are made here, but the white wine is the be.st and
the one that has ac(iuired fame.
      The     wines      .specifically     mentioned    above    constitute          the
classes of the best known of the                many different kinds that ai'e
|)r(i(luced    in    France, but. as already stated, other beverages
made from wine have added to the greatness of the industry in
this country.          In the year I'.WA, the art of distillation was in
troduced      in    France, and, being especially adojited in the Cham-
pagne district, re.sulted in the i)r()(luction of wine Brandy, which
has become more known under the term of Cognac. This name
was applied because most of the Brandy was distilled in the
city of   Cognac,       in   the Heijartment of Charente, but, contrary
to .some pojudar belief,           Cognac Itrandy is not          distilled     from
the sparkling wine           known    as Champagne, but           is   made from
the wines produced in the              Champagne district.
      Litpieurs and ('ordials are           made from wines              distilled    or
blended with various herbs and plants.    Here, again, the monks
were the originators, and to them the world is indebted for the
I)roduction of tho.se Cordials that are to-day .so popular, and
whose manufacture has developed into a large industry. The
art of making the different Liqueurs was closely guarded in the
cloisters where they were originally made, and the processes
have always been regarded as a valuable secret, as for each Cor-
dial different roots and herbs are required, and there must be a
minute knowledge of the preparation of them, the right cpian-
tities to u.se, and the proper methods of distillation.  The e.xact
proce.s.ses were kept within the bounds of the cloisters, and only
made known to the new recruits among the monks, themselves.
This was the history of that most famous of French Liqueurs,
Chartruese, which was originally made by the Carthusian
Monks in their monastery near Grenoble. But, during the re-
cent troubles of the monks, when they were ordered out of
France, they sold their secret for an immense sum, and the
Liqueurs such as they manufactured are now being made by a
private com])any in France, although recently the monks have
denied their right to the use of the name Chartruese.    But
withal, with the advance of .science              and chemi.stry, most of the
secrets of the monks in the distillation of various Litiueurs have
become known, and these delightful beverages are now being
manufactured equally as well by regular business concerns.
Sauternes
        Much time and money is thus expended on the vintapinp
of the grapes, as every bunch has to be carefully examined, and
unless it is found perfect in every respect,               it   is   not used for the
finer qualities.
        It   has been cumi)uted that the average expense                  ol'   cultiva-
tion is from 250 to ,'500 francs per hundred (twenty-four dozen),
it cannot, therefore, be wondered at that genuine Sauternes
cannot be obtained as cheaply as some of the Red Wines of
France.
     In classifying Sauternes, it is undoubtedly a fact that the
wines of the Chateau d'Yquem, Chateau La Tour Blanche, Cha-
teau Vigneau, Chateau Rabaud, and Chateau Suduiraut take
the foremost rank, and, next to these in the order given, come
the Haut Sauternes, Sauternes, Barsac and Craves.
     All Sauternes are sweet or sweetish in character, but tlu'
excess of sweetness disappears considerably with a few years of
"bottle age."
        As "table wines," Sauternes are eminently suitable.  They
are delicate        in and stimulate the appetite. In alcoholic
                         flavor
strength they are far below Sherries, but they are, neverthele.ss,
exhilarating and sustaining.
     They are especially suitable to be served with oysters and
fish.

        In order to ])reserve their           full   aroma, Sauternes, and            es-
pecially      the   finer   ciualities,  be "iced;" a medium
                                           should    not
temperature will be sufficient to preserve all their character-
istics.
        As "dessert wines" they are simply perfect.                   A glass or two
of high-class "vintage" Sauterne at the end of a meal will not
only aid digestion, but will              warm the whole .system and diffuse
a feeling of lightness and of comfort.
     From a medicinal standpoint, the white wines of France
rank foremost.     For dyspepsia they are invaluable. White
wines contain less tannin, tartrates and iron than I'ed wines,
but more acetic ether. Whilst containing the .same quantity of
alcohol as the red wines, their action is more "heady" and more
exhilarating.
        For obesity, especially, and affections of the liver, they are
most emphatically efficacious.
        The sweeter Sauternes, Chateau La Tour Blanche, Yquem,
Rabaud, Vigneau, etc., possessing a greater alcoholic strength,
will be found most beneficial in cases of exhaustion, nervous
prostration, hemorrhage, and in all cases of mental or bodily
fatigue.
        As des.sert wines they are             not only    delicious,      but       they
greatly aid the digestion and impart a cheerful glow                            to    the
system.
                                         :




    For further medical evidence regarding Sautenies, I quote
Dr. Mauriac, of Bordeaux. He say.s in one of his works:
     "The great Sauternes white wines, which are of a rela-
tively high alcoholic strength, are both tonic  and stimulating;
consumed moderately, they are invaluable to convalescents after
a severe illness, or when it is necessary to revive an organism
extenuated by high fever, hemorrhage, or long fatigue. They
are perfect as dessert wines, and one or two glasses at the end
of a meal facilitate digestion and i)rovoke gaiety."

    In short, as a French i)oet has it

        "Un rayon de soleil concentre dans un verre."
    Or, "A concentrated ray of sunshine in a wine glass."
Qlarets
     Among the most known brands, let us not forget Chateau
Margaux, Chateau Lafite, Chateau Latour, Mouton, and many
others which have attained a world-wide reputation; and last,
but not least, the Chateau Yquem, king of all white wines.
     Notwithstanding the fact that the wine producers and
prominent chemists in California have done their utmost to
imitate as nearly as possible the French clarets, it has been of
no avail. Therefore, the French clarets will always stand at
the zenith of fame, glory and reputation, from whence no com-
petition will ever dethrone them.
Sherry
                                                                       :




house the juice (Mosto) is pumped into large casks, which are
carried on bullock carts, generally at night, to the Bodegas
(large stone overground cellars) at Jerez de la Frontera, Port
St. Mary, or Sanlucar.  Here the Mosto goes through the pro-
cess of fermentation,           where the saccharine matter  is changed

to alcohol and carbonic acid gas, the latter       going free, while the
alcoholic strength increases in the Mosto, until it reaches the

point where       it  further fermentation, leaving some sac-
                        kills
charine unfermented, or where all the saccharine has been
transformed. The wine is then drawn off, and is aged like other
wines, but, unlike other wines, which are kept in dark under-
ground cellars, the Spanish Bodegas are large stone buildings,
with many windows and openings, giving plenty of light anti
sun.shine and a free circulation of air.
        Sherry   is    now used in medicinal compounds, in combina-
tion,   more than any other wine         but why lessen its strength-
                                         ;



giving powers by combination? The fact that from the time
the grapes are ripened on the high sunny hills until the wine is
bottled, Sherry is always surrounded by pure air and sunshine,
should be considered by the medical iirofession, and the
strengthening powers of old Amontillado should be more widely
known and appreciated. The longevity of the inhabitants of
Andalucia is well known. There is an old tale of an Archbishop
of Seville who lived to be one hundred and twenty-five years old,
and always drank half a bottle of Amontillado at dinner; but
on the days he was not feeling just I'ight, he braced up with two
bottles.
    There are a number of varieties of white grajies used in
making Sherry, and con.sequently a number of ditt'erent styles
of Sherry but Sherry is classified under two grand divisions
            ;



Plnos and Jerezanos.
      Finos are the pale, Jerezanos the darker wines. Finos are
sub-divided into Vino de Pasto, Palo Cortado, Palma and Anion
tillado.  Jerezanos are sub-divided into I. Raya, II. Raya. III.
Raya. I. Raya's are aged and become Oloroso iir Amoroso. II.
Raya's and III. Raya's are either mixed with the cheap wines of
the plains or distilled.
     This classification is made by the Almacenista (the mer-
chant who buys from the grower and ages Sherry, keeping the
vintages separate as Anadas), or by his Cai)ataz (head cellar
man), and it must be made correctly, or the consequent loss
may be enormous. The difficulty can be somewhat imagined
when one understands that two Bodega Butts, lying side be-
side, containing wines from the same vintage, will develop dif-
ferently; one will be Fino, the other Jerezano. This phenomenon
cannot be explained, but it is a fact.
      Althuugh the vineyard i)roprieturs, almost wilhout excep-
tion,  were, and still are, Spaniards, the shipping of the wines
was entirely in the hands of Englishmen who had settled in
Spain, and for that reason, shipping values are expressed in
pounds sterling; but conditions are changing, and the vineyard
proprietors are gradually becoming shippers of their own wines.
      Taking the Sherry shippers and their Capitaces as a class,
ten  per  cent, are moderate drinkers or abstainers; ninety per
cent, are good, generous drinkers; the death rate shows ten per
cent, die under .seventy, ninety per cent, live to be seventy or
over, and of the latter, fifteen per cent, reach the ripe old age
(if ninety years.   From this one can understand why Sherry is
named     in   Anchilucia "la leche de los viejos"   — the milk for the
aged.
        That Shei'ry is becoming more popular as a beverage here
in the United States can be seen by the increase in the number of
gallons imported each year, as shown l)y I'nited States customs
statistics.  This is due, in a great measure, to the fact that
Amontillado bottled in Si)ain has been introduced to the Ameri-
can consumer at the clubs, at the hotel bars, and at the cafes
in its native purity.  A glass of Amontillado, with or without
bitters, is beginning to appeal to the American taste as an ap-
petizer.   At dinner Amontillado is served with the soup, the
glasses are refilled during the (ish cour.se, and frequently are
only removed when the roast appears. In the kitchen, the chef,
when prei)aring shellfish or terrapin, would be at a lo.ss without
Sherry.   In fact, for the educated taste, there is no wine like
Sherry, and, of all wines, SheiTv is most useful for all purpo.ses.
Port Wine
Italian
     Wines
       After "having washed our     lips   with this illustrious wine,"
we may sample Nebbiolo, which is preferred by many on account
of its fruity flavor and flower-like boutiuet.It is also prepared
in a  sparkling condition, and a very pleasant beverage is this
red sparkling wine, especially with nuts.
     Nebbiolo, "which from the wine press comes sparkling and
rushes in bottle and cellar to hide its young blushes," cannot,
however, monopolize entirely our attention, for other In'ands
are claiming their share of it, such as: Barbaresco, which is a
red wine, round and soft, resembling Burgundy; the popular
Barbera, much liked for its deei), ruby color, and its vigorous,
strengthening qualities; and the aristocratic strawberry-colored
(irignolino, an idea! table wine, the latter the favorite of the
late Archbishop F^'ranzoni of Turin.
     Sparkling Moscato of Asti or C'anelli, produced in what is
probalily   the    best-known viticultural   district   of   I'iedmont,   is

considered one of the best and most typical of Italian sparkling
wines. It has been called "a lad\'s wine" because "it is sweet."
Remarkable for its bouiiuet, which stands somewhat between that
of the musk and the scent of the rose, it has a slight alcoholic
strength, so that it can be used safel\' even by the gentle sex,
and is an exhilarating beverage.
     Lombardy produces less wine than Piedmont, the culture of
the grape being confined mainly to the sub-Alpine or Alpine
district, while the plains are chiefly devoted to the dairy and
silk industries.    What little wine is grown in Lombardy is, how-
ever, of good (luality; the l)est being the wmes of Valtellina, the
Rhaetia of the Latins, a province as celebrated to-day for its
vintages as it was in ancient times. They are characterized by a
beautiful strawberrv' color, lightness, delicacy of bouquet, clean-
liness, and nuttiness of flaxor, being am(jng Italian wines those
which approach the most, the grand vintage of the Medoc.
     On the western border of the Venetian province, not far
from that romantic city of Verona, is grown another of the best
wines of Italy, viz.    :The Valpolicella, a table wine, ruby in
color, of moderate strength, clean and palatable, developing with
age a delicate, violet-like bouiiuet. Somewhat resembling Bur-
gundy, it has, however, a certain tendency to sparkle, a quality
this, that has been lately utilized in prejjaring of this tyi)e a
sparkling variety, which finds considerable favor among con-
sumers in this country.
     The allurements of Stecchetti's poetry are not necessary to
initiate the traveller into the delightful "soles of Venice and wine
of Conegliano," another of the celebrated Venetian vintages,
and probably, the most popular sparkling wine of Italy, for the
latter speaks for itself, once you have gotten well acciuainted
with it.
        As we proceed further through the Po Valley, skirting the
hills   located at the Toot of the Appenines,   where our attention
is                          manner in which the grapevine is
     attracted by the artistic
trained, in garlands and festoons from tree to tree, giving the
country a picturesque and festive appearance, we are not sur-
prised to find sj'nthesized all these natural beauties, and, I should
say, the very bountif ulness of the Aemilian district in the famous
Lambrusco wine, produced near Modena, a red, sparkling wine,
of violet-like bouquet, somewhat similar to Nebbiolo, but more
tasty and not quite so fruity.
     In the infinite gamut of wines, which gladden the heart of
man, Chianti, this most popular and most representative of
Italian wines, represents a type entirely of its own, well defined
and well established.
     Elegantly, nay coquettishly, gotten up in tho.se familiar,
neatly-trimmed flasks, adorned with the national colors of Italy,
Chianti is essentially a joyous and vivacious wine, the prototype
of the red wines of Tuscany, characterized by the brightness
and vivacity of their ruby color, the vinosity of their bouquet,
the moderateness of their alcoholic strength (just sufficient to
move the brain without impairing it), by the cleanliness, smooth-
ness and gentleness of their tlavor, and, above all, by that quality
which the Tuscans define as "passante," viz., easily dige.stible.
Chianti has not the austerity nor the deep flavor of Barolo or
(iatlinara, but has many of the soft graces of the Valpolicella
or Valtellina, which alone, among the fine table wines of Italy,
can, on aristocratic tables, contend with this son of ancient
Etruria.
      Aleatico is a red. Muscadine wine, of which Henderson, the
well-known English authority, says that "the name in some
measure e.xpres.ses the rich quality of this wine, which has a
brilliant purple color and a luscious aromatic flavor, without
being cloying to the palate, as its sweetness is generally tem-
pered with an agreeable sharpness and slight astringency.           It

is, in fact, one of the be.st .specimens of the dolce piccanti wines;

and probably ap])roaches more than any other some of the most
esteemed wines of the ancients."
      P^rom Tuscany, whose good wine is, as Bedi says, "Gentle-
man," and "No headache hath he, no headache, I say, for those
who talked with him yesterday," we step into the Orvieto dis-
trict of Central Italy, famous for its white wines, and for being
the home of the historical "Est-Est-E.st Wine," which robbed
Germany of one of its abbots, the bibulous Johann Fugger.
      The celebrated wines of Naples come from the slopes of
fiery Mount Vesuvius, where it would seem almost parado.xical
that the vine should flourish and yield such excellent products
as it does, and from the hillsides of the surrounding country, in-
cluding- the islands of the bay.
        In this fascinating viridary, eternally fertile, ancient              mem-
ories flow from the festive pergolas and harbors laden with the
golden bunches of the Cajiri, or with the purple fruit that yields
the Falernian, or with the aromatic grapes, from which Lach-
ryma Christi is obtained.
     Of Lachryma Christi, which is an amber-colored wine, pos-
sessing a pronounced and agreeable bouciuet, and a delicious,
fruity flavor of its own, Henry Vizetelly, a competent English
authority, in his well-known book,    "The Wines of the World,"
states:  "At the head of South Italian wines, one unquestionably
has to place the far-famed Lachryma C^nnsti, the product of the
loose volcanic soil of Mount Vesuvius, and an exceedingly luscious
wine, of refreshing flavor."
     A superior semi-dry, or dry, sparkling variety of Lachryma
Christi, has lately been produced, which combines the intrinsic
merits of this wine with the exhilarating qualties of a sparkling
wine, and also a red variety           is   known, nljtained from the Lach-
ryma grape.
        No brand, ancient or mndern,              has enjoyed such enduring
or extensive celebrity as Falernian. The Faleruian of antiquity
came from Mount Massico, and its modern uamesake is pro-
duced     in the hilly volcanic districtextending l'r(im Pozzuoli to
Cunia.     It prepared from grapes tlial are allowed to remain
                is

on the vines until late in the fall ami gathered when overrijie, tiie
juice being consecpiently very rich.
    Of Falernian, to-da\', two \arieties are jn'oduced One red,        :




endowed with great bouijuet, generous strength, full Ijody, deli-
cate,    velvety     flavor;   another,     golden    white,      generous,   richly
flavored, with an aromatic boucjuet of               its   own.
     White Capri is a refreshing, delicate, fi-agrant, sub-acid-
ulous wine, of a pale, primrose color, I'esembling in its charac-
teristics the Chablis of Burgundy.    Red Capri is a generous
fragrant, ruliy-colored wine, with greater body than the white,
velvety to the taste, and to l)e taken with I'oast meat.
        The South      of   Italy,   with   its   generous vintages, supplies
legion of well-known brands, such as the sweet Muscat of Trani,
the Malmsey of Lipari, the aromatic and strongly-.scented dessert
wines of Calabria (Zagarese and Gerace), and the robust, heavy-
bodied, red wines of Bari, Barletta, Lecce and Galli])oli.
     Through the delicious perfume of orange blossoms comes to
us the fame of the celebrated wines of Sicily, where the feast
of the son of Jupiter and Semele is a contimious one, finding its
flow in the Muscat of Syracuse, suggestive of the honey of Mount
Ibla, in its    nectareous confrere of Segesta, in the ratlier strong,
but highly fragrant, Albanello and Naccarella, in the Nelsonian
vintaj^es of the Duchy of Ilronte, supplied lo the English court,
in the generous vintages of the Aetna, and last, but not least,
in the well-known Mai'sala wine.
     Of all Italian wines, Marsala is, perhaps, the best known
among the English-speaking race. It is, undoubtedly, the best
of the many dessert wines for which Italy enjoys a world-wide
reputation.
      Marsala    a wine that resembles Sheriy. hut, as a rule,
                is

richer in body, as in its |)n|)aiati()ii a certain amount of must
from red grapes is used. It has a iiighly develoi)ed bou(iuet,
and is entirely free of acidity to the taste, which is mellow and
oily. Like Sherry and Port, Marsala is a fortified wine, although
there are some ciualitie.s. such as the Virgin, which do not re-
ceive any addition of brandy at all.
      Malm.sey, or Malvasia, is a white, .sweet, dessert wine, rather
alcoholic, with lu.scious flavor,   resembling Madeira.
      Of the Syracusan Muscat, as well as of that of Segesta, we
may say with ('ari)ene that "it has a brilliant golden color, a
most gracious and not excessi\e fragrance, an e.xiiuisite, honey-
like flavor, that tills the mouth with a harmonious ensemble of
delicious sensations, which the palate can jjerceive, but no pen
adequately de.scribe."
      Our re\iew of Sicili;in wines wouhl not be complete without
nn'ntioning two or thi\'e otlii'r well-known brands, viz:  Coi'vo,
a white t;ible wine, resembling Sauterne. and possessing a beau-
tiful amber color, boutpiet and aroma t\pically Southern, a clean,
generous, silky taste, warming to the system.        Generous in
flavor, without being heady, it combines body with finesse, (jual-
ity with reasonable ]irice.
     Castel Calatubbo, from the vineyards of Prince Pape di
\'aldina, is also a wine of the Sauterne type, although somewhat
dryer and a trifle more generf)us.
     "Vin de Zucco," grown at N'illa Crazia. a property of the
Orleans family, in the province of Palermo, is another famous
Sicilian growth.     This wine, obtained with the greatest care,
stands between a Sauterne and a Sherry wine, and is ideal either
as a dessert or as a "\'in de lu.xe."
Italian
    Vermouth
        Vermouth wine is a liquor of a rather deep golden color, of
absolute clearness,   with a pronounced boutiuet of aromatic
herbs and spices, skillfully combined so as to obtain an homo-
geneous ensemble, with a sweet flavor, endinjj in an agreeable
aromatic and tonic-slight bitterness. ILsed moderately, it has a
beneficial influence on the organism, in stimulating the appetite
and toning the action of weak stomachs.
     The first maker of Vermouth in Tui-iii was a pastry cook
and liquor retailer, having his store under the Portici di Piazza
Castello, who sold his customers the Muscatel wine of Piedmont,
in which he had infused some of tiie herbs that are identified
with the preparation of this liquor.
     From the outset it met with the favor of the consumers,
and the demand soon grew to such size to require the prepara
tion on a lai'ge scale, thus bringing into existence several estab-
lishments, that quickly attained commercial importance.
     These supply both to a consideral)le home demand and to
an ever-increasing export trade, showing that foreign countries
alone require somewhat in the neighborhood of ] 73,672,000 bot-
tles, besides .540,600 gallons, of this vinous liquor, of which the

United States receives per year about 43,056,000 bottles and
about 65,000 gallons.
     There are to-day, in Turin and neighborhood, about a dozen
first-class establishments engaged in this industry, some of them
with plants that are small towns in themselves, where many
thousands of workmen find remunerative employment.
      The demand for this Italian .specialty in the United States
has increased wonderfully within the last twenty years, viz.,
from about 50,000 ca.ses in the early nineties, to a present yearly
average of over 150,000 cases.
      Vermouth wine is drunk in Italy and in most foreign coun-
tries straight, as an appetizer, in the same way as in this coun-
try the cocktail is taken before dinner.
      In the United States it is generally used in the preparation
of mixed drinks, although foreign consumers drink it plain.
      Vermouth is the genius of the cocktail, being the ingredient
that, either in the Martini or the Manhattan, imparts to it the
characteristic feature of the drink.
     There is no doubt that the future has in store for this ar-
ticle   as great prospects as the past has recorded successes, and
that, as    consumers in this country become more familiar with
the use of Vermouth as a beverage to be drunk plain, which en-
ables them to better appreciate quality, further development of
its importation will be realized, especially in those brands which
can challenge in the matter of excellence.
Qn German
      Wines
    The quality, as well as quantity, of wine differs to a great
extent, due to meteorological ellects and to herbivorous vermin
which tend to destroy the fruit of man's labor.
     The last century gave us some very fine vintages, amongst
which the years 1811, 1834, 1865 and 189:^ were excellent in
quality and quantity.    The last five or six years have yielded
hardly any crop at all, and were almo.st a total failure.
      Rich old wines were nur.sed with great skill in the (lerman
cities by the employees of the city council and were dispensed
in the council cellar in olden times.  Yea, wine had the (luality
of being used as currency, and fines on miscreants were impo.sed
in such a way that the culprit had to pay one or more ohms of
wine of a certain vintage.
     To-day almost every German city has a Rathskeller (coun-
cil cellar) situated in the basement of the city hall, and there

the wine, in goblets of crystal, causes often the partakers of a
feast to sing with Mathias Claudius:

   "Drink       Rhine
            to the      And every coming morrow
                         I




           Be mirth and music thine!
    And when we meet a child of care and sorrow.
           We'll send him to the Rhine."
  jyjixed Drinks and                                   A. E.       UL'PPERMANN
                                                           of J.   11 '.   l\'uppcinian
              Their Ingredients                               New York Cili/




                    In     considering   the    subject of mixed                 drinks,
              it   may not be out of place to dwell                    briefly       upon
              their      history, as   well    as   upon     the           reasons    for
              their           and their continued popularity.
                         existence
              Since time immemorial, men have sought to lend
              an added relish to food through seasoning, that
is,   through the addition of flavorings of a          si)icy,             aromatic, or
piquant, nature.      It   was natural, therefore, that the same meth-
ods should have been applied in the matter of beverages, as is
witnessed by the highlx'-llavored jninches and other brews of
our forefathers.
     A distinction siiould be drawn, howex'er, between those
mixed drinks whicii are devised purely as thirst (luenciiers and
which should be classified under the heading of beverages, and
those which are commonly known as appetizers.            Among the
former are included such drinks as shandy-gaff and the various
toddies, rickeys, punches, cobblers, juleps, etc. To some of these
beverages it has been sought to communicate a food value, aside
from that of the stimulant, as in the case of sherry-flip, egg-nogg,
milk-punch, etc., foods having been introduced because of their
value as such, rather than because of any flavor which tiiey
might impart.
     But there is another class of mixed drinks not less impor-
tant nor less ijojnilar than the thirst-quenchers or beverages
just named.    This class is popularly known under the name of
appetizers, in which are comprised all of the cocktails and other
mixed drinks that are designed particularly to increase the de-
sire for food, that is, to promote the appetite and stimulate the
activity of the digestive organs.
       In medicine, the therapeutic value of simple or aromatic
bitters has long been recognized.    The introduction of a bitter
element, highly aromatic in its nature, was due to this widely
accepted principle among medical men as well as the laity as
to the value of aromatic bitters administered in its                       most delight-
ful form, viz., the cocktail.
       The bitters act upon the saliva glands as well as upon the
 secretions of the stomach, stimulating both to a greater degree
of activity, their effect being     augmented by the aromatics,          in-

cluding the alcohol. The French have long recognized the value
of the bitter element in their celebrated tonic wines, which gen-
erally contain cinchona or other barks of a similar nature. Nux
vomica, for instance, a powerful stomachic, is inten.sely bitter.
     It is true that an appetizer or cocktail may al.so be taken
as bracer or to counteract mental depression or temporary
melancholia, the aromatics, which are its most striking constit-
uents, producing in such cases a similar ef!ect to that of .spirits
of ammonia.    So true is this assertion that many connois.seurs,
in order  to obtain a maximum bracing effect, prefer to use a
highly aromatic bitters, such as Ango.stura, without the admix-
ture of any liquor.       In the.se ca.ses a    pony glass   is   the proper
quantity.
     It is   evident, llifn, that the   u.se   of bitters gave rise to the
introduction of the appetizer, or cocktail, for, without the bitter
ingredient, these drinks would not serve their purpose as appe-
tizers.  It is also apparent that in order to produce the desired

effect the bitters should be of a highly    aromatic character, al-
though     bitters flavored only with orange peel, which are com-
paratively  only slightly aromatic,  are also extensively  used, but
mainly in    conjunction   with  such  highly  aromatic   bitters  as
those of Dr. Siegert,   invented  at the town  of Angostura    in the
early part of the la.st century.     Various opinions are held as
to the composition of the original cocktail, although it is gen-
erally conceded that gin and Angostura preceded sherry and
Angostura as an appetizer, the former reaching its greatest
popularity in America, and the latter in England. The so-called
old-fa.shioned cocktail, consisting of a loaf of sugar steeped in
a teaspoonful of bitters added to rye whisky, was undoubtedly
antedated, at least in this country, by the old-fashioned appe-
tizer, gin and bitters.
     As it is a well-known principle that the addition of sugar
to alcoholic drinks, or    even to those which are only slightly al-
coholic, adds materially to their exhilarating effect, so in the
cocktail, if it is desired to heighten the subtlety of the mixture,
the bitter taste should always be modified by the addition of
sweetening. In the same way the communication of a slightly
acid characteristic, as by a couple of dashes of lemon juice, will
improve certain, although by no means all, appetizers. It is by
the nice balancing of these various elements that the true artist
may be recognized.
    There is a demand for appetizers that are only                   slightly
aromatic and exclusively bitter, such as the dry Martini, but the
effect in these cases is almost entirely one-sided, the bitter char-
actei'istic     being accentuated to    tlie   exclusion   somewhat   largely
of the aromatic, and completely of the slightly acid and sweet
constituents.       The Martini cocktail evidently was the result of
an abortive attempt to render the flavor of gin palatable to those
to whom it is naturally repugnant, the delicate flavor of the
French Vermouth being inadequate to perform the task imposed
upon it. An attempt to remedy this defect was made by intro-
ducing an equal proportion of Italian Vermouth, thus giving
rise to the Bronx cocktail; but, generally speaking, French and
Italian Vei'mouths constitute an inadvisable mixture, unless a
highly aromatic bitters is used as a genial arbitrator in the con-
test between the two opposing ingredients.    The combination of
Italian Vermouth with gin is always a happy one, the flavor
of the former easily taking first place in the mixture, but a lib-
eral use of Angostura, as in the popular Barry cocktail, is in-
evitable.  The addition of five drops of creme de menthe and a
piece of twisted lemon peel makes this drink as delicious as any
that can be offered to the most exacting epicure.
     In those mixed drinks which have been classified as simply
beverages or thirst-quenchers, the bitter and aromatic principles
should not be overlooked, for nothing will lend such a delicious
flavor as a highly aromatic ingredient to champagne, claret and
rhinewine cups or ininches. On the other hand, this constituent
should be sparingly used with the sweet wines of Spain, such
as port, sweet maderia, Lagrima Christa, and others.       Angos-
tura, however, may be freely used with claret, to which it lends
a substantial body, such as is found in old burgundy.       In hot
drinks, such as hot spiced rum and hot punches, the aromatlcs
should be not too lilierally used, as these volatile constituents
are rapidly vaporized by the heat, and the flavor is thereby
temporarily intensified. It is particularly imperative, therefore,
that hot drinks should not be allowed to grow cold or to be re-
heated.
         It is almost   superflous to say that all mixed drinlvs, whether
hot or cold, should be served as soon as possible after mixing,
for   it necessary that the constituents should not be allowed
           is

to blend. The flavor of each ingredient should stand out promi-
nently and play with as much vigor as possible the part assigned
to it.     This cannot be the case if the mixture is allowed to stand
so as to become stale, even if bottled.
                       "
Jljaking ''Hand-made
      Sour Mash
     Never in my life did I think, that a prosaic salesman, with
whom   "orders" were first consideration, and "blowings-up"
from house the last consideration, could be moved, much less
carried away by romantic scenery.      I admit that there must
have been something I did not understand, that made me pause,
reflect, think.
     Below, the babbling brook, trickling with its crystal clear
water from rock-ledge to rock-ledge, vv'inding in and out of
green trees and underbrush above, high hills (mountains) cov-
ered with pine trees, over which hung white silvery clouds, like
a veil protecting the pines against the rising sun's rays, beating
down upon the mountain slope. And as the sun's rays became
more direct and warmer, the misty cloud-like veil disappeared,
leaving instead an equally beautiful panorama in the many-shaded
green of the mountain side. My pen fails me, and I can not
make a word-picture that will give the awe-inspiring feeling that
creeps into your soul when you meet Nature in all its natural
beauty. Did you ever catch a shiver or feeling mixed of awe and
delight run through your veins when,"Der Liebe Hergott (ieht
Pureh Den Wald Leise Nach Seiner VVeise" is sung. That comes
near it in my limited ajipreciation of music.
    The .iourney ends at tlie forks or where three creeks meet,
and at which point you first see the rustic bridge, which is no
more or less than a large tree felled across the creek, branches
trimmed off, and furnishes the distiller and his men a crossing
from house to distillery.
    The distillery is in perfect keeping with its surroundings.
Built at the beginning of the nineteenth century,      it    looks as   if

it   stands today with   little   or no repairs being "wasted" on       it

since; the shingles are covered with moss, and        it    certainly   is

the "mill in the forest."
      The water is led through pipes from a large sj^ring on the
mountain   side, some 2,500 feet     —
                                   taking it from there because
of the never-failing supply of the spring,      and because it     is   as
clear as crystal and never more than 56 Fahrenheit temperature,
notwith.standing the fact that  it contains alkali or is "hard," it

isused for mash, boiler and general use around the distillery.
     The corn is grown arountl the immetiiate neighborhood, but
often when crops f;iil, these distillers must get corn from other
States.
    The rye comes from the Northwest, principally Wisconsin,
and barley malt from Minnesota, ])riiu-ipaily malted in Milwau-
kee or Chicago.
     The grain is ground by the old-fashioned method, two burr
stones, often re-cut, and so arranged that one stone revolves
over the other, crushing and grinding the grain between them.
    The corn-meal is put. one bushel into an open barrel-tub and
thoroughly scalded with hot water, but most frequently hot
slop.
        The stirring is done by a darkey with a hand-rake, and then
the barrel is set aside, allowed to rest for 24 hours.     After this
time,     has the consistency of mush. It is not watery, nor is
          it

it hard, but simply mush.

     The darkey again comes with his hand-rake, and breaks
up this mush and throws it into the large fermenters. It is
thinned down liy adding hot water, but more frequently strained
slop, so that the final contents of the fermenters is about one
barrel of water to one bushel of grain.        The required propor-
tion of small grain (rye and barley malt) is added during the
process of breaking up the "mush" and the fei-mentation is
started by skimming off sufficient quantity fi-om the top of the
fermenters during the 72 houi's that they are jjcrmitted to fer-
ment or work.
     After 72 hours (or iXJ hours after first mashing) the fer-
menters become quiet. The starch in the corn has been turned
into Beer. It is sour, like beer, and ta.stes not unlike beer. This
is then pumped into a wooden three-chamber still, and the beer

is distilled into whiskey.      This pi'ocess separates the alcohol
(whiskey) from the mash, leaving spent slop behind.
     The whi.skey finds its way to a second distillation in a "cop-
per doubler" heated over a wood fire. And the di.stillation is so
controlled that it boils over and runs into a cistern room at the
bonded warehouse into a tub, or copper tank at 100 or 101 proof,
so that the distiller can (ill it into barrels at this proof without
reducing with distilled water.       A good test of quality being
that this whiskey as it runs into the cistern room is sweet,
pleasant to taste and smell, and if a distiller takes a pride in
his product, he will call it some endearing name
                                                         —
                                                        "sugar-loaf,"
etc.
        To go back, the spent   slop   is   separated by settling into a
tub or by straining process, so that the thick is fed to cattle and
the thin is used for mashing and tilling in the fermenters.
     All methods of handling are primitive.       Grain is liauled
miles up the creek road we have just admired.
     Whiskey, when unbonded, goes back the same way. Coal,
which is now used in part of manufacture, comes in same way,
but none of these "old-fashioned, hand-made" distillers would
think of using coal under the copper doubler.   The evenness
of heat, perhaps the aroma of burnt char of wood, adds to the
flavor.        Some of these thoughts may       be far-fetched, but the
facts are nevertheless true.
                                                                 ;




     The bonded warehouses are the same as at any other dis-
tillery. The old stone warehouses are rapidly giving way to
modern rack warehouses.
     Today no connoisseur will believe any whiskey is properly
matured unless maturity is evidenced by an increase in proof
over and above the proof at which the whiskey was originally
entered into bond. And most distillers of sour-mash whiskies
heat their warehouses in extreme cold weather. To hold tem-
perature of warehouses too high, is also disadvantageous, as it
deprives whiskey of its natural development, impregnates them
with too much tannin or tannic acid and deprives them of part
of their bouquet.
      Sour mash whiskies are full of essential oils. Ninety-six
iiours of fermentation, primitive methods, all add to make the
sour mash whiskies heavier than other whiskies. They take in
consequence longer to mature, and are hardly fit for drink until
about four years old. From that time on they become mellower
in taste and finer in flavor.  Some of the re-imported, exported,
sour mash whiskies are as fine as any Old Cognac Brandy, in-
finitely more wholesome, and pure beyt)nd doubt, and doctors
prefer to prescribe them for medicine.
      The greater part of the morning was taken in my investiga-
tion of the distillery and warehouse; a long and loud blow on
the horn indicated dinner, and we soon found ourselves, after
a wash, at the hospitable table of the distiller.
      Oh, these Kentuckians are a lovely people. They are gross-
ly slandered when people believe they do nothing but shoot and

kill.  There are rufiians any place you go, the world over, but
for genuine true friendshi]), that is all wool and a yard wide and
will never fade, I like to think of the friendship of some of my
Kentucky friends.
           —
    N. B.^ Many drops of water have gone down the stream
many drops of sand have marked the hours, the days and years,
since the above account recorded the pleasant reflections of a de-
lightful period.   Thirty years have gone by. The author's hair,
such as have been spared to him, are gray. Changes in business
conditions are marked with even more distinct ditt'erences.
     From an honest eft'ort for the temperate use of liquors, to-
day the trade is harassed by fanatical prohibition in many
places.   The lengthening of the bonded period to eight years;
the permission granted to the distiller to bottle in bond have
                                                           ;




brought about many changes in the methods of fermentation and
distillation, so that today primitive methods as described in the
above account are rarely, yes, very rarely found. Notwithstand-
ing, the eflervescence of youth, the author himself is now oper-
ating a model distillery, employing with good results the ad-
vanced methods and apparatus which science and experience
have produced.
ji'amous New
   Orleans Drinks
tlie most fashionable block of this shopping boulevard is located
the well-known confectionery establishment of Harry Schaum-
burg. Here the gentlemen of leisure will saunter in to refresh
themselves with a "Rofignac High Ball," which is exhilarating
and delicious in taste and flavor. Its inventor was once the
Mayor of New Orleans, during the Ancien regime, and tradition
lells us that Monsieur le Maire was the most popular official the
Crescent City ever had; for on afternoons the Mayor's office
was always thronged with visitors desirous of both paying their
respects to the Knightly Roflgnac and also enjoying one or two
of his delicious "Rofignacs."
       The   day's   work   is   over in   New Orleans for the average
business man by five o'clock in the evening, and if you will cross
Canal Street and enter by way of Bourbon Street the Old Latin
Quarter you will unconsciously follow the crowd.           Having
walked some three blocks, you will soon notice on the   corner  of
Conti and Bourbon, only one block from the old French Opera
House (where every winter for years dating back to ante-bellum
days the old walls have re-echoed with the music of (irand
Opera), an old rusty-looking building of Spanish architecture.
                                                —
Most of the crowd seems to stop here in fact they do, and,
entering an old Spanish Courtyard, soon reach the large room
with its low ceiling, playing fountains, and antique Spanish
furniture, with openings on an old Spanish courtyard, where
the flowers fill the air with intoxicating aromas. This is the
great rendezvous for both sexes who have come here to partake
of that refreshing      and exhilarating "Suis-sesse" for which the
Old Absinthe House has been famous for over a hundred years.
This establishment has been in the hands of one family for a
century.  The present owner and proprietor of the "Old Ab-
sinth House," Don Felix Ferrer, is the grandson of the Knightly
Spaniard of the same name who landed in the Colonies, having
come    to the shores of the        New World to e.scape the political
persecutions of the Old.
     After indulging in one or two of these delicious "Suissesses"
ditt'used by the courteous Senor Felix Ferrer, your appetite has
been sharpened like a two-edged sword, and you will find your-
self winding your way to the restaurant of "Madame Antoine"
to enjoy a "Pompano au Gratin." Whilst waiting for the waiter
to serve it you will call for a "Peychaud Cocktail," another of
the delicious drinks of that Capital of Epicures whose motto is
"Life is what we make it. Let us live whilst we can." "Vivimus
 dum Vivamus."
C. p. Moorman      & Co.
   Louisville, Ky.

      Distillers
1
C. p.    Moorman & Co.
        LouisvilU'.   Ky.
           Distillers




                                          OIvD
                            |)«
                                  *       BLENJJED                      ^11


                                        ^-^^:^




                                  -K D«0(j ACT. APPRO VEO JUNE   ^i-'
1
                                                                      '      ,




W'riifht   & Taylor
  Louisrillc. Ky.
    Distillers




  OLD CHARTER DISTILLERY
           eSTABLISHeO 1874
   (WRIGHT a TAYLOR. SOLE owners!
     5th district. KENTUCKY




                                    Whiskev
                                >Vi*s;?:i-ED IN BOND UNDER GOVE^f^.^Jclg'^

                                      '"" TO BE ABSOUUTtLY PUR£«*''
Old Grand-Dad Distillery Co.
       Louisville, Ky.

          Distillers
As Served at
                                               .




Brown-Forman Company
    Louisville. Ky.

      Distillers




                               OF Old k£nT^CKY           VVHiSr. -_
                      ^fe?     0f"0LD
                       :'^'tED UNDER
                                      KENTWJCf
                                      NATIONAL PV^^
                                      NATIONAL
                                                    f"

                      .f.j_
                              ^0225                     rr.'y




                       ^K
                                        /
                                               /



                              ^   '^-'-^CcM.                ^^-^
                                                                      i
                                                   ^./t^'^tS<
                                                           c;^*^




                          READ THE LABEL               TRY IT
As Served at
Old Kentucky Distillery
       hnnrptirati-il


    Louisiille. Ky.

      Distillers
As Served at
 Bernhcim           l^    Bcrnheim
  Distilling               f)istillinc/
      Co.                        Co.
Louisiille.   hy.        t.iiiiisritU:   hy.
   Dislillen                l)islitU-rs




 ThePhil.                 D. Sachs
Hollcnhach                 c{:   Sons
      Co.                Louisville, Ky.

Louisville,   Ky.           Distillers

   Distillers




                                               ^\mAfi
As Served at
Green River                        Ph.
  Distilling                  Hamburger
      Co.                           Co.
Owensboro. Ky.                I'iltsburgh, Pa.

   Distillers                    Distillers




                   ^msx3ss^

                                                 BRtDQEPORl
                                                   ''ONONGAHELA


                                                 lur JlKiislif!!
                                                 "•"BURGER DisraU"'




    The                        Thompson
Freiberg       &                Distilling
 Workum                             Co.
     Co.                      I'illshurgh, fa.

Cinciiinati, O.
                                 Distillers

  Distillers




                                                    RURE RY6'
 Taylor &                                            The
 \\   ilUiims                                   A wcricitn
/.iiuisiillc. I\fi.                             Distilliiii/
                                                                              i
   Distillers                                        Co.
                                                 I\kin. Ill

                                                  ni-lilli'rs




                        ki^ WHISKEY.
                          Ijiiisviiu.Im/;i;."




                                                                       MARK
Schenley                                        Bluthcnthal           ROGER
/)istilli)u/                                     & Bickart
      Co.                                       Ballitnorv.     Md.
                                                                      ««YURt
Lucesco, Pit.                                                         WIISKET
                                                   Dislilkrs
 Dislillers




                      Bottled in bond

                      SCHENLEY DISTILLING CO.
                             STl Ll-C R&
                            I->l
                       As Served at                                                As Served .\t

Ob<i 'Waldorf-Astoria                                           Auditorium Tfotel
                      NEW    YIIRK, N, Y.




                HAZEI/rON COCKTAIL                                       Aii>iTORii!M r.iN               nzz
    (Jnu-half Nicholson (iiii.                                    Regular          Gin   Fizz       with    white   of
    One- fourth French Vcrniuutli.                              eg.e.

    One-fourth Italian Vermouth.                                  Put    in    sprig of mint wlien served.
    Frappe with a few sprigs of fresh
                                                                               ISItAIN      DUSTKK
 mint.
    Serve         in cocktail glass.                              Juice of one-half Lime.
                                                                  Three dashes Peychaud liitlers.
               tiOOD TIMKS CtXKTAIL                               One-half pony .Absinthe.
    Two-thirds Tom Gin.                                           One-half pony Anisette.
    (liir-tliird French Vermouth.
                                                                  White of egg.
    Stir        .and    strain.
                                                                  Frappe.
    Ser\e        in    cocktail glass.
                                                                           ri!IN< i:SS <<»( Ki'AIL
                      WAI^UOllF ROSE                              One-lhird Fre:ich \'ermouth.
                                                                  One-third Italian Vermouth.
    ll.ilf      Dry Gin.
                                                                  One-third Ahsinthe.
    I    ln<   -fiinrth     Apple Whisk\-.
                                                                  Frappe.
    <    )ne-foin"th Grenailine.
   juice of one Lime,                                                              AllDITORIl'M            COCKTjVIL
   k'r.ippe thoroughly.
                                                                              One-half jigger Dry Gin.
                                                                              One-third ji.g.ger French
                                                 :^ evcrages                         Vermouth.

                                                                               M-appe.




                                                     Recipes for
                                                        ^ixe6                       AiuiTomi.M
                                                                              juice one-half lime
                                                                                                           <;i:




                                                       brinks                 Small toddy.
                                                                              Spoonful Grenadine Syrup.
                                                                              Three-fourths jigger .\pple
                                                                                  Brandy.
                       CLOVER CLUB                                            Frappe.
   juice of half lemon.
   White of an egg.                                                           WILD IRISH ROSE
   Half teaspoonful powdered sugar.                               Use     highball       .glass.
    )ne drink of Plymouth Gin.
    <
                                                                  One-half lime muddleil.
    I    )nr pi'Uy        Raspberry Syrup.                        Small toddy.
        I''r.ip|>e   tlioroughly .and serve in                    Spoonful Grenadine S)rup.
 el.irei       ghi'-s with a sprig of mint on                     Three-fourths jigger \r\A\ Whisky.
 lop.                                                              Lump highhall ice.
                     VVALDOKF Q^JEB^'S                             Fill nj)    with seltzer.
    Two slices pineapple well nuid-                                      rOOTE'S         SUMMER SOllR
 <lle,l.
    One-half Dry Gin.                                             juice one-half lemon.
    One-fourth French Vermouth.                                   Three-fourths jigger good r.otn-bcHi
    One-fourth Italian Vermouth.                                wliisky.
    Sm.ill piece of or.ange              well trapped.             One dessert spoonful sirgar.
                                                                  Frappe       .




                     W.VLDORF SI'KCIAI,                           Serve in regular [\/?. glass, with
    juice of one Lime.                                          Imnp highliall ice. and fill up with
    (    Ine    drink Apricotine                                still   water.      Gin, lu'anrly.         Scotch, or
        Frappe         thorouglily   and     serve     in       anv     liquor      ilc^irrd       can    be used in
 cocktail glass.                                                this        and makes
                                                                        drink,                           a delightful
                                                                summei' 1)everage.


               ^ed^eSTzf ^alv<jJL
                                                                              Manager Litpior Department.
                                            Manager.
Felton   & Son
Boston. Mass.
  Distillers
                     As Served at                                           MOON COCKT.4II,
                                                                           Distinctly       Our    Own
  Hfotel ^elve6erc                                               Few dashes of Grenadine Syrup.
                                                                 One-sixth of Italian Vermouth.
           BALTIMORE, MARYLAND
                                                                 One-sixth of French. Vermouth.
                                                                 Two-thirds Apple Brandy'.
                                                                 Stirred witli spoon or shaken.
                     FROZEN RYE                                  Cocktail glass.
  Juice of half lime.
  Few dashes orange juice.
  Few dashes pineapple syrup.
  Few dashes orange Curncoa.                                            BELVEDERE COCKT.Ul,
  Balance rye whisky.                                                     .V tiortd   Morning Bracer
  Frozen Scotch or gin same as                rye.

  Serve         in    large    champagne    glass.               (.)nc-lhird      Italian    Vermouth.
Put     slice of     orange and slice of pine-                   (")ne-thiril     Gunlf.n    Gnr
                                                                 One-third Irish Whisky.
apple in glass, allowing same to stick
out beyond top uf glass.    Fill same                            Few dashes of .Absinthe.
                 ice    and pour    drink    over                Cocktail glass.
witli    fine

same,      with       cherry on top.        Serve                Well frapped.
with straw.




                                            leverages

                                               Recipes for
                                                     5tlixe6
                                                 brinks

                     ROYAL SMILE                                           PERKECT COCKT.^IL

  Juice of half a lime.
                                                                 One-sixth Italian Vermouth.
  One-fourth Grenadine Syrup.                                     One-sixth French Vermouth.
   One-fourth Gordon Gin.                                        Two-thirds Gordon Gin.
   One-half Apple Brandy.                                        Well frapped with p'cce of orange
                                                               ]iee!.
   Cocktail glass.
                                                                  Cocktail glass.

                     CLOVER CLUB                                                  PICK .ME ur
   Juice of lime.                                                                ulinle oi'ange.
                                                                  Juice    ipf
   Few dashes of Grenadine Syrup.                                Jig.ger     of gin.
                   Vermouth.
   (Due-sixth Italian
                                                                  White of an egg.
   One-sixth French Vermouth.                                     Highball glass.
   Two-thirds gin.                                                Well frapped.
   Add white of an egg. Frappc well.
   Dress with three mint leaves on
edge of glass.
   Serve        in claret glass.

   In season use raspberries instead of
Grenadine.             Macerate    the   raspber-
ries    with muddler.

                                                                                                  Wine Steward.
  Canvtt                         Garrett
   tt Cu.                        «£-   Co.
Xorfolk.   \'a.                Norfolk.   V'a.


Miituihuttirvrs                Manufacturers




                   m
                  WKIMTN   I




     The
M. Hommel
 Wine Co.
S mduski/. ().
Manufacturers
As Served at
A. & H.
Sancho's
Anumlillado
Pun Quixote

 Samuel         ^
StreitCo.
 Impiirling
                ^
  .   Xiients

 Ai'ic   York
                                  The
                             Flcisch-
                            mann Co.
                             New York
                              Distillers




Baird- Daniels
     Co.                    tfc   Co.
   .Wew York               Peoria, III.

   Dislillers     1   °:    Dislillers
                      00




                 BK3?5^
 Geo. A.                                             The
 Dickel                                        (Juinine-
  & Cu.                                      1 1   hisky Co.
 Mashville,                                  Louisville, Ky.
   Tenn.
                                                   Distillers
 Distillers




                   EOAQlCKEL^Ca^


              IV»'[jl.STlLLEi?v         <,



                                                                miNE-AVJiis:
                                                                "W»llC»t -MIKkl AM p..




                                                                  WWM "\;ii<k\ TlV. Inui*>**




  Italo-                                           Italo-
American                                     A merican
  Stores                                           Stores
Xc'if )'ork                                        Xeif York

Imparlini)                                     Importing
  Agents                                         Agents




               §twpuf^l


               'ma^k^i
               y    SOCIIT* (MfOHIM*


                      T o i>   Nr   I
LIBRARY OF
             CONGRESS




   014 755 884 3
