      Ike Cl^t oj




                    Proented by

  ^Ji^TivaK 5= Cl>tvt>ucaK                 Co.
ji.    JI4 W«| 5ib Siieet, LOS ANGELES. CAL.
The Art of
 Mixing Them



        By A. Connoisseur




           PUBUSHED BY

      FELIX MENDELSOHN

  1521 Peoples Gas Building, Chicago
       The Art of Mixing Them.
  '•The Art of Mixing Them" is presented with
the hope that it will find a welcome hoth from tho
man at home and the one who dispenses drinks
behind the bar, and is submitted with the hope
that it will prove thoroughly acceptable. You
will find in this little volume most of the drinks
that you will ever have occasion to use; many of
them you will never have a call for, but if you
need them they are here.
  The highest perfection in mixing drinks ^ds
its attainment in the individual or single mixed
drink; yet he who is called upon to make a puncli
or a cooler for a large party need not be dis
concerted, because by a simple calculation he can
make a drink for twenty or a hundred as well as
for one.
  The first aim of an efficient bartender should
be to please his customers. He can pay a deli
cate compliment to those individuals whose tastes
he has ascertained by being careful to meet their
wishes, and for those whose whims and peculiari
ties he has had no chance of learning, can do his
best by making a polite inquiry as to how they
wish to he served, using of course his best judg
ment in his endeavor to please them. The bar
tender who does this will not fail to be popular.
  Always wash the ice and see that it is clean
before using. Never touch it with the hand and
in placing it in the glass use either an ice scoop
or tongs.
  Fruits in season are usually used for the orna
mentation of fancy drinks. Where the drink
requires straining into the glass, add the fruit
after straining; if otherwise, introduce the fruit
into the glass first. Never handle the fruit; pick
it up with a silver spoon or fork.
   THE     ART     OF   MIXING        THEM

  When preparing a hot drink he sure to first
rinse the glass rapidly with hot water. The drink
cannot be served sufficiently hot to suit the par
ticular customer if this is not done. Incidentally,
by heating the glass in this manner you prevent
it from breaking when the boiling water is sud
denly poured into it.
   Use particular discrimination in using ice for
the preparation of cold drinks. Shaved ice should
generally be used when the principal ingredient
of the drink is spirits and in the case where no
water is employed. It is best to use small lumps
of ice where eggs, milk, wine, vermouth, seltzer,
or other mineral waters are used in the prepara
tion of the drink and always be sure to remove
them from the glass before serving the customer.
   In mixing any kind of a hot drink where sugar
is used be sure to put sufficient boiling water
into the glass before adding the spirits, because
sugar does not readily dissolve in spirits.
  In preparing cold mixed drinks it is best to dis
solve the sugar in a little cold water before add
ing the spirits. This will not be found necessary
if a quantity of shaved ice is used. The use of
syrup has almost entirely superseded white sugar
in the preparation of cocktails. In the prepara
tion of drinks requiring eggs, or milk, or both,
or where hot wine or spirits are to be mixed with
them, be sure to always pour the latter upon the
former gradually and while doing so stir the mix
ture in a brisk manner, as otherwise the eggs
and milk will curdle.
  To correctly prepare and cool a punch bowl, it is
best to use a metal dish sufficiently large to hold
the bowl containing the punch and inside of this
place the bowl and fill the space between bowl
and dish with finely shaved ice and sprinkle on
   THE      ART     OF    MIXING        THEM

this ice a little rock salt to prevent it from melt
ing quickly. Let the ice reach over the rim of
the bowl and spread over a few leaves or ornament
it otherwise. In this way you can produce a fine
effect and always have your punch cool.
   Where whiskey, brandy or other liquors are to
he drawn direct from the wood place the cask
upon a skid and keep it in a place where the tem
perature is moderate and uniform. All bottles
that contain liquor should be kept lying down.
This will keep the corks moist and there will be
no loss of strength by evaporation.
  It requires more than ordinary treatment to
serve champagne. It is well not to place more
on ice at a time than you are likely to use because
after once having been removed from the ice and
allowed to become warmer the second icing will
likely impair both the strength and the flavor.
After champagne has been well iced particular
care is required in the handling of the bottle. The
glass is rendered brittle by the cold and is not so
well able to withstand the expansion of the con
tents. In serving champagne after having been
informed what brand is desired, take the bottle
from the ice, untwist the wire and carefully draw
the cork. Have a napkin wrapped around the
neek of the bottle and as soon as the cork is out
pour a little into the glass of the host first. Then
serve from the right. Care should be taken that
the wine flows out smoothly and if gently poured
on the side of the glass the ebullition of the wine
will be checked sufliciently so that the goblet can
be filled without overflowing. The napkin around
the bottle is to keep the wine from the heat of
the hands and to protect the tablecloth.
  Where mineral waters are contained in siphons.
   THE      ART     OF   MIXING         THEM

they should he cooled gradually, and should not be
permitted to stand in contact with the ice. The
thickness of the glass out of which siphons are
constructed affords the necessary resistance to the
expansion of the gas they contain and yet they
are more liable to crack on account of unequal
contraction if only one portion of the siphon has
been touching the ice.
  A moderate degree of coolness will sufRce for
cordials, syrups and bitters and they need not be
laid on ice, as only small quantities of these are
used for mixing and flavoring.
  Claret, rhine wine, sherry, port, etc., should be
handled with an extra amount of care.    Be particu
lar to avoid shaking when serving them and espe
cially while drawing the cork so as to prevent the
sediment which might be in the bottle from being
disturbed. Bottles containing these types of wine
should when laid away be placed on the side in
order to keep the corks moist, and should be kept
in a place where the temperature is nearly even
all the year around.
  Old Cognac loses its smoothness or velvet when
it is chilled while brandy or other liquors require
only a moderate temperature.      Whiskey is usually
kept on ice.

HOW TO KEEP AND HOW TO SERVE BEERS
                    AND ALES.

  Beer and     ale drawn from    the wood should   be
served at a temperature of about 45° F. during the
colder seasons of the year, and about 40° during
hot w*eather.  An exception to this is stock ale,
which should be consumed at a temperature of 48
to 50° P. The package containing them should be
kept in an ice-box or refrigerated room suitable
for this purpose, and the cask allowed to stand
quietly for at least 24 hours before tapping it.
  If present use, cream or stock ales, or porter,
which usually are slightly cloudy, are handled, the
casks should be allowed to stand long enough until
the sediment has deposited thoroughly. They are
then tapped, so that the ale or porter, when drawn
into the glass, is clear, or practically so, in ap
pearance.
    THE     ART     OF    MIXING        THEM

  Care of the Tapping Devices, Hoses and Colls.
  Beer and ale are very susceptible to foreign
odors and tastes. This must always be borne in
mind. An unclean condition of the tapping devices,
hoses or coils may not only affect the fine taste
and flavor of the beer or ale, but also impair the
brilliancy, so that floating particles will be notice
able therein. For these reasons it is absolutely
necessary to keep them in the properly clean con
 dition at all times. The tapping device and rods
should be cleaned each time after removing them
from the empty package by thoroughly brushing
with suitable brushes, one of which should be a
long handled wire bristle brush, using a hot soda
solution when so doing. They must then be flushed
thoroughly with clean water, and after this, should
be suspended on a clean hook or rack, so that they
drain and dry.
   Coils and hoses should be filled once a week with
a hot solution made by dissolving % pound of soda
lye (caustic soda) in five gallons of boiling water.
This solution is allowed to remain therein over
night. On the following morning the coils and
hoses are flushed thoroughly with hot and then
cold water. If too strong a soda solution is used,
and If it is allowed to remain in the pipes
too long, the first beer passing through the newly
cleaned pipes, or if beer is allowed to stand therein
for an hour or longer, may be slightly hazy, due
to the effect of metal. The occurrence of such a
haziness, however, is of comparatively short dura
tion, and the beer will then flow clear.
            Drawing off Beer and Ale.
  The refreshing taste and sparkling appearance
of beer and ale are due to the carbonic acid gas
which these products contain.   If the latter is al
lowed to escape, they become flat, stale and un-
palatable. In order to retain the carbonic acid gas
in the beer or ale when they are drawn -from the
package, either air or carbonic acid gas pressure
generally is employed. When using air, the air is
compressed by means of a hand pump or a pump
driven by either water or electric power. Car
bonic acid gas pressure is obtained from the liquid
carbonic acid gas contained in steel drums.
 If air pressure is employed, the precaution must
be observed that only pure, clean air is compressed.
There have been numerous Instances where foul
   THE ART OF                MIXING THEM

smelling or contaminated air was drawn, and un
der the circumstances it usuaily caused the heer,
especiaiiy the iast portions drawn from the barrel,
to possess an unclean taste and odor, when using
air pressure, there is always the disadvantage that
the last portions of beer drawn from the package
will be more or less flat.
  Carbonic acid gas pressure is to be preferred for
drawing beer, for the reason that when employing
it, an escape of carbonic acid gas from the beer
is impossible. The carbonic acid gas must, of
course, be of proper purity, 1. e., odorless, and if
such is used, the taste and flavor of the beer ^n-
not be detrimentally affected, and the last beer
from the package will be as snappy and of as good
life as the first.

 bottled beer, bottled ales, porter,
            STOUT, AND WEISSBEER.
  Bottled beer and ale when received by the cus
tomer should be stored in the original cases at a
uniform temperature of 50 to 60° P.
  The best temperature for consuming lager beers,
sparkling and mild ales is 40 to 45° h., which can
easily be obtained by placing the bottles in an ice
box for several hours before they are to be used.
Inasmuch as there is a demand for ice-cold bottled
lager beer, especiaiiy during warm weather, the
precaution must be observed to ice only a sufficient
number of bottles for one day's supply. If any
remain over and are kept in ice over night, such
beer should be consumed first.
  Bottled stock ales, porter and stout should be
served at a temperature of 48 to 50° P., never
lower than 45°., in order that the proper flavor may
be enjoyed. If such goods are more or less cloudy,
the bottles must be allowed to stand upright for
two to three days, so that the sediment deposits
on the bottom of the bottles. Only the clear bev
 erage above the sediment should be carefully
 poured off into the glass. The precaution also
 must be observed to keep a sufficient supply on
 hand, so that cloudy ale or stout is never served
 to the customer.
   Weissbeer should be consumed cold, preferably
 at a temperature not higher than 40° P. The bot
 tles must be allowed to stand upright until the
 sediment has deposited, and only the clearer part
 of the contents of the bottle decanted off.
    THE     ART      OF   MIXING       THEM

    WHEN AND HOW TO SERVE DRINKS.
          Serve Apollinaris at all times.
    Other drinks serve with courses as follows.

                HORS D'OEUVRE
                     Cocktail

                     OYSTERS
     White Chabdis                  Stock Ale
                      SOUP
             Sherry, Madeira, Claret
                      FISH
      Rhine or Moselle            Sauterne
                     ENTREE
White Bordeau (Chateau Yquem), Rhine (Cabinet)
                     ROAST
         Burgundy or Chateau (Medoc)
                      GAME
                   Champagne
                     PASTRY
                     Madeira
                     FRUIT
                     Tokay
                     CHEESE
                      Port

                     COFFEE
                     Cordial

      Uncork Sparkling Wines Carefully.
There should be no "pop" and no loss of contents.
   THE     ART     OF      MIXING     THEM

          Abricotine Pousse Cafe.
  Fill pousse cafe glass    full of abricotine and
add maraschino, curacoa, chartreuse and brandy
in equal proportions until the glass is filled. The
ingredients should be poured in one after the
other from a small -wine glass, with great eare,
to prevent the colors from blending. Ignite the
brandy on top, and after it has blazed for a few
seconds extinguish it by placing a saucer or the
bottom of another glass over the blazing fiuid.
Then serve.

        Absinthe (American Style).
  (A large bar glass.) % glass of fine iee; 4 or
5 dashes of gum syrup; 1 pony of absinthe; 2
wineglasses of water. Shake the ingredients until
the outside of the shaker is eovered with ice.
Strain into a large bar glass.
         Absinthe (French Style).
  (A large bar glass.) 1 pony of absinthe. Fill
the bowl of your absinthe glass (which has a
hole in the center) with fine ice and the balance
with water.   Then elevate the howl and let the
contents drip into the glass containing the ab
sinthe, until the color shows a sufficiency. Pour
into a large bar glass.
              Absinthe Frappe.
  Fill medium bar glass full of shaved ice; 1
teaspoonful benedictine; 1 pony absinthe. Shake
until outside of shaker has frosty appearance;
strain into six-ounce shell glass and serve.

        Admiral Schley High Ball.
  Drop 1 piece of ice into a high ball glass;
     THE ART        OF      MIXING     THEM

1 teaspoonful pineapple syrup; 1 teaspoonful
lemon juice; 2^ jigger Irish whisky;         jigger
Tokay, angelica or sweet catawba wine. Fill up
with apollinaris or seltzer.

                      Ale Flip.
    Fill an ale glass nearly full; 1 teaspoonful of
bar sugar; break in 1 whole egg; grate a little
nutmeg on top and serve the drink with a spoon
alongside of the glass..
                 Ale Sangaree.
  Dissolve in an ale glass 1 teaspoonful bar sugar;
nil up with ale and serve with grated nutmeg on
top.
                American Beauty.
    (Use tall thin glass.) 1 teaspoonful of creme
de menthe; fill with shaved ice; then in another
glass mix the following: juice of % orange;
small spoonful of sugar;  jigger good brandy;
/z Jigger French vermouth; pour in the first
glass; dash the top with port wine. Dress with
fruits and a sprig of green mint and serve with
a straw.

            American Pousse Cafe.
  One-fourth maraschino; 3 Curacoa; % chart
reuse (green); % brandy. Keep the colors
separate.

            Apollinaris Lemonade.
    Fill mixing glass 5^ full fine ice; 1 table-
spoonful of powered sugar; the juice of 1 lemon;
1       of Apollinaris water. Stir the above mix-
                      strain into a lembnade glass
with fruit and serve.

                           10
   THE     ART      OF    MIXING      THEM


                Applejack Sour.
  (A large bar glass.) Fill glas % full of fine
ice; ^ tablespoon of sugar in a little water; 2
or 3 dashes of lemon juice; 1 wineglass old ap
plejack. Stir well; strain into a sour glass; dress
with fruit.

                Arrack Punch.
  (A bar glass.) 1 tablespoon of sugar, dissolved
in a little water; 1 or 2 dashes of lemon juice;
1 wineglass of Batavia arrack; half fill glass
with fine ice. Shake well; dress with fruits and
serve with straw.

               Auditorium Cooler.
  Into large bar glass squeeze juice of 1 lemon;
1 teaspoonful bar sugar; 1 bottle ginger ale off
the ice.   Stir; decorate with fruit and berries.
Serve.

              Baltimore Egg Nogg.
   (A large bar glass.) 1 yolk of an egg; %
tablespoon of sugar, add a little nutmeg and
ground cinnamon to it and beat it to a cream;
% pony of brandy; 3 or 4 lumps of ice; i/4 pony
of Jamaica rum; 1 pony of Madeira wine; fill
glass with milk. Shake thoroughly, strain, grate
a little nutmeg on top.

                  Beef Tea.
  (A hot water glass.)         teaspoonful of the
best beef extract; fill the glass with hot water.
Stir up well with a spoon; place pepper, salt,
celery-salt handy, and if so desired, put in a
small pony of sherry wine or brandy.
                          11
   THE     ART      OF    MIXING      THEM

            Bicarbonate of Soda.
  Put into a small glass of carbonated water %
teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, stir well and
serve. Very good for sour stomach..
                    Bishop.
   (A large bar glass.) 1 tablespoon of sugar;
2 dashes of lemon juice; % the juice of an
orange; 1 squirt of seltzer water; % glass of
fine ice, fill the balance with Burgundy; dash
of Jamaica rum.     Stir well.   Dress with fruit
and serve with a straw.

              Blackthorn Sour.
  (Use mixing glass.) Fill ^ full of shaved ice;
2 teaspoonfuls lime or lemon juice; 1 teaspoon
ful pineapple syrup, % teaspoonful abricotine;
1 wineglass Sloe gin. Stir well, strain into
claret glass, dress with fruit and serve.

                 Blue Blazer.
  One-half tablespoonful of sugar, dissolved in
a little hot water; 1 wineglass of Soctch whisky.
Set the liquid on fire, and while blazing, pour
three or four times from one mug into another.
This will give the appearance of a stream of
liquid fire. Twist a piece of lemon peel on top
with a little grated nutmeg. As this preparation
requires skill it is quite requisite that the ama
teur should practice with cold water at first.
         Bonsoir ("Good Night").
  Fill a sherry glass % full of shaved ice, Vi
pany benedictine;    pony crerae Yvette. Fill up
with ginger ale; stir gently and ^erve with a
straw cut in two.

                         12
   THE     ART    OF    MIXING       THEM


             Boston Egg Nogg.
  (A large bar glass.) Yolk of an egg; % table
spoon powdered sugar; add a little nutmeg and
cinnamon and beat to a cream; Vi pony of
brandy; 1 wineglass of ice, 14 pony of Jamaica
rum; 1 wineglass of Madeira wine; fill the glass
with milk. Shake well, strain into a large bar
glass, grate a little nutmeg on top.
      Bowl of Egg Nogg for a Party.
    For a 3-gallon bowl, mix as follows: 214
lbs. of fine powdered sugar; 20 fresh eggs, have
the yolks separated, beat as thin as water, and
add the yolks of the eggs into the sugar and
dissolve by stirring well together; 2 quarts of
good old brandy; 114 pints of Jamaica rum; 2
gallons of good rich milk. Mix the ingredients
well, and stir continually while pouring in the
milk to prevent it from curdling; then beat the
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and put this
on top; then fill a bar glass with a ladle, put
some of the egg froth on top; grate a little nut
meg over it and serve.

                  Brace Up.
 (A large bar glass.) 1 tablespoonful of white
sugar; 2 or 3 dashes of bitters; 2 or 3 dashes
of lemon juice; 1 dash of lime juice; 2 dashes
of anisette; 1 fresh egg; % glass of brandy; 14
glass of shaved ice. Shake this up thoroughly in
a shaker; strain it into a large glass and fill
with Vichy or Apollinaris water.

            Brace Up Saratoga.
  (A large bar glass.) 1 tablespoon of fine white
sugar; 2 to 3 dashes of Boker's bitters; 3 to 4
                       13
   THE      ART     OF   MIXING       THEM

dashes of lime juice; 2 dashes of absinthe; 1
fresh egg; 1 wineglass of brandy; 2 small lumps
of ice. Shake thoroughly; strain into another
glass and fill with seltzer water.
        Brandy Champerelle, No. 1.
  (A sherry glass.)       wineglass of Curacoa
(red);     wineglass of Chartreuse (yellow); %
wineglass of anisette or maraschino; Vi wine
glass of brandy; 2 to 3 drops Angostura bitters.
To be prepared with the same care as in con
cocting Pousse Cafe, not allowing the different
liquors to run into one another.
        Brandy Champerelle, No. 2.
  (A sherry glass.)       wineglass of brandy;
wineglass of maraschino; ^ wineglass of An
gostura bitters. Keep colors separate.
                  Brandy Crusta.
  (A large bar glass.) % glass of fine ice; 3 to 4
dashes of gum syrup; 1 or 2 dashes of Angostura
bitters; 1 or 2 dashes of lemon juice, 2 dashes
of maraschino; 1 wineglass of brandy. Procure
a nice, bright lemon the size of your wineglass.
Peel the rind from it all in one piece; fit it into
the glass, covering the entire inside; run a slice
of lemon around the edge and dip the glass in
powdered sugar. Strain the mixture, after being
stirred well, into the prepared glass. Dress with
a little fruit.
                  Brandy Daisy.
  (A small bar glass.) 3 or 4 dashes of gum
syrup; Vz the juice of a lemon; 2 6r 3 dashes of
orange cordial; 1 wineglass brandy; fill glass
half full of fine ice. Shake thoroughly; strain
and fill up with seltzer water or Apollinaris.
                         14
   THE ART OF MIXING THEM

                Brandy Fix.
  (A large bar glass.) Fill glass with fine ice;
% tablespoon of sugar, dissolved in V2 wineglass
of seltzer water; 14 pony of pineapple syrup; 1
wineglass of brandy. Stir with a spoon. Dress
with fruits. Serve with a straw.
                 Brandy Fizz.
_ (A large bar glass.) % teaspoon of fine sugar;
juice of % lemon; 1 wineglass of brandy; 1 or 2
dashes of white of egg; glass of fine ice. Shake
well. Strain into a fizz glass; fill up with seltzer
or Vichy. This must be imbibed immediately
                 Brandy Flip.
  (A large bar glass.) 1/2 glass of fine ice; 1
egg, beaten thoroughly; 1/2 tablespoon of sugar;
1 wineglass of brandy. Use a shaker in mixing;
strain into a fancy bar glass; grate a little nut
meg on top.
                 Brandy Float.
  Serve same as pony glass of brandy, but be
fore removing pony glass from whisky glass fill
the latter full of water; then slowly withdraw
pony glass, allowing the brandy to float on top
of the water.                                     ^
                Brandy Julep.
  Into a small bar glass pour % wine glass of
water and stir in 1 heaping teaspoonful of bar
sugar. Bruise 3 or 4 sprigs of mint in the sugar
and water with a muddler until the flavor of the
mint has been extracted. Then withdraw the
mint and pour the flavored water into a tall shell
glass or large goblet, which has been filled with
fine ice, and add: 1 j'igger of brandy; 2 dashes
Jamacia rum. Stir well; decorate with few
                        15
   THE ART OF MIXING THEM

sprigs of mint by planting the sprigs stems down
ward in the ice around the rim of glass; dress
with fruit and serve.
              Brandy Punch.
 (A large bar glass.) 1 tablespoon of sugar dis
solved in a little water, Va of a small lemon; ^
glass of St. Ci-oix rum; iVz wineglass of brandy;
1 piece of pineapple; 1 or 2 slices of orange; fill
glass with fine ice. Shake well. Dress with
fruits and serve with a straw.
             Brandy Sangaree.
  (A small bar glass.) 2 small lumps of ice; %
wineglass of water; % wineglass of brandy; 1
teaspoon of sugar. Stir well; give a dash of
port wine on top.
               Brandy Scaflfa.
  (Use sherry glass.) (4 sherry glass raspberry
syrup; >4 glass maraschino;   glass green Char
treuse. Top off with brandy and serve. This
drink is made like a pousse cafe.
               Brcindy Shake.
  Fill small bar glass % full shaved ice; 1 tea-
spoonful bar sugar; juice of 2 limes; 1 jigger
brandy. Shake well. Strain into small fancy
glass and serve.
                  Brandy Shrub.
  (Use bowl to make 8 quarts.) For 40 people.
6 lbs. of loaf sugar dissolved well with a bottle
of plain soda; 5 quarts of old brandy; 3 quarts
of sherry; 12 lemons. Peel the rind of 5 lemons;
add the juice of the other 7 lemons and mix with
the brandy in the bowl; cover it close for 5 days;
then add the sherry and sugar; strain through a
hag and bottle.
                        16
   THE       ART   OF     MIXING      THEM


                 Brandy Sling.
  (A hot-water glass.) 1 lump of sugar; 1 wine
glass of brandy; fill up with hot water. Stir
well; grate nutmeg on top. For a cold brandy
Sling, use a lump of ice and cold water.
                Brandy Smash.
  (A large bar glass.) % tablespoon of sugar, %
wiiieglass of water; 3 or 3 sprigs of mint, pressed
as in mint julep; 1 wineglass of brandy; fill glass
% full of fine ice. Stir well; strain into a fancy
bar glass.
                 Brandy Sour.
  (A large bar glass.) Fill glass with ice; %
tablespoon of sugar, 2 or 3 dashes of lemon juice;
a squirt of seltzer; 1 wineglass of brandy. Stir
well; strain into a sour glass; dress with fruits
as usual.
            Brandy and Gum.
  (A whisky glass.) 1 or 2 dashes of gum syrup;
1 or 2 lumps of ice. Place a spoon in the glass
and stir in the brandy.
              Brandy and Soda.
  (A large bar glass.) 1 wineglass of brandy; %
glass of fine ice; fill up with plain soda. The
above is a pleasing drink for summer

        Brandy, burned, and Peach.
  (A small bar glass.) 1 wineglass of brandy; %
tablespoonful of sugar; burn brandy and sugar
together in a dish or saucer, 2 or 3 slices dried
peach. Place the fruit in the glass, pour the
burned liquid over it, grate a little nutmeg on
top. The above is a Southern preparation and
often used in cases of diarrhoea.

                        17
    THE     ART     OF     MIXING      THEM

               Cardinal Punch.
   Cover the bottom of a pimch bowl with loaf
sugar; pour in four pints of mineral water; four
pints of claret; one pint of cognac; one pint of
rum; one pint of Sparkling Moselle; one gill of
Vermouth; three oranges sliced; one slice of
pineapple. Put in a large piece of ice. Serve
when cold in flat glasses.
                 Celery Sour.
  Fill large bar glass full shaved ice; 1 teaspoon-
ful lemon juice; 1 teaspoonful pineapple syrap;
1 teaspoonful celery bitters. Stir; strain into
fancy wineglass with fruit and serve.
            Champagne Cobbler.
  (A large bar glass.) % tablespoon of sugar;
1 slice of orange; 1 piece of lemon peel; fill
of a glass with fine ice and the balance with wine.
Dress with fruits and serve with a straw. Never
use the shaker to champagne beverages.
              Champagne Cup.
  (A large punch bowl for a party.) 2 wine
glasses of pineapple syrup; 4 to 6 sprigs of green
balm; 1 quart of Curacoa; 1 pin of Chartreuse
(green); 1 quart of fine old Cognac; 1 quart
of Tokay; 4 bottles of Apollinaris; 6 oranges and
2 lemons cut in slices. Stir up well together, let
it stand two hours, strain it into another bowl
and add: % pineapple cut in slices; % box of
strawberries; 6 bottles of champagne. Place the
bowl in the ice, and sweeten with a little sugar
and let it ferment; stir up well and serve.
             Champagne Julep.
-• (A large bar glass.)    1 lump of white sugar;
                          18
   THE       ART    OP    MIXING        THEM


1 sprig of mint press to extract the essence, ponr
the wine into the glass slowly, stirring gently
continually. Dress tastily with sliced orange,
grapes and berries.

              Champagne Punch.
  (Served in champagne goblets.) 1 quart bottle
of wine; % It"- of sugar; 1 orange, sliced; the
juice of a lemon; 3 or 4 slices of pineapple; 1
wineglass of strawberry syrup. Dress with fruit.
               Champagne Sour.
  (A large bar glass.) 1 teaspoon of sugar; 2
or 3 dashes of lemon juice, J/J fine ice; fill up with
wine. Stir well, and dress with fruit and berries
in season.

              Champagne Velvet.
  Fill a goblet % full ice-cold champagne. Pill
up balance of goblet with ice-cold porter. Stir
and serve.
              Chocolate Punch.
  Pill large bar glass  full shaved ice; 1 tea-
spoonful bar sugar; % jigger Guracoa; 1 jiggel
port wine; 1 egg. Pill up with milk; shake wellj
strain into punch glass; grate nutmeg on tcy
and serve.
               Cider Egg Nogg.
  (A large bar glass.) 1 fresh egg; % tablespoon
of sugar; 3 or 4 small lumps of ice; fill the glass
with cider. Shake well and strain, grate a little
nutmeg on top. This drink is a very pleasant one
and is popular throughout the southern part of
the country and it is not intoxicating. Use the
very best quality of cider, as by using poor cider
it is impossible to make this drink palatable.
                         19
    THE        ART    OF    MIXING            THEM


                  Cider Punch,
   One-lialf pint of sherry; 1 glass of brandy; 1
 bottle of cider;   pound of sugar; 1 lemon. Pare
 the peel of half the lemon very thin; pour the
 sherry upon it; add the sugar, the juice of the
 lemon, and the cider, with a little grated nutmeg.
 Mix well and place it on ice. When cold, add the
 brandy and a few pieces of cucumber rind.
         Claret and Champagne Cup.
  (A large punch bowl for a party of twenty.)
Claret and champagne cup is a Russian drink,
where for many years it has enjoyed a high
reputation amongst the aristocracy. Proportions:
3 bottles claret wine, % pint of Curacoa (red);
1 pint of sherry; 1 pint of French brandy; 2
wineglasses of ratafia of raspberries; 8 oranges
and 1 lemon, cut in slices; some sprigs of green
balm and borage; 2 bottles of Apollinaris;
3 bottles of soda.       Stir this together and
sweeten with capillaire pounded sugar, until it
ferments; let it stand one hour; strain and ice
it well; it is then fit for use; serve it in small
glasses. This quantity for an evening party of
twenty persons; for a smaller number reduce the
 proportion.                              -
            Claret Cup for a Party.
   (Use a bowl for mixing.)        10 to 12 pieces of
lump sugar;1 bottle of Apollinaris; ,2 lemons, 2
oranges and Vs pineapple, cut in micesr 2 wine
 glasses of maraschino. Mix w(jil rivith-a ladle,
 place this into your vessel or tijj' dish filled with
 ice. When the party is ready to call' fbf it add:
 4 bottles of fine claret; 1 b'dttle of champagne,
,or any other sparkling'■'jVifie;'' 'Mix'thbfoughly
and place sufficient berri'e^'on't'b'p; find' 'se'rve it,
and you will have'fiii'-ele^aiff Crarfet'CuipV' '
                           20
   THE    ART     OF    MIXING        THEM


                   Claret Flip.
  Fill large bar glass % full shaved ice; 2 heap
ing teaspoonfuls bar sugar dissolved in a little
water; 1 whole egg broken in; 1% jiggers claret
wine. Shake thoroughly; strain into punch
glass; sprinkle little nutmeg on top and serve.

                Claret Punch.
 (A large bar glass.) iVz tablespoons of sugar;
1 slice of lemon; 2 slices of orange; fill glass
with fine ice; pour in claret wine. Shake well.
Dress with fruit in season, and serve with a
straw.
             Cocktail Absinthe.
  (A large bar glass.) Fill tumbler with ice; 3
or 4 dashes of gum syrup; 1 dash of Angostura
bitters; 1 dash of anisette; ^4 wineglass of water;
% wineglass absinthe. Stir well; strain into a
fancy cocktail glass. Twist a piece of lemon peel
on top.
             Cocktail Amaranth
  Make a regular cocktail and strain into a
whisky glass. Fill up with seltzer or Vichy water.
Dip a small spoon in fine sugar, and with what
sugar remains upon spoon stir up the cocktail so
as to cause it to ferment; have the spoon a little
wet when dipping in the sugar.

              Cocktail Applejack
  (A large bar glass.). 2 or 3 dashes of gum
syrup; 2 or 3 dashes of raspberry syrup; 1 wine
glass of applejack; fill glass half full of fine
ice. Shake well; strain into a cocktail glass;
twist a bit of lemon peel in it.
                        21
   THE      ART       OE    MIXING         THEM

              Cocktail, Bamboo.
  Fill large bar glass          full fine ice; % jigger
sherry wine; % jigger Italian vermouth. Stir;
strain into cocktail glass. Serve.

                Cocktail, Bijou.
  (Use large bar glass.)         % glass filled with
shaved ice;      wineglass green chartreuse; y
wineglass Italian vermouth; y wineglass Ply
mouth gin. Stir well with the spoon, and after
straining in cocktail glass add cherry or small
olive, and serve after squeezing lemon peel on
top.
           Cocktail, Blackthome.
  Fill mixing glass        full fine ice; 1 teaspoon-
ful of syrup;         teaspoonful of lemon juice;'
2 dashes orange bitters; 1 dash Peychaud or
Angostura bitters; % wineglass Italian ver
mouth; y wineglass Sloe gin. Stir the above
ingredients thoroughly and strain into a cock
tail glass and serve.

            Cocktail, Brandy.
 (A large bar glass.) 2 or 3 dashes of gum
syrup;; 2 or 8 dashes of Angostura or BokeFs
bitters; 1 or 2 dashes of Curacoa; 1 wineglass of
brandy; % glass of fine ice. Stir well and strain
into a cocktail glass. Twist in a piece of lemon
peel to extract the oil.              '

       Cocktail, Fancy Brandy, No. 1.
 (A large bar glass.) Fill your glass % full of
fine ice; 2 or 3 dashes of gum syrup; 2 dashes
                           22
   THE    ART     OF    MIXING        THEM

of Angostura bitters; 1 or 2 dashes of Curacoa;
1 wineglass brandy. Stir well with a spoon.
Strain into a fancy cocktail glass. Twist a piece
of lemon peel on top. A squirt of champagne
will add to the delicacy of flavor.

      Cocktail, Fancy Brandy No. 2.
  (A large bar glass.) 2 or 3 dashes of gum
syrup; 2 dashes of maraschino; 2 dashes of An
gostura hitters; 1 wineglass brandy. Twist a
piece of lemon peel in the mixture, expressing the
oil; fill glass % full of fine ice. Shake well and
strain into a fancy cocktail glass, the rim of
which has been moistened with lemon juice.

               Cocktail, Bronx.
  Fill large bar glass % full shaved ice;    jigger
gin;     jigger French vermouth; i/J jigger Italian
vermouth; 1 slice orange. Shake well; strain
into cocktail glass and serve.

          Cocktail, Buster Brown.
  Fill large bar glass   full shaved ice; 1 tea-
spoonful gum syrup; 2 dashes lemon juice; 2
dashes orange bitters; 1 jigger whiskey. Stir;
strain into cocktail glass and serve.

            Cocktail, Champagne.
  (A champagne goblet.) Fill Yj of the gohlet
 with broken ice; 1 lump of sugar; 1 or 2 dashes
 of Angostura bitters; 1 or 2 dashes of orange;
 fill up with wine and stir. Serve with a piece
 of twisted lemon peel on top.
                         28
   THE     ART     OF      MIXING        THEM


            Cocktail, Cincinnati.
  (Use large bar glass.)        glass of beer; Vfe
glass of soda or ginger ale. This is a particularly
palatable drink for warm weather.

            Cocktail, Clover Club.
  Fill large bar glass % full fine ice; % pony
raspberry syrup; y, jigger dry gin; 1/2 jigger
French vermouth; white of 1 egg. Shake well;
strain into cocktail glass and serve.

           Cocktail, Coronation.
  (Use mixing glass.) Fill half with cracked ice;
2 dashes Maraschino; 3 dashes orange bitters; 1
pony French vermouth; 1 gill dry sherry. Stir
well, strain into cocktail glass, add olive and
twist lemon peel on top.
             Cocktail, Du Barry.
  One dash boonekamp bitters; 2 dashes absinthe;
2 dashes gum syrup; 1 pony French vermouth;
1 pony of dry gin, ice.      Serve in cocktail glass
with % slice of orange.
            Cocktail, Dubonnet.
  Fill mixing glass with cracked ice; one half
Dubonnet; one half sherry; slice of orange. Shake
well and frappe.

              Cocktail, Dixie.
  Add to a plain whiskey cocktail: 1 dash Cur-
acoa; 6 drops creme de menthe. ,

                Cocktail, Gin.
  (A large bar glass.) 2 or 3 dashes of gum
syrup; 2 dashes of Angostura bitters; 1 wine-
                        24
   THE     AET     OF    MIXING        THEM

glass gin; 1 or 2 dashes of Curacoa, or absinthe,
as the person prefers; fill the glass with fine ice.
Stir up well; strain into a cocktail glass, squeeze
a piece of lemon peel on top.
                Cocktail, Irish.
  (Use large bar glass.) Fill glass with shaved
ice; 2 dashes of absinthe; 1 dash maraschino; 1
dash Curacoa; 2 dashes bitters; 1 wineglass of
Irish whisky. Stir well with spoon, and after
straining in cocktail glass, put in medium olive
and squeeze lemon peel on top.
               Cocktail, Jersey.
   (A large bar glass.) Vi tablespoon of sugar;
4 or 5 pieces of ice; 2 or 3 dashes of bitters;
fill up with cider. Twist a piece of lemon peel on
top, or use only i wineglass of cider and strain
into a cocktail glass.
            Cocktail, Livingston.
  Fill large bar glass % full shaved ice; 2 dashes
gum syrup; 2^ jigger Old Tom gin; ^ jigger
Italian vermouth. Stir well; strain into cock
tail glass; twist a piece of lemon peel over the
drink and drop it in. Serve.

             Cocktail, Lone Tree.
  Half Plymouth gin; half French vermouth.
Frappe. No bitters.
    Cocktail, Manhattan Club Oyster.
  Take the juice of % a lemon, strain into a
large goblet; 1 or 2 dashes of Tabasco sauce; 1
teaspoon of pepper sauce; trace of vinegar; a
pinch of salt; a little red pepper, slightly larger
quantity of white pepper.       This entire array
                         26
   THE AET         OF    MIXING         THEM

forms but the seasoning for the liquor of %
a dozen freshly opened succulent Blue Point
oysters, which is next added to the contents of
the glass, and completes the cocktal.
       Cocktail, Manhattan, No. 1.
 (A small wineglass.) 1 pony of French ver
mouth; % pony of whisky; 3 or 4 dashes of
Angostura hitters; 3 dashes of gum syrup.
        Cocktail, Manhattan, No. 2.
  Two dashes of Curacoa; 3 dashes of Angostura
hitters; % wineglass of whisky; % wineglass of
Italian vermouth; fine ice. Stir well and strain
into a cocktail glass.
               Cocktail, Martini.
  Fill large bar glass  full shaved ice; 3 dashes
.^gostura bitters; 6 dashes orange hitters; %
jigger Old Tom gin;     jigger vermouth. Stir;
strain into cocktail glass and serve.
          Cocktail, Merry Widow.
  Fill large bar glass      full fine ice; 1 dash
orange hitters; Vz jigger dry gin;    jigger Byrrh
wme. Stir; strain into cocktail glass and serve
with piece of orange peel on top.'
                Cocktail, Mint.
  (Use large bar glass.) Crush 3 sprigs mint,
fresh; 3 dashes orange hitters; 3 dashes syrup;
1 dash absinthe; 1 jigger whisky; cracked ice;
1 squirt seltzer. Mix with spoon, strain in cock
tail glass and serve.

             Cocktail, Morning.
  (A medium bar glass.) 3 or 4 dashes of gum
                        26
   THE     ART    OF    MIXING          THEM

syrup; 2 dashes of Curacoa (red); 2 dashes of
BokeFs bitters; 1 dash of absinthe; 1 pony of
best brandy; 1 pony of whisky; 1 piece of
lemon peel, twisted to extract the oil; 3 small
lumps of ice. Stir thoroughly and remove the
ice. Fill the glass with seltzer water, and stir
with a teaspoon having a little sugar in it.
          Cocktail, Old-Fashioned.
  In an old-fashioned cocktail glass put: 1 lump
sugar and a dash of mineral water.      Crush the
sugar with muddler. 1 piece ice; 1 dash Angos
tura or Boker's bitters; 1 dash orange bitters; 1
jigger whiskey. Stir; twist a piece of lemon peel
on top and serve with a spoon.
          Cocktail, Old Tom Gin.
 (A large bar glass.) Fill glass with fine ice;
2 or 3 dashes of gum syrup; 1 or 2 dashes of
Angostura bitters; 1 or 2 dashes of Curacoa; 1
wineglass of Old Tom gin. Stir well. Strain.
Twist a piece of lemon peel on top.
            Cocktail, Ping Pong.
  (This recipe, arranged by James E. Bennett,
of the Broken Heart Cafe, 16 South Broadway,
St. Louis, Mo., won the Police Gazette Bartend
ers' Medal for 1903.) (Use mixing glass.) 3
dashes lemon juice; % jigger sloe gin; % jigger
Cream Yvette. Fill glass with fine ice, mix and
strain in cocktail glass, add cherry.
            Cocktail, Princeton.
  (Use mixing glass.) 8 dashes orange bitters;
A Tom gm; fill with ice; strain into cocktail
'      add 1 good dash of port wine carefully
   THE       ART    OF    MIXING        THEM

and let it settle to the bottom before serving;
lemon on top.

                Cocktail, Queen.
  Fill mixing glass with cracked ice; two-thirds
dry gin; one-third Italian vermouth; one slice
of orange and piece of pineapple. Frappe, strain
and serve.

             Cocktail, Racquet Club.
  Fill mixing glass with cracked ice; dash of
orange bitters; two-thirds Plymouth gin; one-
third French Vermouth. Shake well, strain and
serve.

             Cocktail, Rising Sun.
  Fill large bar glass with shaved ice; 1 teaspoon-
ful pineapple syrup; 1 teaspoonful Curacoa; 2
dashes Maraschino; 3 dashes Angostura bitters;
1 jigger brandy. Stir; strain into cocktail glass
and serve with a piece of lemon peel twisted on
top.
               Cocktail, Rob Roy.
  Fill large bar glass % full shaved ice; 2 dashes
gum syrup; Yz jigger apple brandy; % jigger ver
mouth. Stir; strain into cocktail glass and serve.

             Cocktail, Saratoga.
  (A large bar glass.) Vs glass of fine-shaved ice;
3 dashes of pineapple syrup; 2 or 3 dashes of
bitters; 3 dashes of maraschino; % glass of fine
old brandy. Mix well with a spoon and place
2 or 3 straw berries in a fancy glass; strain it,
twist a piece of lemon peel over it, top it off with
a squirt of champagne.
                         28
   THE     ART     OF    MIXING       THEM


               Cocktail, Sazerac.
  In a large mixing glass dissolve one lump sugar
in teaspoonful of water; one dash Peyehaud bit
ters; one dash Angostura bitters; half wine glass
whiskey and cube of ice. Cool another tumbler,
put in dash of absinthe. Stir and strain contents
of mixing glass into it. Squeeze a piece of lemon
peel on top.
               Cocktail, Sherry.
  (Large bar glass half full cracked ice.) 1
dash Angostura; 3 dashes syrup; 3 dashes Cura-
coa; % jigger vermouth; 1 jigger sherry wine;
stir well with spoon; strain in cocktail glass and
serve with cherries.

                Cocktail, Soda.
  (A large bar glass.) 1 teaspoon of sugar; 3 or
3 dashes of bitters (Angostura); 5 or 6 lumps of
ice; fill glass with a bottle of lemon soda. Stir
well. You may put a slice of orange on top and
berries.

   Cocktail, Southern Club Manhattan.
  (Mixing glass.) ^ full shaved ice; 1 dash
syrup; 4 dashes Curacoa; 2 dashes maraschino;
2 dashes Peyehaud bitters; 1 small jigger Italian
yermoutb; 1 small jigger rye whisky. Strain
into cool cocktail glass, squeeze orange peel on
top and serve. Don't put peel in glass.
           Cocktail, Speedway.
  Four dashes absinthe; 2 dashes maraschino;
3 dashes orange bitters; 1 wineglass Irish whisky
fill mixing glass with shaved ice; stir contents
well; strain off into cocktail glass, twist lemon
skin on top and serve.
   THE     ART     OF    MIXING        THEM

                Cocktail, Star.
  (Use large bar glass.) % glass of shaved ice;
1 or a dashes gum; 1 dash Curacoa; 3 dashes bit
ters; % wineglass French vermouth; Vz wineglass
applejack. Stir with spoon, and after straining
in cocktail glass, serve after squeezing lemon
peel on top.
               Cocktail, Trilby.
  (Use large bar glass.) Fill glass with shaved
ice; 3 dashes absinthe; 3 dashes orange bitters;
3 dashes Parfait d'Amour; % wineglass Scotch
whisky; % wineglass Italian vermouth. Stir
with spoon, strain in cocktail glass, put in
cherries, squeeze lemon peel on top and serve.
              Cocktail, Tuxedo.
  Fill large bar glass % full shaved ice; 3 tea-
spoonfuls sherry wine; % jigger Italian vermouth;
1 dash Angostura bitters; % jigger Old Tom gin.
Stir well; strain into cocktail glass and serve.

       Cocktail, Vermouth, No. 1.
 (A small glass.) iVg pony of French vermouth;
3 dashes of Angostura bitters; 3 dashes of gum
syrup.
        Cocktail, Vermouth, No. 2.
  (A large bar glass.) % glass of fine ice; 4 to
5 dashes of gum syrup; 1 or 3 dashes of An
gostura bitters; 3 dasbes of maraschino; 1 wine
glass of vermouth. Stir well. Strain into a
cocktail glass. A piece of lemon peel on top.
               Cocktail, Whiskey.
  (A large bar glass.) % glass of fine ice; 3
or 3 dashes of gum syrup; 1 or 3 dashes of An-
                        80
   THE ART OF MIXING THEM

gostura bitters; 1 or 3 dashes of Ouracoa- 1
wineglass of whisky. Stir well. Strain into a
cocktail glass. Twist a piece of lemon peel on
top.

         Cocktail, Widow's Dream.
  Put one-half wine glass of Benedictine into
cocktail glass; break a fresh, ice-cold egg into it.
Fill up with milk and cream.

              Cocktail, Yale.
  Three dashes orange bitters; 1 dash Boker's
bitters; add a portion of Tom gin, ice; mix, strain
into cocktail glass; add a squirt of syphon;
lemon on top.

                  Cocktail, Zaza.
  Fill large bar glass ^ full fine ice; % jigger
dry gin; % jigger Dubonnet orange bitters. Stir;
strain into cocktail glass; serve with piece of
orange peel on top.

                Cohasset Punch.
  Fill large bar glass i/g full shaved ice; 1 jigger
New England rum; 1 jigger vermouth; 3 dashes
gum syrup; i dash orange bitters;  juice of a
lemon. Stir and serve with a preserved peach
and its liquor.

            Cosmopolitan Cooler.
  The juice of two limes; one teaspoonful of
powdered sugar; a few dashes of ApoUinaris; half
wine glass of St. Croix rum. Fill glass with fine
ice; stir all ingredients well; one dash of Jamaica
rum on top. Ornament with fruits of the season.
                        81
   THE ART OF MIXING THEM

         Crimean Cup a Lia Marmora.
  (Use a bowl for mixing.) 1 pint of orgeat
syrup; Yi pint of Cognac; pint of maraschino;
Vi pint of Jamaica rum; 1 bottle of champagne;
1 bottle of soda; 3 ounces of sugar; 3 lemons
and 3 oranges; cut in slices, and a few slices of
pineapple. Stir up well with ladle, then place it
into your dish filled with ice.

               Curacoa Punch.
 (A large bar glass.) % tablespoon of sugar;
8 or 4 dashes of lemon juice; 1 wineglass of
brandy; 1 pony Curacoa (red);       pony Jamaica
rum. Dress with fruits as usual. Fill with fine
ice and sip through a straw.

                   Currant Shrub.
  (Use a bowl for mixing; general rule for pre
paring.) 1 quart of currant juice; IVi lbs. of
loaf sugar. Boil it gently 8 or 10 minutes, skim
ming it well; take it off, and when lukewarm,
add % gill of brandy to every pint of shrub.
Bottle tight. Mix a little shrub with ice water
and you will have a ''"-^Wous drink. Shrub may
be made of cher..;, _ ._£:pberry juice by this
method, hut the quantity of sugar must be re
duced.
                 Dizzy Sour.
  (Use large bar glass.) Mash Va lemon; 3 spoon
fuls of powdered sugar; % full of fine ice; 1 J'S"
ger rye whisky; 3 dashes benedictine. Shake
well, strain in a sour glass, put in a piece of
pineapple, float     jigger Jamaica rum on top and
serve.

                         82
   THE     ART    OF    MIXING       THEM


               Eagle's Dream.
  (Use mixing glass.) % glass cracked ice; 1
tablespoonful of powdered sugar; 4 dashes lemon
juice; white of 1 egg; i/g jigger Old Tom gin.
Shake well; strain into hollow stem champagne
glass; add 1/4 jigger Creme de Rose; float with
claret wine.

                 Eagle Fizz.
  (Use large bar glass.) 1 tablespoonful of
pulverized sugar; 3 dashes lemon juice; the white
of 1 egg; 1 wineglass of gin; 1 dash of creme de
vanilla; 2 dashes of orange flower water; 1 dash
of seltzer water; fine shaved ice. Fill glass with
rich milk; shake well and strain; serve in same
glass, but with thin punch glass to drink from.

               Egg Milk Punch.
  (A large bar glass.) 1 egg; % tablespoon of
sugar; 1 wineglass of brandy; 1 pony of St. Croix
rum; Vs glass of flne ice; fill up with milk. Use
the shaker in mixing, which must be done thor
oughly to a cream. Strain; grate a little nutmeg
on top.
             Egg Nogg (Plain).
  One tablespoon of sugar; 1 fresh egg;     glass
of flne ice; 1 wineglass of whisky; flll up with
milk. Shake thoroughly in an "egg nog" shaker
and strain. Grate a little nutmeg on top.
                  Egg Sour.
  One tablespoon of powdered sugar; 8 lumps of
ice; 1 egg; juice of 1 lemon. Shake thoroughly;
serve with straw; nutmeg grated on top.
                        S3
   THE ART OF MIXING THEM

               El Dorado Punch.
  Fill large bar glass nearly full shaved ice; 1
tablespoonful bar sugar; % jigger whiskey; %
jigger Jamaica rum; % j'SS®^ brandy; 1
lemon. Shake; dress with fruit and serve with
straws.
                 English Bishop.
  (Use a small punch bowl.) 1 quart of the
hest port wine; 1 orange (stuck pretty well with
cloves). Roast the orange before a fire, and when
sufiBciently brown cut in quarters and pour over
it the port wine (previously made hot), add sugar
to taste, and let the mixture simmer over the
fire for half an hour.

                      Fedora.
  (A large bar glass.) 1 pony of the best brandy;
1 pony of Curacoa;        pony of Jamaica rum;
pony of Bourbon; 1 tablespoon of sugar, dissolved
in a little water; 1 slice of lemon; fill the tumbler
with fine ice.     Shake well and ornament with
berries or small pieces of orange; serve with a
straw.

  Fish Club Punch (for a party of 8).
  Into a punch bowl pour: 2% jiggers lemon
juice; 4 jiggers peach brandy; 2 jiggers Cognac
brandy; 2 jiggers Jamaica rum; % lbs. bar sugar;
3 pints ice water. Stir well; ladle into punch
glass and serve.
            Frapped Cafe Royal.
    It consists of % of black coffee and %
brandy, frapped in a cooler, and drank while the
mixture is yet in a semi-frozen state.
                         14
   THE ART          OF    MIXING        THEM

                  Gin Daisy.
  Is prepared in the same manner as the Brandy
Daisy, substituting gin for brandy.
                     Gin Fix.
  (A large bar glass.)    tablespoon of sugar in
a little seltzer; % pony of pineapple syrup; fill
glass with fine ice; 1 wineglass of Holland gin.
Stir well. Dress with fruits and serve with a
straw.
                    Gin Fizz.
  (A large bar glass.) V2 tablespoon of sugar;
3 or 4 dashes of lemon juice; 1 wineglass of Old
Tom gin; put all in the glass, half full of fine ice.
Stir well with a spoon; strain into a fizz glass.
Fill up with seltzer or vichy water and do not fail
to drink quickly.
                    Gin Flip.
  (A large bar glass.) 1 tablespoon of sugar, dis
solve in a little seltzer water; 1 wineglass of
Holland gin; fill glass 1/2 full of fine ice. Shake
well and strain into a fancy glass.
                 Gin Julep.
  (A large bar glass.) Fill with fine ice; %
tablespoon of sugar; % wineglass of water, 3
or 4 sprigs of mint, pressed as in mint julep' to
extract the essence; 1^4 wineglasses of Holland
gin. Stir well, and dress with fruits in season.
                    Gin Punch.
  (A large bar glass.) 3 tablespoons of white
sugar; 1 pony of seltzer; 11/2 wineglass of
Holland gin; 4 or 5 dashes of lemon juice; fill
glass with fine ice. Shake well. Dress with 3
                         36
   THE     ART      OF    MIXING        THEM

slices of orange; Va slice of pineapple, and berries;
serve with a straw.

                  Gin Rickey.
  Drop 1 lump of ice in rickey (thin champagne)
glass; juice of 1 lemon or lime. Place glass and
bottle of gin before customer and let him pour
his own drink.    Fill up with carbonated water
or seltzer and serve.

                   Gin Sling.
  One lump of sugar, dissolved in a little water;
1 lump of ice; 1 wineglass of gin. Stir, and
grate a little nutmeg on top.

                  Gin Smash.
  (A large bar glass.) Va glass of fine ice; %
tablespoon of sugar; 2 or 3 sprigs of mint, pressed
as in mint julep; 1 wineglass of Holland gin.
Stir well; strain into a sour glass; dress with
fruit.
                    Gin Sour.
  (A small bar glass.) % tablespoon of sugar;
4 or 5 dashes of lemon juice; 1 squirt seltzer
water; % glass of fine ice; 1 wineglass of Hol
land gin Stir well; strain into a sour glass;
dress with a little fruit

                  Golden Fizz.
  One egg (yolk only); 1 tablespoon of sugar;
2 or 3 dashes of lemon juice; 1 wineglass of
Old Tom gin or whisky; % glass of fine ice. Use
the shaker well; strain into a fizz glass. Fill up
with seltzer or vichy and drink immediately.
                         36
   THE ART          OF     MIXING      THE2iI

                Golden Slipper.
  Into a wineglass pour:   jigger yellow Char
treuse; 1 yolk of an egg, dropped in without
breaking the yolk; V2 jigger Danziger goldwasser.
(Popular lady's drink.)

             Golf Links High Ball.
  Drop 1 piece of ice into a high ball glass; 4
dashes lemon juice; 4 dashes pineapple syrup;
V2 jigger Sweet Catawba or Angelica wine; Yg
jigger whiskey; 2 dashes New England rum. Fill
up with seltzer or Apollinaris water; stir and
serve.

              Golf Links Punch.
  Fill large bar glass Yi ^"11 shaved ice; 2 tea-
spoonsfuls bar sugar; Y2 juice of 1 lemon; % jig
ger Tokay or Sweet Catawba wine; 1 teaspoon-
ful green Chartreuse; 1 teaspoonful Jamaica rum;
Vz jigger rye whiskey; 1 white of an egg. Shake
hard; strain into tall thin glass; fill with aerated
water; dress with fruit; grate nutmeg on top
and serve.

             Grape Juice Highball.
  Use an eight or ten ounce glass, in which place
the grape juice. Add a lump or two of ice and
fill with Apollinaris.   Sugar may be added if
desired.

                 Half-and-Half.
  (A large ale glass.) This is a common English
drink and means half porter and half ale, but in
this country we use half old ale and half new. It
is always best to ask the person how he desires it.
                          37
   THE     ART     OF    MIXING       THEM


                   Hari-Kari.
   Make a whisky sour large enough to half fill
a brandy glass or tumbler when strained, and
fill with seltzer or vichy to suit the party. Dress
with fruits in season.

                   High Ball.
  Drop a lump of ice in a high ball glass and place
it before the customer, together with a bottle of
Scotch rye or Bourbon whiskey, as preferred, in
order that he may pour his own drink. Then fill
up with Apollinaris or seltzer.
          Hoffman House Punch.
  (For party of six or more.) (Use punch bowl
and 1 large piece clear ice.) The juice of 2 lem
ons; the juice of 2 oranges; % j'ggsr St. Groix
rum; 1 jigger maraschino; 1 jigger white Cu-
racoa; 2 jiggers brandy; 2 quarts champagne;
1 pint burgundy. Add quart Apollinaris. Before
serving sweeten according to taste and fruit well.

                 Horse's Neck.
  (Use large size fizz glass.) Peel lemon in 1
long string, place in glass so one end hangs over;
3 or 4 lumps broken ice; fill with imported ginger
ale.
             Hot Arrack Punch.
  (A hot water glass.) 1 teaspoon of sugar; 1
or 2 dashes of lemon juice; % wineglass arrack;
fill up with hot water. Stir well; grate a little
nutmeg on top.
                Hot Gin Sling.
  (A hot water glass.) 1 teaspoon of sugar; 1
wineglass Holland gin; fill up with hot water.
Stir well, grate a little nutmeg on top.
                         38
   THE ART         OF   MIXING         THEM

               Hot Irish Punch.
 ( A hot water glass.) 1 or 2 lumps of sugar;
1 or 2 dashes of lemon juice; 1 wineglass of Irish
whisky; fill up with hot water. Stir well; place
a slice of lemon on top; grate a little nutmeg.
               Hot Milk Punch.
  (A large bar glass.) 1 tablespoon of sugar; %
wineglass of St. Croix rum; % wineglass of
brandy; fill the glass with hot milk. Mix well
with a spoon; grate nutmeg on top. Always mix
with a spoon. Never use the shaker to this.

                  Hot Rxun.
  (A hot water glass.) 1 teaspoon of sugar; a
small lump of butter; 1 wineglass of Jamaica
rum. Fill the glass with hot water; stir well;
omit spices.
       Hot Scotch Whiskey Sling.
 (A hot water glass.)        1 wineglass of Scotch
whisky; 1 lump of sugar; a piece of lemon peel;
fill the glass % full of boiling water; grate nut
meg on top.
             Hot Spiced Rum.
  (A hot water glass.) 1 teaspoon of sugar; 1
teaspoon of mixed whole allspice and cloves, and
a piece of butter about the size of a small mar
ble; 1 wineglass of Jamaica rum. Fill glass with
hot water; mix well.
           Hot Whisky Punch.
  (A hot whisky glass.) The juice of i/g lemon;
1 or 2 lumps of sugar, dissolved in 1 wineglass
of hot water; 2 wineglasses of Scotch or Irish
whisky; fill glass with boiling water and place
                        39
   THE     ART      OF   MIXING        THEM

on top a thin slice of lemon or a piece of the peel.
Some grate a little nutmeg on top. Always place
ice before the person, and allow a spoon to remain
in the drink, in order that the partaker of the
beverage can help himself to ice should the mix
ture be too hot for him.
               Humpty Dumpty.
  Fill large bar glass full of shaved ice; 1 heap
ing teaspoonful bar sugar; 1 whole egg, broken in;
Vi jigger Jamaica rum; % jigger brandy. Fill up
with milk; shake hard; strain into tall shell glass;
grate nutmeg on top and serve.
             Imperial Egg Nogg.
  (A large bar glass.) 1 tablespoon of sugar; 1
fresh egg;    glass of fine ice; 1 wineglass of
brandy; '/> wineglass of Jamaica rum; fill up
with rich "milk.    Shako thoroughly in an "egg
nogg" shaker and strain. Grate a little nutmeg
on top if desired. In hot Egg Nogg use hot milk
and omit the ice.
             Imperial Punch.
  (To make 1 quart.) 1 bottle claret; 1 bottle
soda water; 4 teaspoonfuls powdered sugar, dis
solved in a little of the soda; i/i teaspoonful
grated nutmeg; 1 liquor glass maraschino; about
Va pound ice; 3 slices cucumber rind. Put ail in
gredients in pitcher and mix well.
             Jamaica Rum Sour.
  (A large bar glass.) % glass of fine ice; %
tablespoon of sugar; 2 or 3 dashes of lemon juice;
   wineglass of seltzer; 1 wineglass of Jamaica
rum. Stir well, and strain into a sour -i-""-
dress with fruit.
                         40
    the art of mixing them

       "Jersey Lily" Pousse Cafe.
  (A pony glass.)   of chartreuse; y, of brandy
Pour brandy in carefully, so as not" to disturb
the chartreuse, and serve.

                Jersey Sour.
  (A small bar glass.) Take 1 large teaspoon of
powdered sugar, dissolve in a little water; 2
or 3 dashes of lemon juice; I wineglass of ap
plejack; fill the glass with ice. Shake up, and
strain into a claret glass. Ornament with berries
in season.

               John Collins Gin.
  (An extra large bar glass.) 1 tablespoon of
sugar; about 5 dashes of lemon juice; 1 wineglass
of gin; 5 or 6 small bits of ice; 1 bottle of plain
soda. Mix well, remove the ice.
               Kentucky Bunt.
  Fill large bar glass with cracked ice; 1 jigger
Renedictine; 1 jigger creme de cocoa; V, jiHer
kuemmel. Shake well; strain into fancy stem
glass; twist piece lemon peel over the top and
serve.                                      ^
        King Edward High Ball.
  Drop 1 lump of ice into a high ball glass; 4
dashes lemon juice; 4 dashes pineapple svrup; v.
Jigger Sweet Catawha, Tokay or Angelica wine*
A Jigger Soteh whiskey. Fill up with seltzer or
•Apollinaris; stir and serve.

             Kirschwasser Punch.
  (A large bar glass.) % tablespoon of sugar*
2 or 3 dashes of lemon juice; 3 or 4 dashes of
chartreuse; l wineglass of kirschwasser; s/ Hoga
of fine ice. Dress with fruits; serve with a straw
                        41
   THE     ART    OF    MIXING       THEM

                 Knickebein.
  (A sherry glass.) ^ wineglass of vanilla cord
ial, 1 yolk of egg, which carefully cover with
benedictine;     wineglass kummel; 3 drops of
Angostura or Boker's bitters. The same rule is
here applied as in making Pousse Cafe, viz: Keep
colors separate and the different portions from
running into each other.
                Knickerbocker.
  (A large beer glass.) 2 tablespoons of rasp
berry syrup; juice of % a lemon, a slice of pine
apple and orange; 1 wineglass St. Croix rum; %
wineglass Curacoa; fill glass with fine ice. Stir
well, adding fruit in season, and imbibe through
a straw.

                Mamie Taylor.
  (Fizz glass.) 1 drink of rye whisky; 1 lump of
ice; fill up with ginger ale; dash with a little
port wine. Seltzer or vichy can be used.
               Manhattan Cooler.
  Use large glass with cracked ice; the juice of
two limes; one teaspoonful of powdered sugar;
one wine glass of claret; one dash of St. Croix
rum. Mix well and add Apollinaris.
               Maraschino Punch.
  (Use large bar glass.) 1 teaspoonful of pow
dered sugar, dissolved in a little water; 1 wme-
glass of brandy; 3 dashes of arrack; Vz pony
glass of'maraschino; the juice of Yg a small
lemon. Fill the tumbler with shaved ice, shake
well, ornament with fruit and berries in season,
and serve with a straw.
                       . 42
   THE ART          OF      MIXING     THEM

         Marchioness High Ball.
  Drop 1 lump of ice into a high ball glass; 4
dashes lemon juice; 4 dashes pineapple syrup; %
jigger sweet Catawba, Tokay or Angelica wine;
% jigger brandy. Fill up with seltzer or Apol-
linaris; stir and serve.


            Medford Rum Punch.
  (A large bar glass.) Fill glass with fine ice;
% tablespoon of sugar; 2 or 3 dashes of lemon
juice;      glasses of Medford rum; 1 dash of
Jamaica rum.      Stir well.    Dress with fruits.
Serve with a straw.


           Medford Rum Smash.
  (A large bar glass.) i/g tablespoon of sugar,
dissolve in a little water; 2 or 3 sprigs of mint,
pressed to extract the essence;      glass of fine
ice; 1 wineglass of Medford rum. Stir well;
strain; dress with fruit, replacing mint leaves
upward.

            Medford Rum Sour.
  (A large bar glass.) % tablespoon of sugar;
3 or 4 dashes of lemon juice; 1 dash of seltzer
Irom syphon; 1 wineglass Medford rum; fill glass
half full with ice. Strain and dress with fruits
              Milk and Seltzer.
 (A medium sized bar glass.) In serving this
drink, half fill the glass with seltzer, and the
rest with milk; if it is done otherwise you will
have nothing but foam in your glass.
                           43
   THE AKT OF           MIXING        THEM

                 Milk Punch.
  (A large bar glass.) yi glass of fine ice; %
tablespoon of sugar; 1 wineglass of brandy; 1
wineglass of St. Croix rum; Vz wineglass of
Jamaica rum; fill up with fresh milk. Mix well
together, strain, and serve with a little nutmeg
on top.

                  Milk Shake.
   Fill mixing glass full fine ice; 1 tablespoon-
ful of sugar; 1 egg. Fill glass with milk, shake
well and strain into lemonade glass, grate a lit
tle nutmeg on top and serve.

                  Mint Julep.
   (A large bar glass.) 1 tablespoon of sugar,
dissolve in Vs wineglass of water; 3 or 4 sprigs
of mint, which you press well in the sugar and
water to extract the flavor, then add IVz wine
glasses of brandy, after which withdraw the mint
and stir the ingredients well; then fill glass with
fine ice and insert the mint again, stems down
ward, leaves above. Dress tastily with fruits in
season. Give a dash of Jamaica rum, a sprinkle
of white sugar, and serve with a straw placed
across top of glass.

                 Missippi Punch.
    (A large bar glass.) 1 tablespoon of sugar,
.dissolved in % wineglass of water; 2 or 8 dashes
 of lemon juice;     wineglass of Bourbon whisky;
 i/o wineglass of Jamaica rum; 1 wineglass of
 brandy; fill goblet with fine ice. Dress top with
pieces of orange, pineapple, etc.
                        44
   THE ART OF             MIXING         THEM

                   Mint Sloe.
  (Take a fancy highball glass.) Put in 3 or 4
sprigs of mint; 1 lump of ice; 1 dash of Curacoa;
1 jigger sloe gin. Stir up with a spoon and fill
with club soda.

                  Monte Cristo.
  (Use medium bar glass with shaved ice.) 1
jigger imported dry sherry; 1 teaspoonful sugar;
Vs. pony brandy; 1 egg. Shake well and serve in
a long glass such as is used for highballs.
                  Morning Call.
  Fill tall shell glass % full shaved ice; % jigger
Maraschino; i/g jigger absinthe; V2 jigger lime or
lemon juice. Fill up with seltzer. Stir; orna
ment with fruit and serve with straws.

             Morning Glory Fizz.
   (A large bar glass.) Fill the glass % full of
fine ice; mix 3 or 4 dashes of absinthe in a little
water; 3 dashes of lime juice; 4 or 5 dashes of
lemon juice; 1 tablespoon of sugar, the white of
1 egg; 1 wineglass of Scotch whisky. Shake
well in a shaker and strain; fill balance of glass
with seltzer or vichy water. To be drank imme
diately, or the effect will be lost. It is a morning
beverage, a tonic and a nerve quieter.
    Moselle Cup (for a party of 10).
  For nljxing use a small size punch bowl or other
suitable Vessel of glass or porcelain lined. Fill
mixing vessel ^ full cracked ice. 12 lumps cut
loaf sugar; 2 small lemons, sliced; 2 small oranges
sliced; 6 slices pineapple; 2 ponies Curacoa; 2
ponies Chartreuse (green); 2 ponies brandy; 1
                        45
   THE AKT OF MIXING THEM

quart Apollinaris; 2 quarts Moselle. Stir well
with ladle; drop in a piece of cucumber skin,
sliced thin; dress with fruit, including a slice of
grape fruit, and serve in champagne glasses.
                Mulled Claret.
  (A large bar glass or mug.) 3 or 4 lumps of
sugar; 2 dashes of lemon juice; 4 or 5 whole all-
apice, bruised; 2 whole cloves, bruised; tea
spoon of ground cinnamon; 2 wineglasses of
claret. Place all the above in a dish, let it come
to a boil, and boil 2 minutes, stirring all the
time, strain and pour into a large, hot glass;
grate a little nutmeg on top.
           Mulled Claret and Egg.
 (A large bar glass.) 1 tablespoon of sugar; 1
dash of lemon juice; 1/2 teaspoon of mixed spices;
IV2 wineglasses of claret. Boil the above in-
gredients together; then heat to a batter the
yolks of 2 eggs with a little sugar added; pour
the hot wine over the eggs, stirring continually;
grate a little nutmeg on top. You must positively
pour the wine over the eggs, not otherwise, as it
would spoil.
          Napoleon Pousse Cafe.
  Fill a pousse cafe glass in equal proportions
with- raspberry syrup, Maraschino, orqnge syrup,
Curacoa, yellow Chartreuse, green Chartreuse,
brandy. Then proceed as for Abricotine Pousse
Cafe.'
               Naughty NeUie.
  Use wine glass. Pour each cordial separately
and he careful that they do not mix. Use Apri-
cotine, Creme Yvette, Creme de Menthe, Prunella
                        46
    THE ART OP            MIXING       THEM

in equal proportions, in order named. Place a
little whipped cream on top.
             New Orleans Fizz.
  Use mixing glass half full of ice; add one tea
spoon of sugar; juice of half a lemon; one tea
spoon of Orange Flower Water; one wine glass of
gin; half the white of an egg; two tablespoons
of milk. Shake well; strain into tall glass; fill
with Apollinaris.

              Orchard Punch.
  (A large bar glass.) 2 tablespoons of orchard
syrup; 2 or 3 dashes of lime or lemon juice; %
pony pineapple syrup; fill glass with fine ice; 1
wineglass of California brandy. Stir well. Dress
with fruits, dash with a little port wine and
serve with a straw.

             Orgeat Lemonade.
  One-half tablespoon of sugar; 4 or 5 dashes of
lemon juice;       wineglasses of orgeat; % glass
of fine ice; fill up glass with water. Stir well;
dress with fruit and serve with a straw.
               Orgeat Punch.
  (A large bar glass.) 1% tablespoons of or
geat syrup; ly^ wineglasses of brandy; 4 or 5
dashes of lemon; fill glass with fine ice. Shake
well. Dress with fruits; top off with a dash
of port wine. Serve with a straw.
                Oxford Punch.
  toe pint of Cognac brandy; 1 pint of old Ja
maica rum; 1 quart of orange shrub; % pint of
sherry; 1 bottle of capillaire; 2 quarts of boiling
water; 6 glasses of calf's-foot jelly; 6 lemons:
                        47
   THE ART OF           MIXING THEM

4 sweet oranges; suflScient loaf sugar, dissolved
in some of the hot water. Rub the rinds of 3
lemons with sugar; cut the peel very fine off
2 more lemons and 2 of the oranges; press out
the juice of all the oranges and lemons. Place
the whole with the jelly in a jug and stir well.
Pour on the water, and let it stand for 20 min
utes. Strain through a fine sieve into a large
bowl; add the capillaire, spirits, shrub and wine,
stirring well.
                 Panama Cooler.
  (A large goblet.)   full cracked ice; juice of
Yz orange; 2 dashes lime juice; 1 jigger rhine
wine; 1 jigger sherry; Yz harspoonful sugar; 3
or 4 dashes maraschino. Stir well and fill the
balance of glass with ice; decorate with fruit
and serve with straw.

       Parisian Pousse Cafe, No. 1.
  (A sherry glass.) 5 drops of raspberry syrup;
14 of the glass maraschino; Yi. of the glass Cura-
coa; Yi of the glass chartreuse; % of the glass
brandy. Keep the colors separate and serve with
out mixing.

       Parisian Pousse Cafe, No. 2.
  One-half glass of maraschino;     kir^chwasser;
y chartreuse; brandy on top.

              Philadelphia Punch.
  Fill a large bar glass with shaved ice; 2 tea-
spoonfuls bar sugar; 2 dashes lemon juice; 1 jig
ger St. Croix rum; 1 pony old brandy. Stir well;
dress with fruit and serve with straws.
                        48
   THE        ART   OF   MIXING        THEM

               Pineapple Julep.
  (For a party of five.) The juice of 2 oranges;
1 gill of raspberry syrup; 1 gill of maraschino;
1 gill of Old Tom gin; 1 quart bottle sparkling
Moselle; 1 ripe pineapple, peeled and sliced small
and cut up. Put all the materials in a glass
bowl; ice, and serve in cocktail glasses orna
mented with berries in season.

               Pineapple Punch.
  (For a party of 20.) Take 8 bottles of cham
pagne; 2 pints of Jamaica rum; 2 pints of brandy;
2 gills of Curacoa; juice of 6 lemons; 4 pineapples,
sliced. Sweeten to taste with pulverized white
sugar.
               Plymouth Punch.
  Crush a piece of lemon peel in a toddy tumbler
with muddler; 1 heaping teaspoonful bar sugar;
Yi jigger Sloe gin; ^ jigger whiskey. Stir well;
strain into cocktail glass; drop in of a peach;
top off with New England rum and serve.

               Porter Sangaree.
  (Large bar glass.) % tablespoon of sugar;
3 or 4 lumps of ice; fill up with porter. Stir well;
remove the ice; grate a little nutmeg on top.
              Port Wine Cobbler.
  (A large bar glass.)    Vz tablespoon of sugar;
1 pony of orchard syrup; fill glass with fine ice;
    wineglass of port wine. Stir well; dress
with fruit.
                Port Wine Flip.
  (A large bar glass.) 1 egg; 1 tablespoon of
sugar; % glass of fine ice; 1 wineglass of port
                         49
   THE       ART   OF    MIXING       THEM

wine. Use a shaker in mixing. Strain into a
wineglass. Grate a little nutmeg on top.
              Port Wine Negus.
  (A small bar glass.) 1 teaspoon of sugar; 1
wineglass of port wine; fill glass   full of hot
water; grate a little nutmeg on top.
              Port Wine Punch.
  (A large bar glass.) V2 tablespoon of sugar;
% tablespoon of orchard syrup; 1 or 3 dashes of
lemon juice; 1)4 wineglasses of port wine; fill up
with fine ice. Stir well and dress top with fruits
in season.   Serve with a straw.

           Port Wine Sangaree.
  (A small bar glass.) 1 or 2 lumps of ice; 1
teaspoon of sugar; 1)4 wineglasses of port wine.
Shake well, remove ice; grate a little nutmeg on
top.
           Pousse Cafe, French.
  (A sherry glass.) % glass of maraschino; ^
glass of raspberry syrup; 14 glass of vanilla;
    glass of Curacoa; 14        of chartreuse;
   glass of brandy. In compounding the above,
use a small wineglass for pouring in each article
separately; be very careful in doing so, that each
article may be separate. Serve without mixing.

               Pousse TAmour.
  ■ (Use sherry wineglass.) This is similar to
the more familiar pousse cafe, and has to be as
carefully made. % sherry glass of sherry; yolk
of fresh egg (drop in); )4 glass green vanilla;
)4 glass Cognac. The yolk of the egg must be
cold.
                        60
   THE     ART     OF   MIXING        THEM


           Prince Henry Punch.
  Use a mixing glass with cracked ice; juice of
one lime, leaving lime in glass; two dashes of
raspberry syrup; one wine glass of Kirschwasser;
half a wine glass of brandy. Shake well and
strain into a large glass. Fill with Apollinaris
and ornament with fruit.

           Punch a la Romaine.
  (For a party of 20.) 2 bottles of rum; 2 bot
tles of wine; 15 lemons; 3 sweet oranges; 3
pounds of powdered sugar; 15 eggs. Dissolve the
sugar in the juice of the lemons and oranges,
adding the thin rind of 1 orange; strain through
a sieve into a bowl, and add "by degrees the
whites of the eggs beaten to a froth. Place
the bowl on ice for a while, then stir in briskly
the rum and the wine.

               Remson Cooler.
  Use a large glass; one large cube of ice; rind of
whole lemon in one long string; one half wine
glass of Old Tom gin. Fill glass with Apollinaris.
            Rhine Wine Cobbler.
  (A large bar glass.) ly^ tablespoons of sugar;
IVz wineglasses of water;         wineglasses of
Rhine wine;; fill glass with fine ice; stir well;
ornament with fruits and serve with a straw.

         Rhine Wine and Seltzer.
  (A large bar glass.) Fill glass half full of
Rhine wine, balance with seltzer. Both the Rhine
wine and seltzer should be kept on ice. The above
                        51
   THE       ART    OF    MIXING       THEM


is a favorite drink among the Germans, who pre
fer it to lemonade.

             Rocky Mountain Cooler.
  One egg beaten up; % tablespoon of powdered
sugar; juice of 1 small lemon; add cider. Stir
well; grate a little nutmeg on top if desired.
                 Roman Punch.
  (A large bar glass.) Half fill glass with fine
ice; 1 tablespoon of sugar; 2 or 3 dashes of lemon
juice; juice of % an orange; V4 pony of Curacoa;
Yz wineglass of brandy; % pony of Jamaica rum.
Stir well.    Dash with port wine.     Dress with
fruit.   Serve with a straw.

                   Rum Daisy.
  Is prepared in the same manner as Brandy
Daisy, substituting rum for brandy.

             Santa Cruz Rum Daisy.
  (A small bar glass.) 3 or 4 dashes of gum
syrup; 2 or 3 dashes of Curacoa-; the juice of
Ys a lemon; 1 wineglass of Santa Cruz rmn; fill
glass     full of shaved ice. Shake thoroughly,
strain into a large cocktail glass and fill up with
seltzer water.


           Santa Cruz Rum Punch.
  (Use large bar glass.) 1 tablespoonful pow-
dfered white sugar, dissolved in a little water; 1
wineglass Santa Cruz rum; Vi wineglass Jamaica
rum; 2 or 3 dashes lemon juice; 1 slice of orange
(cut in quarters). Fill the tumbler with shaved
ice, shake well, and dress the top with sliced lime
and berries in season. Serve with a straw.

                         52
   THE     ART      OF    MIXING        THEM


            Santa Cruz Sour.
  (A small bar glass.) l large teaspoonful of
white sugar, dissolved in a little Apollinaris water;
3 dashes of lemon juice; 1 wineglass of Santa
Cruz rum; fill the glass full of shaved ice. Shake
up and strain into a claret wineglass, ornament
with orange and berries in season.

Saratoga or Sea Breeze Egg Lemonade.
  (A large b.ar glass.) 1 egg; 1 tablespoon of
sugar; 1/2 the juice of a lemon; fill % of the glass
with fine ice; balance with water. Use the shaker
until well mixed; strain, grate a little nutmeg
on top.
               Sauteme Punch.
  Is composed of the same ingredients as claret
punch, but substituting Sauterne wine for the
claret.
            Scotch Whisky Skin.
  (A small whisky glass.) 1 wineglass of Scotch
whisky; fill glass half full with hot water; put
a piece of lemon peel on top.

                 Shandy Gaff.
  (A large bar glass.)    Half the glass fill with
lager; half the glass fill with ginger ale. It is
also made with half ale and half ginger ale.
               Sherry and Egg.
  (A whisky glass.) 1 egg, ice cold; 1 wineglass
sherry wine. Before dropping in the egg, cover
the bottom of the glass with a little sherry; this
will prevent the egg adhering to the glass; or,
after preparing the egg as above set the bottle
                         53
   THE      ART      OF    MIXING        THEM


of sherry before the person and allow him to help
himself.
                 Sherry Cobbler.
    (A large bar glass.) 1 tablespoon of sugar;
2 or 3 slices of orange; fill glass with fine ice, then
fill up with sherry; shake well and dress top with
fruit tastily. Serve with a straw.

           Sherry Egg Nogg, No. 1.
   One-half tablespoon of sugar, 1 egg; 1 pony of
brandy; 1 wineglass of sherry; fill up with fine
ice. Shake well. Strain into a fancy bar glass.
Serve with nutmeg on top.

           Sherry Egg Nogg, No. 2.
  (A large bar glass.) 1 tablespoon of sugar; 1
egg; 2 wineglasses of sherry, % glass of fine ice.
Fill with milk. Shake thoroughly; nutmeg on top.
                   Sherry Flip.
  (A large bar glass.)    glass of fine ice; 1
6gg; % tablespoon of sugar, ly^ wineglasses
sherry. Shake well. Strain into a fancy glass
with nutmeg on top.
             Sherry Wine Punch.
  (A large bar glass.)      Fill glass with fine iee;
2 wineglasses of sherry; 1 tablespoon of sugar;
2 or 3 dashes of lemon juice. Stir well. Dress
with fruit and top off with a little claret. Serve
.with a straw.

            Sherry Wine Sangaree.
  (A whisky glass.) 1 teaspoon of sugar; 1 or
2 lumps of ice; 1 wineglass of sherry. Shake
well; remove ice; grate a little nutmeg on top.
                          54
   THE       ART    OF    MIXING       THEM


                   Silver Fizz.
  (A large bar glass.) % tablespoon of sugar;
3 or 4 dashes of lemon juice; 1 wineglass of Old
Tom gin; the white only of an egg; fill with ice.
Shake up well; strain into a fizz glass. Fill the
glass with seltzer from a syphon and drink im
mediately.
                  Sloe Gin Fizz.
  Fill large bar glass % full shaved ice; 3 heaping
teaspoonfuls bar sugar; 4 dashes lemon juice; 1
jigger Sloe gin. Shake well; strain into fizz glass;
fill up with seltzer or Apollinaris and serve im
mediately, as this drink should be taken while
effervescing.

                  Soda Nectar.
  (A large bar glass.) The juice of 1 lemon;
% glass of seltzer water; white sugar to taste;
% a small teaspoon of bicarbonate of soda. Mix
the lemon, water and sugar together thoroughly,
then put in the bicarbonate of soda, stir well, and
drink while it is foaming. This is a very pleasant
beverage for a morning drink, and a gentle purge
for the bowels.

               Soda Negus.
  (Use a small punch bowl, about 1 quart.) 1
pint of port wine; 12 lumps of loaf sugar; 8
cloves; grated nutmeg sufficient to fill a small
teaspoon; put the above ingredients into a thor
oughly clean saucepan warm and stir them well,
but do not suffer it to boil; upon the warm wine
empty a bottle of plain soda. This makes a
delicious and refreshing drink.
                         66
   THE     ART     OF    MIXING       THEM

      Southern Club Royal Gin Fizz.
  (Use large mixing glass       full shaved ice.)
Juice of 1/2 lemon or use from lemon squirt bot
tle same amount, use judgment; 1 ordinary sized
drink of gin, Gordon or domestic; sugar to taste;
1 whole egg; milk to suit; shake well, strain into
large fizz glass; add to above 2 squirts orange
flower water; squeeze orange peel in fizz glass and
leave peel in glass; fill up with Apollinaris. Stir
well and serve while foaming.
              St. Croix Crusta.
  (A large bar glass.) Prepare the rind of a
lemon as in a Brandy Crusta, etc.; 3 or 4 dashes
of orchard syrup; 1 dash of Angostura bitters;
1 dash of lemon juice; 2 dashes of maraschino; 1
wineglass of St. Croix rum;     giass of fine ice.
Star and strain into the wineglass. Dross with
bits of fruit, berries.
                 St. Croix Fix.
  (A large bar glass.) Fill glass with fine ice;
1/2 tablespoon of sugar; 1/2 wineglass of seltzer;
2 or 3 dashes of lemon juice; 1/2 pony of pine
apple syrup; 1 wineglass of St. Croix rum. Stir
well. Dress with fruit. Serve with a straw.
                St. Croix Sour.
  (A large bar glass.) 1/2 tablespoon of sugar,
dissolve in a little seltzer water; % of a lemon
squeezed into the glass; % glass of fine ice; 1
wineglass St. Croix rum. Stir well; strain into
a sour glass; dress with fruit in season.
               Telephone Fizz.
  (Use large bar glass.) Fill half full with fine
ice; 1 teaspoon sugar; 1 pony glass French
                        66
    THE     ART     OF    MIXING       THEM

 brandy; 1 pony maraschino; i raw egg. Siake
 well, strain in stem glass and fill with seltzer.
                 Toledo Punch.
  (Use a large bowl.) Place 21/2 pounds of loaf
sugar in the bowl; 5 or 6 bottles of plain soda;
4 lemons, the juice only; 1 quart of Cognac
brandy; 1 small bunch of wintergreen; 4 oranges
and 1 pineapple (cut up), and add the slices into
the bowl and also strawberries and grapes. Mix
the ingredients well with a ladle and add 6
bottles of champagne.
                 Tom Collins.
  (Use extra large bar glass.) % tablespoonful
sugar; 3 or 4 dashes lime juice; 3 or 4 pieces
broken ice; 1 wineglass Old Tom gin; 1 bottle
plain soda. Mix well with a spoon, strain and
serve. Attention must be paid not to let the
foam of the soda spread over the glass.
              Tom and Jerry.
  Fill a Tom and Jerry mug 'A full of batter; V,
Jigger brandy; % jigger rum. Fill up with hot
water, stirring well at the same time with a bar
spoon; grate nutmeg on top and serve.
  Another method is to pour the hot iiquid from
one mug to another until thoroughly mixed, and
then add the grated nutmeg and serve. (See "Tom
and Jerry—the basic mixture.")
TOM AND JERRY (the basic mixture).
  Separate the whites from the yolks of a given
number of eggs. Beat the yolks until they be-
come very thin and beat the whites to a stiff
froth. Then empty both into a Tom and Jerry
bowl and miv in sugar, very slowly, by stirring
                         57
   THE       ART   OF    MIXING       THEM

When the mixture acquires the consistency of a
stiff batter it is ready for use.
            Vermouth Frappe.
  (A large bar glass.) IVz pony of French ver
mouth, % glass of shaved ice; fill up with cold
seltzer water.

                 Victoria Sour.
  Fill large bar glass Yi shaved ice; 4 dashes
gum syrup; 1 teaspoonful pineapple syrup; 4
dashes lemon juice; 3 dashes Jamaica rum; 1 tea-
spoonful Abricotine; % jigger sherry wine; Yz
jigger whiskey. Stir; strain into fancy sour glass
containing fruit; dash with carbonated water;
top off with a little claret and serve.
               "Ward Eight"
  Take juice of one lemon, half a glass of whisky;
one tablespoonful of sugar; one tablespoonful of
Grenadine syrup; one glass of Apollinaris. Mix
the lemon, sugar and Grenadine syrup well;
then add the half glass of whisky and the one
glass of Apollinaris. Strain into a goblet with
ice fruit.
             Whisky Cobbler.
  (A large bar glass.) 2 wineglasses of whisky;
 Y2 tablespoon of sugar, dissolved well; lYz table
spoons of pineapple syrup; fill glass with fine
ice; stir well and dress with fruits. Serve with
a straw.
                 Whisky Crusta.
   (A large bar glass.) 3 or 4 dashes of gum
 eyrup; 1 or 2 dashes of Angostura bitters; 1 or
                          58
    THE     ART     OF     MIXING        THEM

2 dashes of lemon juice; 2 dashes of maraschino;
fill glass half full of fine ice; % ■wineglass
whisky. Mix the ingredients thoroughly. Take
a lemon the si e of a fancy cocktail glass, peel it
so as to have the rind in one piece fit it into
the cocktail glass. Moisten the edge of your glass
with lemon juice and dip the edge in powdered
sugar, then strain the mixture into your pre
pared glass.
                  Whisky      aisy.
   (A large bar glass.) % tablespoonful of sugar;
3 or 4 dashes of lemon juice; 1 dash of lime
juice; 1 pony of brandy, selt er, dissolve with the
lemon and lime juice; % glass of fine ice; 1
wineglass of good whisky; fill the glass with
shaved ice; % pony of chartreuse. Stir well,
then take a fancy glass, have it dressed with
fruit; strain.

                  Whisky Fix.
   (A large bar glass.)    % glass of fine ice; %
tablespoon of sugar, 2 or 3 dashes of lemon juice;
   pony of pineapple syrup; 1 wineglass of whisky.
Stir well and dress with fruit.       Serve with a
straw.

                Whisky Fi .
  One-half teaspoon of fine sugar; juice of %
a lemon; 1 or 2 dashes of the white of egg; 1
wineglass of whisky; % glass of fine ice. Shake
well; strain into a fi    glass; fill it with Apolli-
naris or vichy.
                Whisky Flip.
  Is prepared same as randy Flip, substituting
whisky for brandy.
   THE ART OF MIXING THEM

                Whisky Julep.
  (A large bar glass.) % tablespoon of sugar,
dissolve in Va wineglass water; 3 or 4 sprigs
of mint, press to extract the essence; 1 wineglass
whisky; a dash of Jamaica rum. Stir well with
spoon; arrange the mint with stems downward.
Dress with pineapple, oranges and berries, tastily;
some omit the fruit. Serve with straw.
               Whisky Punch.
   (Use large bar glass.) 1 tablespoonful pow
dered sugar, dissolved in a little water; juice of
1/2 small lemon, 1% wineglasses whisky. Fill
glass with shaved ice, shake well; dress with
lemon and berries, and serve with straws.
            Whisky Sling (cold)
  (A small bar glass.) 1 teaspoon of sugar, dis
solved in 1/3 wineglass of water; 1 or 2 small
lumps of ice; 1 wineglass of whisky. Stir well,
and grate nutmeg on top.
              Whisky Smash.
  (A large bar glass.) % tablespoon of sugar;
2 or 3 sprigs of mint, pressed to extract essence,
as in a julep; V2 glass of fine ice; 1 wineglass of
whisky. Stir well, strain into a fancy or sour
glass; dress with a little fruit, berries, etc.
                Whisky Sour.
  (A large bar glass). Fill glass with fine ice;
% tablespoon of sugar; 3 or 4 dashes of lemon
juice; V2 wineglass of seltzer water; 1 wineglass
of whisky. Stir well; strain into a sour glass;
dress with fruit.

                         60
   THE     ART     OF    MIXING       THEM

           69th Regiment Punch.
  (A hot whisky glass). 1/2 wineglass of Irish
whisky; Vz wineglass of Scotch whisky; 1 tea
spoon of sugar; 2 or 3 dashes of lemon juice; 2
wineglasses of hot water. The imbibition of the
above adds greatly to one's comfort on a cold
night.
            7th Regiment Punch.
  (A large bar glass.) 1 tablespoon of sugar; 2
or 3 dashes of lemon juice; 1 wineglass of brandy;
1 wineglass of Catawba wine. Flavor with rasp
berry syrup. Fill glass with fine ice; shake well;
dress with fruits; dash with Jamaica rum and
serve with a straw.




                        61
      THE        ART           OF      MIXING             THEM

                        INDEX
                               Page                                     Page
How to Keep and How to       Brandy and Gum ............. 17
  Serve Beera and Alea     6 Brandy and Soda......               17
When and How to Serve        Brandy, burned, and Peach 17
  Drinks           —     - 8 Cardinal Punch .................... 18
Abricotine Pousse Caf6..   9 Celery Sour                         18
Absinthe (American Style) 9 Champagne Cobbler ........... 18
Absinthe (French Style).... 9 Champagne Cup               18
Absinthe Frappe ....               9 Champagne Julep                       18
Admiral Schley High BalL. 9 Champagne Punch                                19
Ale PHp                           10 Champagne Sour             ......... 19
Ale Sangaree              ....... 10 Champagne Velvet ...                  19
American Beauty                   10   Chocolate Punch ................ 19
American Pousse Caf6              10 Cider Egg Nogg          ......    ... 19
Apollinaris Lemonade         10 Cider Punch ........................ 20
Applejack Sour       ....... 11 Claret and Champagne Cup 20
Arrack Punch                      11 Claret Cup for a Party...... 20
Auditorium CJooler .........      11   Claret Flip                    ..... 21
Baltimore Egg No^.                11   Claret Punch                        21
Beef Tea                       ... 11 Cocktail Absinthe ................ 21
Bicarbonate of Soda                12 Cocktail Amaranth ....             21
Bishop                            12 Cocktail Applejack ......             21
Blackthorn Sour                   12 Cocktail, Bamboo ................ 22
Blue Blazer                12 Cocktail, Bijou
Bonsoir ("Good Night").... 12 Cocktail, Blackthome                         22
Boston Egg Nogg.                  13 Cocktail, Brandy            II....... 22
Bowl of Egg Nogg for a               Cocktail, Fancy          Brandy,
  Party                           18     No. 1 ......                      22
Brace Up                    13 Cocktail, Fancy                Brandy,
Brace Up Saratoga           13   No, 2                                     23
Brandy Champerelle, No. 1.. 14 Cocktail, Bronx                        ...... 23
Brandy Champerelle, No 2.. 14 Cocktail, Buster Brown...... 23
Brandy Crusta                     14 Cocktail, Champagne ........ 23
Brandy Daisy                      14 Cocktail, Cincinnati            24
Brandy Fix                        15 Cocktail, Clover Club.......... 24
Brandy Fizz                       15 Cocktail, Coronation        24
Brandy Flip                       15 Cocktail, Du Barry....-     24
Brandy Float                      15 Cocktail, Dubonnet          24
Brandy Julep                      15 Cocktail, Dixie ...         24
Brandy Punch                      16 Cocktail, Gin               24
Brandy Sangaree                   16 Cocktail,  Irish            25
Brandy Scaffa                     16 Cocktail, Jersey            25
Brandy Shake                      16 Cocktail, Livingston        25
Brandy Shrub                      16 Cocktail, Lone Tree         25
Brandy Sling                      17 Cocktail, Manhattan Club
Brandy Smash                      17   Oyster                    25
Brandy Sour                       17 Cocktail, Manhattan, No. 1- 20
      the art of                       mixing them

                    IN DEX—Continued
                              Page                                  Page
Cocktail, Manhattan, No 2.. 26 Gin Daisy                                35
Cocktail, Martini            26 Gin Fix                                 86
Cocktail, Merry "Widow       26 Gin Fizz        ....................... 85
Cocktail, Mint               26 Gin Flip .............................. 85
Cocktail, Morning            20 Gin Julep         .................     86
Cocktail, Old-Faahioned .... 27 Gin Punch                          .... 85
Cocktail, Old Tom Gin        27 Gin Rickey .....                        36
Cocktail, Ping Pong          27 Gin Sling             ................ 36
Cocktail, Princeton          27 Gin Sma^                         ...... 86
Cocktail, Queen              28 Gin Sour             - .....            8ft
Cocktail, Racquet Club       28 Golden Fizz                             8ft
Cocktail, Rising Sun         28 Golden Slipper                          87
Cocktail, Rob Roy            28 Golf Links High Ball...... 37
Cocktail, Saratoga           28 Golf Links Punch-                       37
Cocktail, Sazerac            29 Grape Juice Highball.....               87
Cocktail, Sherry             29 Half-and-Half                           87
Cocktail, Soda                    29 Hari-Kari                           3ft
Cocktail, Southern         Club        High Ball .....          ........ 3ft
  Manhattan                       29 Hoffman House Pimch........ 38
Cocktail, Speedway                29 Horse's Neck                       88
Cocktail, Star                    30 Hot Arrack Punch                   38
Cocktail, Trilby                  30 Hot Gin Sling                      38
Cocktail, Tuxedo            SO Hot Irish Punch.................. 39
Cocktail, Vermouth, No. 1.. 30 Hot Milk Punch                    39
Cocktail, Vermouth, No 2.. 30 Hot Rum                      89
Cocktail, "Whiskey          30 Hot Scotch "V^iskey Sling.. 89
Cocktail, Widow*8 Dream.... 31 Hot Spiced Rum              39
Cocktail, Yale           31 Hot "V^iskey Punch........ 39
Cocktail, Zaza           31 Humpty Dumpty               40
Cohasset Punch           31 Imperial Egg Nogg—          40
Cosmopolitan Cooler      31 Imperial Punch     .....    40
Crimean Cup a La Marmora 32 Jamaica Rum Sour            40
Curacoa Punch            32 "Jersey Lily" Pousse Caf6.. 4
Currant Shrub                     32 Jersey Sour                        4
Dizzy Sour                        32   John Collins Gin                 4
Eagle's Dream                     33   Kentucky Bunt                    4
Eagle Fizz                        33 King Edward High BalL..... 4
Egg Milk Punch                    38 Kirschwasser Punch            4_
Egg Nogg (Plain)                  38 Knickebein                    42
Egg Sour                          33 Knickerbocker                 42
El Dorado Punch                   34 Mamie Taylor                  42
English Bishop                    34 Manhattan Cooler   .......... 42
Fedora       -                    34 Maraschnio Punch              42
Fish Club Punch (for a                 Marchioness High Ball         !! 43
  party of 8)                     34 Mcdford Rum Punch                  43
Frapped Caffi Royal               34 Medford Rum Smash                  43
                                   63
    THE         AET     OF        MIXING       THEM

                 IN DEX—Continued
                        Page                             Page
Medford Rum Sour           43 Santa Cruz Sour            58
Milk and Seltzer -         43 Saratoga or Sea Breeze Egg
Milk Punch                 44   Lemonade                 63
Milk Shake                 44 Sauteme Punch              53
Mint Julep                 44 Scotch ^Vhisky Skin..........^ 53
Mississippi Punch          44 Shandy Gaff                    53
Mint Sloe                  45 Sherry and Egg                53
Monte Crlsto               45 Sherry Cobbler                54
Morning Call               45 Sherry Egg Nogg, No 1         54
Morning Glory Fizz         45 Sherry Egg Nogg, No. 2        54
Moselle Cup                45 Sherry Flip                   54
Mulled Claret              46 Sherry Wine Punch             54
Mulled Claret and Egg      46 Sherry Wine Sangaree          54
Napoleon Pousse CafO       46 Silver Fizz                   55
Naughty Nellie             46 Sloe Gin Fizz                 55
New Orleans Fizz           47 Soda Nectar                   55
Orchard Punch              47 Soda Negus                    55
Orgeat Lemonade            47 Southern Club Royal Gin
Orgeat Punch               47   Fizz                        55
Oxford Punch               47 St. Croix Crusta              56
Panama Cooler              48 St. Croix Fix                 56
Parisian Pousse Caf(5, No. 1 48 St. Croix Sour              56
Parisian Pousse Caf6, No. 2 48 Telephone Fizz           56
Philadelphia Punch          48 Toledo Punch             57
Pineapple Julep             49 Tom Collins              67
Pineapple Punch             49 Tom and Jerry            57
Pljonouth Punch             49 Tom and Jerry (the basic
Porter Sangaree             49   mixture)               57
Port Wine Cobbler           49 Vermouth Frappee         58
Port Wine Flip              49 Victoria Sour            58
Port Wine Negus             50 "Ward Eight"             58
Port Wine Punch             50 AVhisky Cobbler          58
Port Wine Sangaree          50 Whisky Crusta            58
Pousse Caf6, French         50 Whisky  Daisy            69
Pousse 1'Amour             50 Whiskv Fix                    69
Prince Henry Punch          51 Whisky Fizz                  59
Punch h la Romaine          51 Whisky Flip                  59
Remson Cooler               51 Whisky Julep                 60
Rhine Whine Cobbler         51 Whisky Punch                 60
Rhine Wine and Seltzer      51 Whisky Sling (cold)          60 ;
Rocky Mountain Cooler...... 52 Whisky Smash                  60
Roman Punch                  52 Whisky Sour                  60
Rum Daisy                    52 R9th Regiment Punch          61
Santa Cruz Rum Daisy         52 7th Regiment Punch           61 i
Santa Cruz Rum Punch         52

                              64
              {     y
Home F-4388                            Sunset Main   26^


  German -American
  Wine Company ,
               W HAERING. Proprietor                  .'




              Ki)t ^ousie
              of (iSuaUtp

       WHOLESALE AND REI AIL



   FAMILY TRADE OUR SPECIALTY
                                                       ■:   le


314 West th St.,        OS ANGE ES. CAE
       N. . Prompt elivery Our Motto. We
        eliver A y Place in the City Free o(
       Charge. Any Place on Earth by Eipraai
