flDl&'€(me Kccfpe^ for

Home   iiatfe   Winm
«^j-5g5BMBt;^-5^MMt^lgf3Mt^r-5^;»«;S--5^



      mh-^mt Sfrtpfs for
«




^




         BOSTON * THE PAGE
         COMPANY * Publishers

    «^^^«NP^-2?i»*J^8^-2?;»^^^
         Copyright, 1909
   By Dana Estes & Company

        All rights reserved




        Made in U. S. A,




Second Impression, Jtdy, 1919
Tliird Impression, September, 1919
Fourtii Impression, January, 1922




PRINTED BY C. H. SIMONDS COMPANY
       BOSTON, MASS., U.S.A.
  I wish to acknowledge my
                           indebtedness to
               books  of reference: "The
the following
                     " The Cook," " The
Compleat Housewife,"
Dictionary of  Every-day Wants," "The
Household Cyclopedia," "The   Blue Grass
             " Two Hundred  Recipes from
Cook Book,"
French Cookery."
   #lti«Ctttte 3Klecipesi for

Momt iWatte Wint^
               INTRODUCTION
  The idea of compiling this little volume
occurred to  me while on a visit to some
friends at their summer home in a quaint
New England village. The little town had
once been a thriving seaport, but now con-
sisted   of   hardly more than a dozen old-
fashioned Colonial houses facing each other
along one broad, well-kept street.     Afew
blind lanes led to less     pretentious homes;
and still farther back farmhouses dotted the
landscape and broke the dead line of the
horizon.
   For peace, contentment, and quiet seren-
ity of life, this little village might have
been Arcadia; the surrounding country, the
land of Beulah.
  The ladies of the Great Houses, as the
                       11
          fl^omt iWatre Wiimu

villagers called the few Colonial mansions,
were invariably spinsters or widows of un-
certain years, the last descendants of a long
line of sea captains and prosperous mari-
ners,     to   whom   the heritage   of   these   old
homes, rich with their time-honored furnish-
ings and curios, served to keep           warm the
cockles of kindly hearts, which extended to
the stranger that traditional hospitality
which makes the whole world kin.
   The social customs of this Adamless Eden
were precise and formal. As with the dear
ladies of Cranford, a call was a very serious
affair, given and received with great gravity,
and had its time limit set with strict punc-
tuality.    Cake and wine were invariably
served as a preliminary warning toward
early departure.       Here came in my first ac-
quaintance with many varieties of home-made
wines, over whose wealth of color and deli-
cacy of flavor my eyes and palate longed to
linger.
  Vulgar curiosity made me bold to inquire
the names of a few; imagine my astonish-
ment when graciously told that the gay dan-
delion, the modest daisy, the blushing cur-
rant, had one and all contributed their nectar
to the joy of the occasion. Flattered by my
interest, my gentle hostess broke strict rules
of etiquette and invited me to linger, show-
                          12
        ?l|oiwt jaairt WLintn

ing me rare old gardens aglow with flowers,
fruits, and vegetables that in due time would
contribute to their store, and at parting
various time-worn recipes were urged upon
me, with verbal instructions and injunctions
upon the best methods of putting them to
test.
  From this beginning I ferreted out from
other sources recipes for many curious con-
coctions, the very name of which fills the
mind with fantasies and pictures of the long
ago. Do we not feel poignant sympathy for
the grief of the poor Widow of Malabar,
whose flow of tears has descended in spirit,
through three centuries, to those still faith-
ful to her memory?    Did we ever pause to
consider what a slaughter of the innocents
went to make famous many an old English
tavern whose Sign of the Cock made the
weary traveller pause and draw rein, and
call loudly for the stirrup cup of this home-
brewed ale? Can we not feel the ponderous
presence, and smell the strong tobacco from
the pipes of groups of stolid Dutchmen, of
the days of     Wouter Van Twiller, when we
read    of   that   one-time   favorite   beverage,
Schiedam Schnapps?     Again, are we not
back in that dull, but dehghtful, society of
the days of Colonel Newcome, when a quiet
game of bezique was interrupted by the tidy
                         IS
          I^otne JWalre Wiims

servant who brought in the refreshing Or-
geat and delicate seed cakes? Have not our
own grandmothers boasted         of the delicious
flavor of old English Cowslip wine or Nojean
Cordial?
  I have confined myself exclusively to home-
made                         my fruits and
          beverages, gathering
flowers from old-fashioned, homely gardens.
I leave to your imagination the times, fash-
ions, and customs they recall.  The aroma
that clings to them is subtle.     Age has
blended and mellowed all that was crude in
those bygone days.
   With a gentle hand I tie my little bunch
together and present you my bouquet.




                        W
     The best method of making these wines
is   to boil the ingredients,and ferment with
yeast. Boihng    makes  the wine more soft and
mellow.   Some,   however,  mix  the juice, or
juice and  fruit,  with  sugar  and water un-
boiled,   and leave the ingredients to ferment
spontaneously.       Your fruit should always be
prime, and gathered dry, and picked clean
from stalks, etc. The lees of wine are valu-
able    for   distillation,   or   making vinegar.
When wine is put        in the cask the   fermenta-
tion will be renewed.         Clear away the yeast
as   it rises,   and fill up with wine, for which
purpose a small quantity should be reserved.
If brandy is to be added, it must be when
the fermentation has nearly subsided, that
is, when no more yeast is thrown up at the

bung-hole, and when the hissing noise is not
very perceptible; then mix a quart of
brandy with a pound of honey, pour into
the cask, and paste stiff brown paper over
                                                       ;




         ^omt JWatrt WiUxm
the bung-hole.      Allow no hole for a vent peg,
lest it should once be forgotten, and the whole
cask of wine be spoiled. If the wine wants
vent it will be sure to burst the paper; if

not the paper will sufficiently exclude the
air.    Once a week or so it may be looked to
if   the paper is burst, renew it, and continue
to do so until it remains clear       and dry.
     A great difference of opinion prevails as
to racking the wine, or suffering           it   to re-
main on the lees. Those who adopt the for-
mer plan do it at the end of six months
draw off the wine perfectly clear, and put
it   into a fresh cask, in which    it is   to remain
six months, and then be bottled.        If this plan
is   adopted, it may be better, instead of put-
ting the brandy and honey in the first cask,
to put it in that in which the wine is to be
racked   ;   but on the whole, it is, perhaps, pref-
erable to leave the wine a year in the             first

cask, and then bottle it at once.
   All British wines improve in the cask more
than in the bottle. Have very nice clear and
dry bottles ; do not fill them too high. Good
soft corks, made supple by soaking in a lit-
tle of the wine; press them in, but do not
knock.       Keep the bottles lying in sawdust.
This plan will apply equally well to raspber-
ries,   cherries,   mulberries, and   all    kinds of
ripe summer fruits.
                           16
         f^onte JWaire WLintu

         COLORING FOR WINES
     One pound of white sugar.          Put into an
iron kettle, let boil, and burn to a red black,
and thick; remove from the fire, and add a
little hot water, to keep it from hardening

as it cools;   then bottle for use.


          FINING OR CLEARING
     For fining or clearing the wine use one
quarter pound of isinglass, dissolved in a
portion of the wine, to a barrel. This must
be put in after the fermentation is over, and
should be added gently at the bung-hole, and
managed so as to spread as much as possible
over the upper surface of the liquid;               the
intention   being     that    the   isinglass    should
unite with impurities and carry them with
it   to the bottom.


            TO FLAVOR WINE
     When   the vinous       fermentation   is   about
half-over, the flavoring ingredients are to be
put into the vat and well stirred into the
contents.   If almonds form a component
part, they are first to be beaten to a paste
and mixed with a pint or two of the must.
Nutmegs, cinnamon, ginger, seeds, etc.,
should, before they are put into the vat, be
                         17
          ^omt i^atiir Wiinm
reduced to powder, and mixed with some of
the must.

                TO MELLOW WINE
   Wine, either in bottle or wood, will mel-
low     much quicker when only covered with
pieces     of    bladder well secured, than with
corks or bungs.          The bladder allows the wat-
ery particles to escape, but is impervious to
alcohol.


TO REMOVE THE TASTE OF THE
      CASK FROM WINE
   Finest       oil   of olives, one pound.           Put     it

into the hogshead,            bung     close,   and   roll    it

about, or otherwise well agitate it, for three
or four hours, then gib, and allow                     it    to
settle.     The       olive   oil   will   gradually        rise
to the top and carry the ill flavor with it.


TO REMOVE ROPINESS FROM WINE
  Add a little catechu or a small quantity
of the bruised berries of the mountain ash.


TO RESTORE WINE WHEN SOUR
         OR SHARP
   1.   Fill    a bag with leek-seed, or of leaves
or twisters of vine, and put either of them
to infuse in the cask.
                               18
         fi^ome iWalre Wlintu

   2.   Put a small quantity of powdered char-
coal in the wine, shake    it, and after it has

remained    still   for fortv-eight hours, decant
steadily.


         TO MARE APPLE WINE
   To every gallon of apple juice, immedi-
ately as   it comes from the press, add two

pounds of common loaf sugar; boil it as
long as any scum rises, then strain it through
a sieve, and let it cool. Add some good yeast,
and stir it well. Let it work in the tub for
two or three weeks, or* till the head begins
to flatten ;   then skim off the head, drain       it

clear off and tun it. When made a year,
rack it off and fine it with isinglass   then  ;


add one-half pint of the best rectified spirit
of wine or a pint of French brandy to every
eight gallons.


               APRICOCK WINE
   Take three pounds     of sugar, and three
quarts of water;      them boil together and
                       let
skim it well.   Then put in six pounds of
apricocks, pared and stoned, and let them
boil until they arte tender; then take them
up and when the liquor is cold bottle it up.
You may if you please, after you have taken
out the apricocks,       let      the liquor have one
                             19
         ?i^oine J»a5e WLintu

boil with   a sprig of flowered clary in          it;
the apricocks make marmalade, and are very
good for preserves.

                  BALM WINE
     Take ten pounds of sugar, six quarts of
water, boil it gently for two hours       ;   skim it
well   and put    it   into a tub to cool. Take
three-quarters   pound of the tops of balm,
bruise them, and put them into a barrel with
a little new yeast, and when the liquor is
cold, pour it on the balm.      Stir it well to-
gether, and let it stand twenty-four hours,
stirring it often.   Then close it up and let
it stand six weeks.     Then rack it off and
put a lump of sugar into every bottle. Cork
it well, and it will be better the second year

than the first.


        TO MAKE BARLEY WINE
     Take one-half pound of French barley and
boil it in three waters,       and save three pints
of the last water, and mix it with one quart
of white wine, one-half pint of borage water,
as   much clary water, a little red rose-water,
the juice of five or six lemons, three-quarters
pound of fine sugar, the thin yellow rind of
a lemon. Brew all these quick together, run
it   through a strainer, and bottle it up.         It
                          20
          j^oMt JHaire WLinm
is   pleasant in hot weather, and very       good
in fevers.


TO MAKE BEER AND ALE FROM
                  PEA-SHELLS
     Fill a boiler with green shells of peas, pour
on water till it rises half an inch above the
shells, and simmer for three hours.    Strain
off the liquor,    and add a strong decoction
of wood-sage, or hops, so as to render           it

pleasantly bitter;      ferment with yeast, and
bottle.

                 BIRCH WINE
     The liquor of the birch-tree is to be ob-
tained in the month of March, when the sap
begins to ascend.       One foot from the ground
bore a hole in each tree, large enough to
admit a faucet, and set a vessel under; the
liquor will run for two or three days without
hurting the     tree.   Having obtained a suffi-
cient quantity, stop the holes with pegs.        To
each gallon of the liquor add one quart of
honey, or two and one-half pounds of sugar.
Boil together one hour, stirring      it well.   A
few cloves may be added for flavor, or the
rind of a lemon or two; and by all means
one ounce of hops to four and one-half gal-
lons of wine.
     Work it with yeast, tun, and refine with
                          21
              ^omt SM^^t Seines
isinglass.        Two months after making, it may
be drawn off and bottled, and in two months
more will be fit for use, but will improve by
keeping.


                BLACKBERRY WINE
     Bruise the berries well with the hands.               To
one gallon of fruit, add one-half gallon of
water, and         let   stand overnight.     Strain and
measure, and to each gallon of juice add
two and one-half pounds of sugar.             Put in
cask and let ferment.           Tack thin muslin over
top, and when fermentation stops, pour into
jugs or kegs.            Wine keeps best in kegs.

                 BLACKBERRY WINE
              (other methods of making)
     1.      Having procured berries that are fully
ripe, put them into a tub or pan with a tap
to     it,   and pour upon them as much boiling
water as will just cover them. As soon as
the heat will permit the hand to be put into
the vessel, bruise them well          till   all    the ber-
ries are broken.          Then let them stand covered
tillthe berries begin to rise toward the top,
which they usually do in three or four days.
Then draw off the clear liquor into another
vessel, and add to every ten quarts of this
liquor four        pounds of sugar.          Stir    it   well,
                               22
                                                         ;




            I^omt iWatie Wiintu
and let it stand to work a week or ten days
then filter it through a flannel jelly-bag into
a cask.   Take now four ounces of isinglass
and lay it to steep for twelve hours in one
pint of blackberry juice. The next morning
boil it over a slow fire for one-half hour with
one quart or three pints more juice, and
pour it into the cask. When cool, rouse it
well, and leave it to settle for a few days,
then rack it off into a clean cask, and bung
it   down.
     2.    The following is said to be an excellent
recipe       for    the manufacture of a          superior
wine from blackberries   Measure your ber-
                                      :




ries, and bruise them; to every gallon, add

one quart of boiling water.                Let the mixture
stand twenty-four hours, stirring occasion-
ally ;     then strain off the liquor into a cask,
to every gallon adding two pounds of sugar.
Cork tight and let stand till the following
October, and you will have wine ready for
use, without any further straining or boiling,
that will          make   lips   smack, as they never
smacked under similar influence before.
   3. Gather when ripe, on a dry day.   Put
into a vessel, with the head out, and a tap
fitted near the bottom; pour on them boil-
ing water to cover them.                  Mash the berries
with your hands, and let them stand covered
till      the pulp rises to the top and forms a
                                 23
          ^OMt Jg^atre               Wiimu
crust, in three or four days.              Then draw
off the fluid into another vessel,        and to every
gallon add one pound of sugcir.              Mix well,
and put                 work for a week
             into a cask, to
or ten days, and throw off any remaining
lees,   keeping the cask well filled, particularly
at    the commencement.          When the working
has ceased, bung it down         ;   after six to twelve
months,     it    may be bottled.

           FINE BRANDY SHRUB
     Take one ounce of citric acid, one pint of
porter, one and one-half pints of raisin wine,
one     gill of   orange-flower water, one gallon
of good brandy, two and one-quarter quarts
of water.         First, dissolve the citric acid in
the water, then add to it the brandy;             next,
mix the      raisin    wine,  and orange-
                               porter,
flower water together; and lastly, mix the
whole, and in a week or ten days it will be
ready for drinking and of a very mellow
flavor.



          AMERICAN CHAMPAGNE
     Seven quarts good cider (crab-apple cider
is the best), one pint best fourth-proof
brandy, one quart genuine champagne wine,
one quart milk, one-half ounce of bitartrate
of potassa.        Mix and let stand a short time;
                            24
                                                ;




          ^omt JMaire Wiinm
bottle while fermenting.    An excellent imi-
tation.

             CHAMPAGNE CUP
  To two ounces of powdered loaf sugar, put
the juice and rind of one lemon pared thin
pour over these a large glass of dry sherry,
and let it stand for an hour    ;   then add one
bottle of sparkling champagne and one bot-
tle of soda water, a thin slice of fresh
                                         cucum-
ber with the rind on, a sprig of borage or
balm, and pour on blocks of clear ice.


           BRITISH CHAMPAGNE
   To every five pounds of rhubarb, when
sliced    and bruised, put one gallon of cold
spring water.   Let it stand three days, stir-
ring two or three times every day then press
                                      ;



and strain it through a sieve, and to every
gallon of liquor, put three and one-half
pounds of loaf sugar. Stir it well, and when
melted, barrel it.  When it has done work-
ing, bung it up close, first suspending
                                             a
muslin bag with isinglass from the bung into
the barrel. To eight gallons of liquor, put
two ounces of isinglass. In six months bottle
it and wire the bottles;  let them stand up

 for the first month, then lay four or five
 down lengthways for a week, and if none
 burst, all may be laid down.       Should a large
                       25
             Wmu JM^Jrir Wiimn
quantity be made, it must remain longer in
cask.  It may be colored pink by putting
in a quart of raspberry juice. It will keep
for    many years.


             BURGUNDY CHAMPAGNE
  Fourteen pounds loaf sugar, twelve pounds
brown sugar (pale), ten gallons warm water,
one ounce white tartar.     Mix, and at a
proper temperature add one pint yeast.
Afterwards, add one gallon sweet cider, two
or three bitter almonds (bruised), one quart
pale spirit, one-eighth ounce orris powder.



               CHAMPAGNE CIDER
      Champagne cider is made as follows: To
five    gallons of    good    cider    put three pints
of strained honey, or one and one-eighth
pounds of good white sugar. Stir well and
set    it    aside for a week.        Clarify the cider
with one-half          skimmed milk, or one
                    gill of

teaspoonful of dissolved isinglass, and add
one and one-half pints of pure spirits. After
two or three days bottle the clear cider, and
it    will   become sparkling.        In order to pro-
duce a slow fermentation, the casks contain-
ing the fermenting liquor must be bunged
up tight. It is a great object to retain
                              2^
         J^omt J«l35e WLinm
much of the carbonic gas in             the cider, so
as to develop itself after being bottled.


       CHAMPAGNE CIDER, NO.                    2
  One hogshead good pale vinous cider, three
gallons proof spirit (pale), fourteen pounds
honey or sugar.           Mix, and let them remain
together in a temperate situation for one
month; then add one quart orange-flower
water, and fine it down with one-half gallon
skimmed milk. This will be very pale; and
a similar article, when bottled in champagne
bottles, silvered and labelled, has been often
sold    to    the   ignorant for champagne.        It
opens very brisk,         if   managed properly.

TO MAKE ENGLISH CHAMPAGNE,
 OR THE FINE CURRANT WINE
      Take to three gallons of water nine pounds
of Lisbon sugar;          boil the   water and sugar
one-half hour, skim it clean.          Then have one
gallon of currants picked, but not bruised.
Pour the liquor boiling hot over them, and
when cold, work it with one-half pint of balm
two days; then pour it through a flannel
or sieve;       then put   it into a barrel fit for

it,    with    one-half   ounce of isinglass well
bruised.       When    it has done working, stop

it close for a month.           Then bottle it, and in
                               27
          ^omt JWatre Wiimu
every bottle put a very small lump of double
refined sugar.      This    is   excellent wine,    and
has a beautiful color.


             SHAM CHAMPAGNE
   One lemon sliced, one tablespoon tartaric
acid, one ounce of race-gin c;cr, one and one-
half pounds sugar, two and one-half gallons
of boiling water poured on the above.          When
blood warm, add one gill of distillery yeast,
or two gills of home-brewed.         Let it stand in
the sun through the day.             When cold, in
the evening, bottle, cork, and wire           it.    In
two days it is ready for use.

CHEAP AND AGREEABLE TABLE
          BEER
  Take four and one-half gallons of water
and  boil one half, putting the other into
a barrel; add the boiling water to the cold
with one quart of molasses and a little yeast.
Keep the bung-hole open until fermentation
ceases.

              CHERRY BOUNCE
  Four quarts of wild cherries stemmed and
well washed, four quarts of water.            (I put
mine   in   a big yellow bowl, and cover with
double      cheese-cloth,   and     set   behind    the
kitchen stove for two weeks.)             Skim every
                       28
         ^mm JHatft Wiimn
few days. Then strain, add three-quarters
pound sugar to each quart of liquid, and
let   ferment again.     This takes about two
weeks.   When it stops working, add rum,      —
about two bottles full for this quantity.    (It
isgood without any rum.)


         CHERRY BOUNCE, NO. 2
     One quart   of   rum to one quart   of wild
cherries, and three-quarters pound of sugar.
i*ut into   a jug, and at first give it a fre-
quent shake.    Let it stand for several months
before you pour off and bottle.          A little
water put on to the cherries left in the jug
will make a pleasant and less ardent drink.




         CHERRY BOUNCE, NO. 3
   One gallon of good whiskey, one and one-
half pints of wild black cherries bruised so
as to break the stones, two ounces of common
almonds shelled, two ounces of white sugar,
one-half teaspoonful cinnamon, one-quarter
teaspoonful cloves, one-quarter teaspoonful
nutmeg, all bruised.   Let stand twelve to
thirteen days,    and di'aw off.   This, with the
addition of one-half gallon of brandy, makes
very nice cherry bounce.
                         29
        %omcr jMiatrt WLUxm
        TO MAKE CHERRY WINE
   Pull off the stalks of the cherries, and mash
them without breaking the stones then press
                                   ;



them hard through a hair bag, and to every
gallon of liquor, put two pounds of sugar.
The vessel must be full, and let it work as
long as it makes a noise in the vessel; then
stop it up close for a month or more, and
>vhen it is fine, draw it into dry bottles, and
put a lump of sugar into every bottle.
If it makes them fly, open them all for a
moment, and then stop them up again. It
will be fit to drink in a quarter of a year.



           CHERRY WINE, NO. 2
  Fifteen pounds of cherries, two pounds of
currants.  Bruise them together. Mix with
them two-thirds of the kernels, and put the
whole of the cherries, currants, and kernels
into a barrel, with one-quarter pound of
sugar to every pint of juice. The barrel
must be quite full. Cover the barrel with
vine leaves, and sand above them, and let it
stand until it has done working, which will
be in about three weeks  then stop it with
                            ;



a bung, and in two months' time it may be
bottled.
   2.Gather the cherries when quite ripe.
Pull them from their stalks, and press them
                       30
         IS^omt JWaire WLinm

through a hair sieve. To every gallon of
the liquor add two pounds of lump sugar
finely beaten  stir all together, and put
                  ;



it   into a vessel that will just hold it.       When
it   has done fermenting, stop        it   very close
for three months, and then bottle          it   off   for
use.



     GENERAL RULES FOR MAKING
                         CIDER
  Always choose perfectly ripe and sound
fruit.  Pick the apples by hand. (An active
boy with the bag slung over his shoulder will
soon clear a tree. Apples that have lain any
time on the soil contract an earthy taste,
which will always be found in the cider.)
   After sweating, and before being ground,
wipe them dry, and if any are found bruised
or rotten, put them in a heap by themselves,
for an inferior cider to make vinegar.
  Always use hair cloths, instead of straw,
to place between the layers of pomace. The
straw when heated, gives a disagreeable taste
to the cider.
  As the cider runs from the press, let it
pass through a hair sieve into a large open
vessel that will hold as         much juice as can
be expressed in one day.         In a day, or some-
times    less,   the   pomace will rise to the top,
                            31
          I^ome M^^t WLinm
and in a short time grow very thick. When
little white bubbles break through it, draw
off the liquor by a spigot, placed about three
inches from the bottom, so that the lees may
be left quietly behind.
      The cider must be drawn            off   into very
clean, sweet casks and closely watched.             The
moment the white bubbles before mentioned
are perceived rising at the bung-hole, rack
it    again.   When the fermentation is com-
pletely at an end, fill up the cask with cider,
in all respects like that already contained in
it,   and bung it up tight, previous to which
a tumbler of sweet    oil may be poured into
the bung-hole.
      After being made and barrelled it should
be allowed to ferment until         it    acquires the
desired flavor,     for perfectly    sweet cider      is

not desirable.       In the meantime clean bar-
rels     for its   reception   should be prepared
thus:  Some clean strips of rag are dipped
into melted sulphur, lighted and hung in the
bung-hole, and the bung laid loosely on the
end of the rag. This is to allow the sulphur
vapor to well fill the barrel. Tie up a half-
pint of mustard-seed in a coarse muslin rag
and put it into the barrel, then put your
cider in.    Now add the isinglass, which
" fines " the cider but does not help to keep
it sweet.  This is the old-fashioned way, and
                          32
         I^otne Jdatre Wiimu

will keep cider in the same condition as it
went into the barrel, if kept in a cool place,
for a year.  The sulphur vapor checks the
fermentation, and the sulphur in the mus-
tard-seed keeps it checked.    We hear that
professional cider dealers are now using the
bisulphite of lime instead of the mustard-
seed   and the sulphur vapor.     This bisul-
phite of lime is the same as the " preserving
powder." It is only another form of using
the sulphur, but it is more convenient and
perhaps more effectual. Another method is
to add sugar, one and a half pounds sugar
to a gallon of the cider, and let it ferment.
This makes a fermented, clear, good cider,
but sweet. It lasts sweet about six months,
ifkept in a cool situation.
  Preparatory to bottling cider it should
be examined, to see whether it be clear and
sparkling.  If not, it should be clarified in
a similar way to beer, and left for a fort-
night.     The night before it is intended to
put it Into bottles, the bung should be taken
out of the cask, and left so until the next
day, when it may be bottled, but not corked
down until the day after, as, if this be done
at once,    many of the bottles will burst by
keeping.     The best corks and champagne
bottles should be used, and it is usual to wire
and cover the corks with tinfoil, after the
                       33
             ^o%m l^atre WLinm
manner of champagne.                  A few bottles may
be kept in a warm place to ripen, or a small
piece of      lump sugar may be put into each
bottle before corking, if the cider be wanted
for immediate use, or for consumption dur-
ing the cooler portion of the year, but for
warm weather and for long keeping this is
inadmissible. The bottled stock should be
stored in a          cool   cellar,   when the quality
will be      greatly improved by age.




                    TO CAN CIDER
   Cider,      if   taken when      first   made, brought
to the boiling heat, and canned, precisely as
fruit   is   canned, will keep from year to year
without any change of taste.     Canned up
this way in the fall, it may be kept a half-
dozen years or longer, as good as when first
made. It is better that the cider be settled
and poured off from the dregs, and when
brought to boiling heat the scum that gath-
ers on the surface taken off; but the only
precaution necessary to preservation of the
cider is the sealing of it air tight when
boiling hot.         The juice of other fruit can,
no doubt, be preserved in the same way. To
all tastes not already corrupted by strong

drinks, these unfermented juices are very
                               34
                                                               —

        ^omt jaatre amines
delicious.        The juice of the grape is better
than wine a century old, and more healthy.
Churches believing in literal eating and
drinking at the Lord's supper could in this
way avoid the poisonous fermented spirits
and drink the pure unfermented juice of the
grape, as was doubtless done by the primi-
tive   Christians.



                    BOILING CIDER
   To prepare           cider      for   boiling,   the    first

process      is   to filter   itimmediately on coming
from the press.               This is easiest done by
placing some sticks crosswise in the bottom
of a barrel,        —a        flour barrel with a single
iiead is the best,       — wherein an inch          hole has

been bored, and covering these sticks with
say four inches of clean rye or wheat straw,
and then filling the barrel to within a foot
 of the top with clean sand or coal dust,
 sand is the best. Pour the cider as it comes
 from the press into the top of this barrel,
draAving it off as soon as it comes out at the
bottom into air-tight casks, and let it stand
 in the cellar until March.               Then draw it out
 with as little exposure to the air as possible,
 put it into bottles that can be tightly and
 securely corked, and in two months                       it   wl15

 be fit for use.
                                   35
           I^otne JWaire WLinm

                 TO CLEAR CIDER
   To       clear   and improve          cider   generally
take two quarts of ground horseradish and
one pound of thick gray filtering paper to
the barrel, and either shake or stir until the
paper has separated into small shreds, and
let itstand for twenty-four hours, when the
cider may be drawn off by means of a siphon
or a stop cock.             Instead of paper, a prepa-
ration of wool may be taken, which is to be
had in the market, and which is preferable
to paper, as it has simply to be washed with
water, when it may be used again.



 CIDER, TO PRESERVE AND KEEP
                            SWEET
      1.   To   one barrel of cider, put in one
pound of mustard-seed, two pounds of rai-
sins, one-quarter pound of the sticks (bark)
of cinnamon.           2.   When the cider in the bar-
        a lively fermentation, add as much
rel is in
white sugar as will be equal to one-quarter
or three-quarters of a pound to each gallon
of cider (according as the apples are sweet
or sour) ;       let   the fermentation proceed un-
til    the liquid has the taste to suit, then add
one-quarter of an ounce of sulphite                   (not
sulphate)       of lime to each gallon of cider,
shake well, and let           it    stand three days, and
                                   36
       %oing MiJift WHnm
bottle for use.      The sulphite should first be
dissolved in a quart or so of cider before
introducing    it   into the barrel of cider.          S.
When fermentation commences in one barrel,
draw off the liquor into another one, strain-
ing through a flannel cloth.   Put into the
cider three-quarters of an ounce of the oil
of sassafras, and the same of the oil of win-
ter green, well shaken  up in a pint of alco-
hol.   But one difficulty is said to pertain to
this preparation of cider.           It is so palatable
that people won't keep         it   long.




          CIDER CHAMPAGNE
  Five gallons good cider, one quart spirit,
one and one-quarter pounds honey or sugar.
Mix, and let them rest for a fortnight, then
fine with one gill of skimmed milk.     This,
put up in champagne bottles, silvered, and
labelled, has often been sold for champagne.
It opens very sparkling.




               CHERRY CIDER
   Seven gallons of apple cider, two quarts
of dried black cherries, one pint of dried
blueberries,   one-half    pint       of    elderberries,
eighteen pounds of brown sugar.
                          37
         ^omt JWaife ^Minm
           DEVONSHIRE CIDER
     The apples, after being plucked, are left
in heaps in the orchard for some time, to
complete their ripening, and render them
more saccharine. They are then crushed
between grooved cylinders, surmounted by a
hopper, or in a circular trough, by two ver-
tical edge-wheels of wood moved by a horse;
after passing through which, they are re-
ceived into large tubs or crocks, and are then
called pomace.    They are afterwards laid
on the vat in alternate layers of the pomace
and clean straw, called reeds. They are then
pressed, a little water being occasionally
added.   The juice passes through a hair
sieve, or similar strainer,   and is received in
a large vessel, whence it is run into casks
or open vats, where everything held in
mechanical suspension is deposited. The fer-
mentation is often slow of being developed;
though the juice be set in November or De-
cember, the working sometimes hardly com-
mences till March. Till this time the cider
is sweet;   it now becomes pungent and vi-

nous, and is ready to be racked for use. If
the fermentation continue, it is usual to
 rack it again into a clean cask that has been
well sulphured out, and to leave behind the
 head and sediment; or two or three cans
 of cider are put into a clean cask, and a
                       38
      fl^otne       M^^t WLintu
match of brimstone burned In it. It is then
agitated, by which the fermentation of that
quantity   is   completely stopped.        The cask
isthen nearly filled, the fermentation of the
whole is checked, the process of racking is
repeated until     it   becomes   so,   and   is   con-
tinued from time to time till the cider            is   in
a quiet state and fit for drinking.


                FRENCH CIDER
  After the fruit is mashed in a mill, be-
tween iron cylinders, it is allowed to remain
in a large tun or tub for fourteen or fif-
teen hours, before pressing.            The juice is
placed in casks, which are kept quite full,
and so placed under gawntrees, or stillions,
that small tubs     may be put under them, to
receive the matter that works over.  At the
end of three or four days for sweet cider,
and nine or ten days for strong cider, it is
racked into sulphured casks, and then stored
in a cool place.


                WESTERN CIDER
  To one pound of sugar, add one-half
ounce of tartaric acid, two tablespoonfuls
of good yeast.   Dissolve the sugar in one
quart of warm water; put all in a gallon
jug, shako it well, fill the jug with pure
                          39
         Hfowe JWaat WLlmu
cold     water,   let   it   stand       uncorked twelve
hours, and it is fit for use.

         CIDER WITHOUT APPLES
     To each gallon of cold water, put one
pound common sugar, one-half ounce                  tar-
taric acid, one tablespoonful of yeast.            Shake
well,   make in the evening, and it will be fit
for use next day.            Make in        a keg a few
gallons at a time, leaving a few quarts to
make into next time, not using yeast again
until keg needs rinsing.  If it gets a little
sour, make a little more into it, or put as
much water with it as there is cider, and put
it   with the vinegar.       If it is desired to bottle
this cider by manufacturers of small drinks,
you will proceed as follows five gallons hot
                                     :



water, thirty pounds brown sugar, three-
quarters     pound      tartaric     acid,    twenty-five
gallons cold water, three pints of hops or
brewers' yeast worked into paste with three-
quarters pound flour, and one pint water
will    be required in making this paste.            Put
all together in a barrel, which it will fill, and

let it work twenty-four hours, the yeast run-
ning out at a bung all the time, by putting
in a little occasionally to keep it full.  Then
bottle, putting in two  or three broken   raisins
to each bottle, and it will nearly equal cham-
pagne.
                             40
           ^cmt JWatrt Wiintn
                  CIDER WINE
  Let the new cider from sour apples (ripe,
sound fruit preferred) ferment from one to
three weeks, as the weather is warm or cool.
When it has attained to a lively fermentation,
add to each gallon, according to its acidity,
from one-half pound to two pounds of white
crushed sugar, and let the whole ferment
until it possesses    precisely the taste which
it   is   desired should be permanent.     In this
condition pour out one quart of the cider,
and add for each gallon of cider one-quarter
ounce of sulphite of lime, not sulphate.      Stir
the powder and cider until intimately mixed,
and return the emulsion to the fermenting
liquid. Agitate briskly and thoroughly for
a few moments, and then let the cider settle.
Fermentation will cease at once.      When,
after a few days, the cider has become clear,
draw off carefully, to avoid the sediment,
and bottle. If loosely corked, which is bet-
ter, it will become a sparkling cider wine, and
may be kept indefinitely long.

            TO MAKE CLARY WINE
     Take    twelve pounds   of   Malaga   raisins,
pick them and chop them very small, put
them in a tub, and to each pound one-half
pint of water. Let them steep ten or eleven
                        41
             ^omt ittatrr imintu
days, stirring it twice every day; you must
keep        it   covered close    all   Then
                                         the while.
strain it oif, and put it into a vessel, and
about one-quarter peck of the tops of clary,
when it is in blossom; stop it close for six
weeks, and then bottle it off. In two or three
months it is fit to drink.              It is apt to have a
great sediment at bottom;                  therefore   it   is

best to draw it off by plugs, or tap it pretty
high.


      TO MAKE FINE CLARY WINE
  To five gallons of water put twelve and
one-half pounds of sugar, and the whites of
six eggs well beaten.  Set it over the fire,
and let it boil gently near an hour; skim
it clean and put it in a tub, and when it

is near cold, then put into the vessel you

keep it in about half a strike of clary in the
blossom,  stripped from the stalks, flowers
and little leaves together, and one pint of
new ale-yeast. Then put in the liquor, and
stir it two or three times a day for three
days when it has done working, stop it up,
        ;


and bottle it at three or four months old,
if it is clear.

                     CLOVER WINE
  Three quarts blossoms, four quarts boiling
water; let stand three days. Drain, and to
                             42
           ^omt JWatrir mLimn
the flower heads add three more quarts of wa-
ter   and the peel of one lemon.               Boil fifteen
minutes, drain, and add to other juice.                To
every quart, add one pound of sugar;                   fer-
ment with one cup of yeast. Keep in warm
room three weeks, then bottle.


            TO MAKE COCK ALE
  Take five gallons of ale, and a large cock,
the older the better.         Parboil the cock, flay
him, and stamp him in a stone mortar till his
bones are broken (you must craw and gut
him when you flay him), then put the cock
into one quart of sack, and put to it one and
one-half pounds of raisins of the sun stoned,
some blades of mace, and a few cloves.                 Put
all these into a canvas bag, and a little before

you find the ale has done working, put the
ale and bag together into a vessel.     In a
week or nine days' time bottle it up fill the     ;


bottle but just above the neck, and give it
the same time to ripen as other ale.


       TO MAKE COWSLIP WINE
      To   three   gallons        of   water    put   seven
pounds of sugar;        stir it well together,         and
beat the whites of ten eggs very well, and
mix with the liquor, and make it boil as fast
as possible. Skim it well, and let it continue
                             43
         I^ome JWa^tre WLimn
boiling two hours ;   then strain it through
a hair sieve, and set it a coohng, and when
it is cold as wort should be, put a small

quantity of yeast to it on a toast, or in a
dish.  Let it stand all night working; then
bruise one-half peck of cowslips, put them
into your vessel, and your liquor upon them,
adding three ounces of syrup of lemons. Cut
a turf of grass and lay on the bung; let it
stand a fortnight, and then bottle it. Put
your tap into your vessel before you put
your wine in, that you may not shake it.


 COWSLIP OR CLARY WINE, NO. 2
     The best method of making these wines is
to put in the pips dry, when the fermenta-
tion of the wine has subsided.       This method
is   preferred for two reasons:      first,   it   may
be performed at any time of the year when
lemons are cheapest, and when other wine is
making;     second,   all    waste of the pips      is

avoided.  Being light, they are sure to
work over if put in the cask while the wine
is   in a state of fermentation.    Boil fourteen
pounds of good moist sugar with five gal-
lons of water, and one ounce of hops. Shave
thin the  rinds of eight lemons or Seville
oranges, or part of each; they must be put
in the boil the last quarter of an hour, or
                            44
          fi^omt JWatrt WLinm

the      boiling    liquor        poured   over   them.
Squeeze the juice to be added when cool, and
rinse the pulp in the hot liquor, and keep
it filled up, either with wine or new beer, as

long as it works over; then paste brown
paper, and leave it for four, six, or eight
months.     The quantity of flowers is one
quart of flowers to each gallon of wine.
Let them be gathered on a fine, dry day, and
carefully picked from every bit of stalk and
green.    Spread them thinly on trays, sheets,
or papers, and turn them often.         When
thoroughly dry put them in paper bags,
until the wine is ready to receive them.   Put
them in at the bung-hole; stir them down
two or three times a day, till all the cowslips
have sunk    at the same time add isinglass.
             ;


Then paste over again with paper.                 In six
months the wine will be fit to bottle, but will
be improved by keeping longer in the cask.
The pips shrink into a very small compass
in drying; the quantity allowed is of fresh-
gathered flowers.   Observe, also, that wine
well boiled, and refined with hops and isin-
glass, is just as good used from the cask
as if bottled, which is a great saving of time
and hazard.        Wine made on the above prin-
ciples has been often praised by connois-
seurs, and supposed to have been bottled
half a day.
                             45
            I^Dtne M^^^ 2Wlm J5

               CURRANT SHRUB
  Take white currants when quite ripe, pick
them off the stalks, and bruise them. Strain
out the juice through a cloth, and to two
quarts of the juice put two pounds of loaf
sugar; when it is dissolved, add one gallon
of rum, then strain through a flannel bag-
that will keep in the jelly, and it will run
off clear.     Then bottle for use.

                CURRANT WINE
     Take four     gallons of currants, not too
ripe,    and   strip   them    into an earthen stein
that has a cover to it. Then take two and
one-half gallons of water and five and one-
half pounds of double refined sugar; boil
the sugar and water together, skim it, and
pour it boiling hot on the currants, letting
it stand forty-eight hours; then strain it
through a flannel bag into the stein again,
let it   stand a fortnight to settle, and bottle
it   out.


            CURRANT WINE, NO. S
     The currants should be fully ripe when
picked.  Put them into a large tub, in which
they should remain a day or two, then crush
with the hands, unless you have a small
patent wine-press, in which they should not
                              46
         ISl^oMt   M^^t Wiinm
be pressed too much, or the stems      will   be
bruised, and impart a disagreeable taste to
the juice.  If the hands are used, put the
 crushed fruit, after the juice has been
poured off, in a cloth or sack and press out
the remaining juice.     Put the juice back
into the tub after cleansing it, where it
 should remain about three days, until the
first stages of fermentation are over, and

 remove once or twice a day the scum copi-
ously arising to the top. Then put the juice
in a vessel,  —  a demijohn, keg, or barrel,
—   of a size to suit the quantity made, and
to each quart of juice add three pounds of
the best yellow sugar, and soft water suf-
ficient to make a gallon.    Thus, ten quarts
of juice and thirty pounds of sugar will give
you ten gallons of wine, and so on in pro-
portion.   Those who do not like sweet wine
can reduce the quantity of sugar to two and
one-half, or who wish it very sweet, raise
to three and one-half pounds per gallon.
The vessel must be full, and the bung or
stopper left off until fermentation ceases,
which will be in twelve or fifteen days.
Meanwhile, the cask must be filled up daily
with currant juice left over, as fermentation
throws out the impure matter. When fer-
mentation ceases, rack the wine off carefully,
either   from the spigot or by a siphon, and
                      47
         I^Dtnt iWaire WLintu

keep running all the time. Cleanse the cask
thoroughly with boiling water, then return
the wine, bung up tightly, and let it stand
four or five months, when it will be fit to drip,
and can be bottled if desired.     All the ves-
sels,   casks, etc., should be perfectly   sweet,
and the whole operation should be done with
an eye to cleanliness. In such event, every
drop of brandy or other spirituous liquors
added will detract from the flavor of the
wine, and will not in the least degree increase
its keeping quahties.   Currant wine made in
this way will keep for an age.



         CURRANT WINE, NO.             3
   To every pailful of currants, on the stem,
put one pailful of water; mash and strain.
To each gallon of the mixture of juice and
water add three and one-quarter pounds of
sugar.    Mix well and put into your cask,
which should be placed in the cellar, on the
tilt, that it may be racked off in October,

without stirring up the sediment.       Two
bushels of currants will  make one barrel of
wine.    Four gallons of the mixture of juice
and water will, after thirteen pounds of
sugar are added, make five gallons of wine.
The barrel should be filled within three inches
of the bung, which must be      made air tight
                        48
           Il^onie JWaire Wiinm

by placing wet clay over it after it is driven
in.
     Pick your currants when ripe on a fair
      2.
                                     gallon of
day, crush them well, and to every
juice add two   gallons  of water  and   three
            sugar;      you wish  it  sweeter,
pounds of           if

add another one-half pound of sugar. Mix
all together in some large
                             vessel, then dip

                  jars.  Let it stand to fer-
out into earthen
                    place, skimming   it every
ment in some   cool
other morning.        In about ten days it will be
ready      to strain off; bottle and seal, or put

in a cask and cork tight.      The longer you
keep it the better it will be.



           CURRANT WINE, NO.             4
                                              of
    Into a five gallon keg put five quarts
currant juice, fifteen pounds    of sugar,  and
fill up with water.
                        Let it stand in a cool
place until sufficiently worked, and then
                                           bung
                             remain    the cask,
up tight. You can let it            in

 and draw out as you want to use it.

CURRANT OR GOOSEBERRY WINE,
      WITHOUT BOILING
       Take ten quarts of fruit, bruise it, and
 add to it five quarts of water. Stir it well
                                            then
 together, and let it stand twelve hours ;
 strain     it   through a coarse canvas bag or
                            49
              ^omt jWatie Wiintu
hair sieve, add eleven pounds of good Lisbon
 sugar, and stir it well.        Put the pulp of the
fruit into a gallon more water ;           stir it about
and let it stand twelve hours.             Then strain
to the above, again stirring it;             cover   tlie

tub with a sack.          In a day or two the wine
will begin to ferment.          When the whole sur-
face     is   covered with a thick, yeasty froth,
begin to skim it on to a          sieve.   What runs
through may be returned to the wine. Do
this from time to time for several days, till
no more 3^east forms. Then put it into the
cask.

  IMITATION OF CYPRESS WINE
  To five gallons of water put five quarts
of the juice of white elderberries, pressed
gently through a sieve without bruising the
seeds.        Add to every gallon of liquor one and
one-half pounds of sugar, and to the whole
quantity one ounce of sliced ginger, and one-
half ounce of cloves.           Boil this nearly an
hour, taking off the scum as  it rises, and

pour in an open tub to cool. Work it with
ale yeast spread upon a toast of bread for
three days.        Then turn it into a vessel that
will just hold it, adding about three-quarters
pound bruised raisins, to lie in the liquor
till drawn off, which should not be done till

the wine is       fine.

                           50
         Jl^omt M^'Ot WLUxtu

                   DAISY WINE
  One quart of daisy heads, one quart                     of
cold water.    Let stand forty-eight hours.
Strain and add three-quarters pound of sugar
to each quart of hquid. Let stand about two
weeks, or   till   it    stops fermenting.          Strain
again and bottle.            It improves with keeping.


            DANDELION WINE
   Four quarts of dandelions. Cover with
four quarts of boiling water ; let stand three
days.  Add peel of three oranges and one
lemon.    Boil fifteen minutes;            drain and add
juice of oranges and lemon to four pounds
of sugar and one cup of yeast.                     Keep   in

warm room and strain again             ;    let   stand for
three weeks.       It   is   then ready to bottle and
serve.


               DAMSON WINE
   Gather the fruit dry, weigh, and bruise
it, and to every eight pounds of fruit add
one gallon of water; boil the water, pour
it on the fruit scalding hot.  Let it stand
for two days; then draw it off, put it into
 a clean cask, and to every gallon of liquor
 add two and one-half pounds of good sugar.
 Fill the cask.         It    may be bottled off after
 standing in the cask a year.             On bottling
                               51
          momt m^^t Wiimu
the wine, put a small               lump   of loaf sugar
into every bottle.


DAMSON, OR BLACK CHERRY WINE
  Damson, or Black Cherry Wine may be
made in the same manner, excepting the ad-
dition of spice,        and that the sugar should
be finer.        If kept in an open vessel four days,
these wines will ferment of themselves ;             but
it is   better to forward the process by the use
of a little yeast, as in former recipes.           They
will be fit for use in     about eight months. As
there     is    a flatness belonging to both these
wines     if     bottled,   a teaspoonful of rice, a
lump or two of sugar, or four or five raisins
will    tend to enliven       it.




                          EBULUM
     To   one hogshead of strong ale take a
heaped bushel of elderberries, and one-half
pound of juniper-berries beaten.              Put in pA]
the berries when you put in the hops, anrl
letthem boil together till the berries break
in        then work it up as you do ale.
       pieces,
When it has done working add to it one-half
pound of ginger, one-half ounce of cloves,
one-half ounce of mace, one ounce of nut-
megs,          one   ounce    of    cinnamon,    grossly
beaten,        one-half     pound of   citron,   one-half
                               52
        i^came JHaJre WLitxtn

pound of eringo root, and likewise of can-
died orange-peel.        Let the sweetmeats be cut
in pieces very thin,       and put with the spice
into a bag, and hang it in the vessel when
you stop it up. So let it stand till it is fine,
then bottle it up, and drink it with lumps
of double refined sugar in the glass.


         ELDER -FLOWER WINE
  Take the flowers of elder, and be careful
that you don't     let   any    stalks in ;   to every
quart of flowers put one gallon of water,
and   thi^ee   pounds of loaf sugar.          Boil the
water and sugar a quarter of an hour, then
pour it on the flowers and let it work three
days; then strain the wine through a hair
sieve, and put it into a cask.   To every ten
gallons of wine add one ounce of isinglass
dissolved in cider, and six whole eggs. Close
it up and let it stand six months, and then

bottle it.


       TO MAKE ELDER WINE
  Take five pounds of Malaga raisins, rub
them and shred them small; then take one
gallon of water, boil it an hour, and let it
stand till it is but blood-warm; then put it
in an earthen crock or tub, with your rai-
sins. Let them steep ten days, stirring them
                           53
          %otng J^aHe wminm
once or twice a day; then pass the Hquor
through a hair sieve, and have in readiness
one pint of the juice of elderberries drawn
off as you do for jelly of currants; then
mix it cold with the liquor, stir it well to-
gether, put it into a vessel, and let it stand
in a    warm place.         When it has done work-
ing, stop    it   close.    Bottle   it   about Candle-
mas.
            ELDERBERRY WINE
   Nine quarts elderberry juice, nine quarts
 water, eleven and one-half pounds white
 sugar, two ounces red tartar. These are put
into a cask, a little yeast added, and the
whole is fermented. When undergoing fer-
mentation, one ounce ginger foot, one ounce
allspice, one-quarter ounce cloves are put into
a bag of clean cotton cloth, and suspended in
the cask.     They will give a pleasant flavor
to the wine, which will become clear in about
two months, and may be drawn off and bot-
tled. Add some brand}^ to this wine, but if
the fermentation       is   properly conducted, this
is   not necessary.


           ELDER WINE, NO.                   2
     Take spring-water, and let it boil half an
hour;     then measure two and one-half gal-
lons,   and let it stand to cool. Then have in
                             54
         '^omt JHatlrt WLintn
readiness ten pounds of raisins of the sun
well picked and rubbed in a cloth, and hack
them so as to cut them, but not too small;
then put them in, the water being cold, and
let them stand nine days, stirring them two
or three times     a day.       Then have ready
three pints of the juice of elderberries full
ripe, which must be infused in boiling water,
or baked three hours      ;    then strain out the
raisins,   and when the elder liquor            is    cold,
mix that with it, but ib is best to boil up the
juice to a syrup, one-half pound of sugar
to every pint of juice.     Boil and skim it,
and when cold mix it with your raisin liquor,
and two or three spoonfuls of good ale yeast.
Stir it well together     then put it into a
                          ;


vessel fit for it, let it stand in a     warm place
to  work,    and   in   your    cellar   five    or    six
months.



           ELDER WINE, NO.                3
     The quantity of fruit required is one gal-
lon of ripe elderberries, and one quart of
damsons or sloes, for every two gallons of
wine to be produced.    Boil them in water
till the damsons burst, frequently breaking

them with a flat stick; then strain and re-
turn the liquor to the copper. The quan-
tity of liquor required for nine gallons of
                         55
         ^omt J^atrt Wiimn
wine    will   be ten gallons;         therefore   if   the
first   liquor proves short of this,          add water
to the pulp, rub    about and strain to the
                       it

rest.     Boil   two
                  hours with twenty-three
pounds of coarse moist sugar; three-quar-
ters of a pound of ginger bruised, one-half
a pound of allspice, and one ounce of cin-
namon, loosely tied in a muslin bag, and two
or three ounces of hops.               When quite cool
work on the foregoing plan, tun in two days,
drop in the spice, and suspend the bag by
a string not long enough to let it touch the
bottom of the cask; fill it up for a fort-
night, then paste over stiff brown paper.
It will be fit to tap in two months will keep ;



for years, but does not improve by age like
many other wines.           It   is   never better than
in the first year of its age.



 ELDER WINE (FLAVORED WITH
                       HOPS)
   The         which must be thoroughly
          berries,
                       from the stalk, and
ripe, are to be stripped
squeezed to a pulp.  Stir and squeeze this
pulp every day for four days    then sepa-;



rate the juice from the pulp by passing
through a cane sieve or basket. To every
gallon of juice, add one-half gallon of cold
water.     Boil four and one-half gallons with
                            56
         ^ovxt iMatre WLimu
three ounces of hops for one-half hour ; then
strain it and boil again, with one and one-
half pounds of sugar to the gallon, for about
ten minutes, skimming all the time;              pour
it   into a cooler, and, while luke-warm,         put
a piece of bread with a little balm on it to
set it working.  Put it into a cask as soon
as cold;    when it has done working, cork it
down, and leave     it six months before it is

tapped.     It   is   then drinkable, but improves
with age exceedingly.


TO MAKE ELDER WINE AT CHRIST-
                            MAS
     Take five pounds        of    Malaga or Lipara
raisins,   rub them clean,           and shred them
small.     Then take five quarts of water, boil
it an hour, and when it is near cold put it
in a tub with the raisins ; let them steep ten
days, and stir them once or twice a day.
Then strain it through a hair sieve, and by
infusion draw one pint of elder-juice, and
one-quarter       of    a   pint   of   damson   juice.

Make the juice into a thin syrup, a pound
of sugar to a pint of juice, and not boil it
much, but just enough to keep. When you
have strained out the raisin liquor, put that
and the syrup into a vessel fit for it, and
one-half a pound of sugar. Stop the bung
                             57
        li^ome m^^t miinm

with a cork    till   it   gathers to a head, then
open it, and let it stand till it has done
working; then put the cork in again, and
stop it very close, and let it stand in a warm
place two or three months, and then bottle
it.  Make the elder and damson juice into
syrup in its season, and keep it in a cool
cellar till you have convenience to make the
wine.




TO MAKE ELDER -FLOWER WATER
   Take two large handfuls of dried elder-
flowers,  and ten gallons of spring-water;
boil the water, and pour it scalding hot upon
the flowers.    The next day put to every
gallon of water five pounds of Malaga rai-
sins, the stalks being first picked off, but not
washed;    chop them grossly with a chop-
ping-knife, then put  them into your boiled
water, and stir the water, raisins, and flow-
ers well together, and so do twice a day for
twelve days.      Then press out the juice clear,
as  long as you can get any liquor out.
Then put it in your barrel fit for it, and
stop it up two or three days till it works,
and in a few days stop it up close, and let
it stand two or three months, till it is clear;

then bottle it.
                            58
        ^mm iWaJrt WLimu
         ENGLISH FIG WINE
  Take the large blue figs when pretty ripe,
and steep them in white wine, having made
some slits in them, that they may swell and
gather in the substance of the wine. Then
slice some other figs and let
                                 them simmer
over  a fire in water until they  are reduced

to a kind of pulp.   Then strain out the water,
pressing the pulp hard and pour it as hot
                                             as
                                      in the
possible on the figs that are imbrued
wine.   Let the quantities be nearly equal,
                                       wine
but the water somewhat more than the
                                     hours,
and figs. Let them stand twenty-four
mash them well together, and draw oiT what
will run without squeezing. Then press the
rest,and if not sweet enough add a sufficient
quantity of sugar to make it so. Let it
                                         fer-

ment, and add to it a httle honey and
                                      sugar
candy, then fine it with white of eggs,
                                         and
                                     for use.
 a little isinglass, and draw it off


    TO MAKE FRONTIGNAC WINE
   Take three gallons of water, six pounds
 of white sugar, and three pounds of
                                          raisins
                             these  together   an
 of the sun cut small ; boil
                              flowers  of  elder,
 hour.   Then take of the
 when they are falling, and will shake off, the
 quantity of half a peck; put them in the
 liquor when it is almost cold. The next
                                           day
                        59
        ^omt JHaat Wiinm
put in three spoonfuls of syrup of lemons
and two spoonfuls of ale-yeast, and two days
after put it in a vessel that is fit for it, and
when it has stood two months, bottle it off.

                 GINGER BEER
     The proportions of this may vary.  Loaf
sugar    is                      some say a
              preferable to moist;
pound to a gallon, others a pound and a half.
Some allow but half an ounce of ginger
(sliced or bruised) to a gallon, others an
ounce. A lemon to a gallon is the usual pro-
portion, to which some add a quarter of an
ounce or half an ounce of cream of tartar.
The white of an egg to each gallon is use-
ful for clarifying, but not absolutely neces-
sary.    Some people put a quarter of a pint
of brandy to four gallons of beer by way of
keeping it; half an ounce of hops boiled in
it would answer the same purpose. Boil the
sugar, and shaved rind of lemons      let it
                                        ;


boil half an hour.  Clear the lemons of the
white pith and put them in the wine.        When
cool, stir in the yeast (two tablespoonfuls to
a gallon), put it in the barrel without strain-
ing, and bung close.     In a fortnight draw
off and bottle.   It will be ready for use in
another fortnight, and will keep longer than
ginger pop.      If cream of tartar Is used, pour
the boiling liquor over it, but do not boil it,
                         60
         ^omt J^atrt WLinm
           GINGER BEER,            NO. 2
   Seven pounds crushed white sugar, eight
gallons water, one-half cup of yeast, four
ounces best powdered ginger, a few drops
of essence of lemon, one-half teaspoonful es-
sence of cloves.         To the ginger pour one
pint of boiling water and let it stand fifteen
or twenty minutes.     Dissolve the sugar in
two quarts of warm water, pour both into a
barrel half-filled with cold water, then add
the essence and the yeast; let it stand one-
half hour, then fill up with cold water. Let
it ferment six to twelve hours and bottle.




               GINGER WINE
  Take four        gallons of water, ten pounds
of loaf sugar, one        and one-quarter pounds
of bruised ginger, one ounce of hops, the
shaved     rinds    of   five   lemons   or   Seville
oranges.    Let these boil together for two
hours, carefully skimming.    Pour it, with-
out straining, on to two pounds of raisins.
When cool, put in the juice of the lemons or
oranges; rinse the pulp in a pint or two of
the wine, and strain it to the rest.    Fer-
ment it with yeast; mix one-half cup of
solid yeast with a pint or two of the wine,
and with that work the rest. Next day tun
it, raisins, hops, ginger, and all together,

                          61
         ^omt JMaSre Wilnm
and fill it up for a fortnight either with
wine or with good new beer; then dissolve
one ounce of isinglass in a little of the wine,
and return it to the rest to fine it. A few
days afterward bung it close.
   This wine will be in full perfection in six
months.    It may be bottled, but is apt to
fly ; and if made exactly by the above direc-

tions, and drawn from the cask, it will
sparkle like champagne.

  TO MAKE GOOSEBERRY WINE
   Boil four gallons of water, and one-half
pound of sugar an hour, skim it well, and
let it stand till it is cold. Then to every
quart of that water, allow one and one-half
pounds of gooseberries, first beaten or
bruised very well;    let it   stand twenty-four
hours.    Then strain it out, and to every gal-
lon of this hquor put three pounds of sugar
let it   stand in the vat twelve hours. Then
take the thick scum     off, and put the clear

into a vessel fit for it, and let it stand a

month; then draw it off, and rinse the vessel
with some of the liquor.    Put it in again,
and let it stand  four months, and bottle it.

            GOOSEBERRY WINE
   Take to every four pounds of gooseber-
ries   one and one-quarter pounds of sugar,
                       62
                                                              ;




               %ome i»aStc W^inm
and one quart of fair water. Bruise the ber-
ries, and steep them twenty-four hours in

the water, stirring them often   then press     ;


the hquor from them, and put your sugar
to the Hquor.            Then put in a vessel fit for
it, and when it is done working stop it up,
and let it stand a month; then rack it off
into another vessel, and let it stand five or
six weeks longer.  Then bottle it out, put-
ting a small lump of sugar into every bottle
cork your bottles well, and three months' end
it will   be fit to drink. In the same manner
is    currant and raspberry wine made; but
cherry wine differs, for the cherries are not
to be bruised, but stoned, and put the sugar
and water together, and give it a boil and
a skim, and then put in your fruit, letting
it stew with a gentle fire a quarter of an

hour, and then let it run through a sieve
without pressing, and when it is cold put
it    in   a   vessel,   and order   it    as your goose-
berry or currant wine. The only cherries
for wine are the great bearers, Murray
cherries, Morelloes,         Black Flanders, or the
John Treduskin cherries.

           GOOSEBERRY WINE,                     NO. 2
   Pick and bruise the gooseberries, and to
every pound of berries put one quart of
cold spring water,            and    let   it       stand three
                              63
           I^oint JWaae Si2iinei$

days, stirring it twice or thrice a day.           Add
to every gallon of juice three pounds of loaf
sugar.  Fill the barrel, and when it is done
working, add to every ten quarts of liquor
one pint of brandy and a little isinglass.
The gooseberries must be picked when they
are just changing color.          The liquor ought
to stand in the barrel six months.           Taste it
occasionally,        and bottle when the sweetness
has gone off.



GOOSEBERRY AND CURRANT WINE
     The following method of making superior
gooseberry and currant wines is recom-
mended in a French work.
  For currant wine four pounds of honey,
dissolved in seven gallons of boiling water,
to which,      when clarified, is added the juice
of four pounds of red or white currants.
It   is   then fermented for twenty-four hours
and one pound of sugar to every one gallon
of water is added.      The preparation is
afterward clarified with whites of eggs and
cream of tartar.
  For gooseberry wine, the fruit is gath-
ered dry when about half-ripe, and then
pounded in a mortar. The juice when prop-
erly      strained   is   mixed with sugar    in   the
proportion of three pounds to every two
                             64
        ^mm iUlaJe WLinm
gallons of juice.   It is     then       left in   a quiet
state for fifteen days, at the expiration of
which it is carefully poured off and left to
ferment for three months, when the quantity
is under fifteen gallons, and five months
when double that quantity. It is then bot-
tledand soon becomes fit for drinking.

       PEARL GOOSEBERRY WINE
  Take as many as you please of the best
gooseberries,   bruise   them,           and   let   them
stand all night.    The next morning press
or squeeze them out and let the liquor stand
to settle seven or eight hours then pour off
                                     ;


the clear from the settling, and measure it as
you put it into your vessel, adding to every
three pints of liquor one pound of double
refined sugar.   Break your sugar into fine
lumps, and put it in the vessel with a bit of
isinglass, stop it up, and at three months'
end bottle it out, putting into every bottle
a lump of double refined sugar. This is the
fine gooseberry wine.



        RED GOOSEBERRY WINE
   Take five gallons cold soft water, five and
one-half gallons    red gooseberries, and fer-
ment.    Now mix eight pounds raw sugar,
one pound beet root       sliced,        one-half ounce
                         65
        ^omt il^alic Wfrlmu
red tartar in fine powder.  Afterward put
in one-balfpound sassafras chips, one-half
gallon brandy or less. This will make nine
gallons.

 RED AND WHITE GOOSEBERRY
           WINE
  Take one and one-half gallons               cold soft
water, three qua;rts          red gooseberries, tv/o
quarts white gooseberries.           Ferment.      Now
mix two and one-half pounds raw sugar,
three-quarters pound honey, one-half ounce
tartar in fine powder.  Afterwards put in
one ounce bitter almonds, a small handful
sweet briar, two quarts brandy or less.

 WHITE GOOSEBERRY OR CHAM-
        PAGNE WINE
  Take four and one-half gallons cold soft
water      and   fifteen    quarts   of   white   goose-
berries.    Ferment.        Now mix six pounds re-
fined sugar, four          pounds honey, one ounce
white tartar in      powder.
                       fine    Put in one
ounce dry orange and lemon peel, or two
ounces fresh, and add one-half gallon white
brandy.   This will make nine gallons.

   UNFERMENTED GRAPE JUICE
  W^ash and take from the stems ten pounds
ripe Concord grapes. Add two quarts water
                              66
       ^omt JHatre WLiiim
and bring them      to a boil.     Use a potato
masher.      When the    seeds   separate,   strain
through double cheese-cloth.      Add two
pounds of granulated sugar and strain
again.    Bring again to a boil and bottle
directly, boiling hot, cork and seal, or put
into patent bottles.    Serve with cracked ice
in the glass   or diluted with about one-third
ice water.



               GRAPE WINE
   Two quarts of grape juice, two quarts
of water, four pounds of sugar.   Extract the
juice of the grape in    any simple way; if
only a few quarts are desired, we do it with
a strainer and a pair of squeezers if a large
                                     ;


quantity is desired, put the grapes into a
cheese-press made particularly clean, put-
ting on sufficient weight to extract the juice
of a full hoop of grapes, being careful that
none but perfect grapes are used, perfectly
ripe and free from blemish.    After the first
pressing, put a little water with the pulp
and press a second time, using the juice of
the second pressing with the water to be
mixed with the clear grape juice. If only
a few quarts are made, place the wine as
soon as mixed into bottles, filling them even
full, and allow to stand in a warm place

                        67
           ^omt ilHairt m^imn
until      it       which will take about
                ferments,
thirty-six hours usually ; then remove all
the scum, cool, and put into a dark, cool
place.  If a few gallons are desired, place
in a keg, but the keg must be even full, and
after fermentation has taken place and the
scum removed, draw off and bottle, and cork
tight.



                GRAPE WINE,         NO. 2
     The    larger the proportion of juice and
the less of water, the nearer it will approach
to the strength and richness of foreign wine.
There ought not to be            less   than one-third
juice pure.   Squeeze the grapes in a hair
sieve, bruising them with the hand rather
than any heavier press, as it is better not
to crush the stones.        Soak the pulp in water
until a sufficient quantity is obtained to         fill

up the cask. As loaf sugar is to be used for
this wine, and it is not easily dissolved in
cold liquid, the best plan is to pour over the
sugar, three pounds in every gallon required,
as much boiling water as will dissolve it, and
stir till it is     dissolved.   When cold, put it
                          fill up from water
in the cask with the juice,
in  which the pulp has been steeped.     To
each gallon of wine, put one-half ounce of
bitter almonds, not blanched, but cut small.
                            d8
         J^omt JWaire WLlntu
The fermentation     will      not be very great.
When it subsides, proceed with brandy and
papering.


           GRAPE WINE,            NO. 3
  Crush the grapes and let them stand one
week.  Drain off the juice, strain; add one
quart of water and three pounds of sugar
to each gallon.   Put in a barrel or cask
with a thin piece of muslin tacked over the
bung-hole, and let stand until fermentation
stops.    Put in a cask and seal securely, and
let   stand six months.  Then bottle and seal
and keep in cool place.


                 HOP BEER
      Turn five quarts of water on six ounces
of hops;     boil three hours.      Strain off the
liquor; turn on four quarts more of water,
and twelve spoonfuls of ginger, and boil the
hops three hours longer.    Strain and mix
it with the other liquor, and stir in two

quarts of molasses. Brown, very dry, one-
half pound of bread, and put in,        —
                                     rusked
bread is best. Pound it fine, and  brown   it

in a pot, like coffee. After cooling to be
about luke-warm, add one pint of new yeast
that is free from salt. Keep the beer cov-
ered, in a temperate situation, till fermen-
                          69
         Jl^t^mt JWaJr Wiim^

tation     has ceased, which   is   known by   the
setthng of the froth; then turn it into a
keg or bottles, and keep it in a cool place.


           JUNIPER-BERRY WINE
   Take four and      one-half gallons of cold
soft water, seven pounds Malaga or       Smyrna
raisins, two and one-quarter quarts juniper-
berries, one-half ounce red tartar, one-half
handful wormwood, one-half handful sweet
marjoram, one pint whiskey or more. Fer-
ment for ten or twelve days.

       KOUMISS, A TARTAR WINE
   Take a quantity of fresh mare's milk, add
to it one-sixth part water, pour the mixture
into a wooden bowl.      Use as a ferment one-
eighth part of skimmed milk;       but at any
future preparation, a small portion of old
koumiss will answer better. Cover the vessel
with a thick cloth and set in a moderately
warm place for twenty-foiir hours,        at the
end of which time the milk will have become
sour, and a thick substance gathered at
the top.      Now, with a    churn-staff, beat it
till   the thick substance above mentioned be
blended intimately with the adjacent fluid.
Leave  it to rest twenty-four hours more;

after which     pour it into a higher and nar-
                        70
         I^oine il»^5e Wiintu

rower vessel resembling a churn, where the
agitation must be repeated as before.   In
this   state   it   is   called    koumiss.      The taste
should be a pleasant mixture of sweet and
sour. It should always be well shaken before
used.
                         KOUMISS
   Heat four cups milk; cool; when luke-
warm, add one-fourth yeast cake dissolved
in one-fourth cup lukewarm water, and two
tablespoons sugar.  Pour into bottles with
patent     stoppers,       fill    two-thirds    full,   cork
tightly.       Shake;      let     stand   in   kitchen six
hours, then on ice for twenty-four hours;
serve ice cold.


         TO MAKE LEMON WINE
   Take six large lemons, pare off the rind,
and squeeze out the juice; steep the rind in
the juice, and put to it one quart of brandy.
Let it stand in an earthen pot close stopped
three days, then squeeze six more, and mix
with two quarts of water, and as much sugar
 as will sweeten the whole.                Boil the water,
 lemons, and sugar together, letting it stand
 till it is cool; then add one quart of white
vvine, and the other lemon and brandy, and
 mix them together, and run it through a
 flannel bag into some vessel. Let it stand
                                  71
         ^omt JMadr Wiintu
three months   and bottle it off; cork your
bottles very well,  and keep it cool. It will
be fit to drink in a month or six weeks.


            LEMON WINE, NO. 2
   Four pounds sugar, one pound          raisins
(bruised), two gallons water.     Boil, then
add one gallon cider. Ferment, and add one
quart of spirits, three-quarters ounce white
tartar, a few drops essence of lemon.    Ob-
serve to shake the essence, with a little of
the spirit, until it becomes milky, before add-
ing it to the wine.


              MADEIRA WINE
   To five gallons prepared cider, add one-
half ounce tartaric acid, one-half pint spir-
its,   one-half pound loaf sugar.   Let it stand
ten days, draw it off carefully, fine it down,
and again rack it into another cask.

MALT WINE, OR ENGLISH SHERRY
   Take twelve pounds of good moist sugar,
two gallons of water. Boil them together
two hours, skimming carefully. When the
scum is all removed, and the liquor looks
clear, add one-half ounce of hops, which
should boil one-quarter hour or twenty min-
utes.  When the liquor is quite cold, add to
                        72
          ?©ome M^^t WLinm
      quarts of strong beer in the height of
it five

working; cover up and let it work forty-
eight hours   then skim and tun.
               ;                    If none
remains for filling up, use new beer for that
purpose. This method may be adopted with
all boiled wines, and will be found to improve

their     strength and promote their keeping.
In a fortnight or three weeks, when the head
begins to sink, add two and one-half pounds
raisins (free from stalks), one ounce of
sugar candy, one ounce of bitter almonds,
one-half cup of the best brandy ; brown pa-
per, as in former articles.   It may be bot-
tled in one year; but if left three years in
the wood, and then bottled, it will be found
equal in strength and flavor to foreign wine.

                      MEAD
  The following is a good recipe for mead:
On five pounds of honey pour five quarts of
boiling water; boil, and remove the scum as
it rises ;add one-quarter ounce of best hops,
and boil for ten minutes. Then pour the
liquor into a tub to cool  when all but cold,
                              ;


add a little yeast spread upon a slice of
toasted bread. Let it stand in a warm room.
When fermentation is finished, bung it down,
leaving a peg-hole which can afterwards be
closed,    and in less than a year it will be fit
to bottle.
                         73
            ?^onir JHalre smfitrsi

            SMALL WHITE MEAD
     Take three gallons of spring water, make
it   hot,   and   dissolve in    it   three quarts   of
honey, and one pound of loaf sugar.    Let it
boil about one-half hour, and skim it as long
as any scum rises.   Then pour it out into a
tub, and squeeze in the juice of four lemons,
put in the rinds but of two. Twenty cloves,
two races of ginger, one top of sweet briar,
and one top of rosemary. Let it stand in
a tub till it is but blood-warm; then make
a brown toast, and spread it with two or
three spoonfuls of ale yeast.           Put it into a
vessel fit for it, let it stand four or five days,
then bottle it out.


        TO MAKE STRONG MEAD
     Take of spring water what quantity you
please,  make it more than blood-warm, and
dissolve honey in it until it is strong enough
to bear an egg^ the breadth of a shilling;
then boil it gently, near an hour, taking oif
the scum as it rises.   Then put to nine or
ten gallons seven or eight large blades of
mace, three nutmegs quartered, twenty cloves,
three or four sticks of cinnamon, two or
three roots of ginger, and one-quarter ounce
of Jamaica pepper       ;   put these spices into the
kettle to the honey and water, a whole lemon,
                            74
          ?i^omt iWaJye Wiimu

with a sprig of sweet briar, and a sprig of
rosemary.  Tie the briar and rosemary to-
gether, and when they have boiled a little
while, take them out and throw them away;
but let your liquor stand on the spice in
a clear earthen pot till the next day. Then
strain it into a vessel that is fit for it, put
the spice in a bag, hang it in the vessel,
stop it, and at three months draw it into
bottles.     Be sure that it is fine when it is
bottled.     After   it   is   bottled six weeks   it   is

fit   to drink.

 MEAD, METHEGLIN, OR HONEY
                          WINE
      Boil honey in water for an hour ; the pro-
portion is from three to four pounds to each
gallon.   Half an ounce of hops will both
refine and preserve it, but is not commonly
added.   Skim carefully, draining the skim-
mings through a hair sieve, and return what
runs through.         When of a proper coolness,
stir in yeast;       one teacupful of solid yeast
will serve for nine gallons.  Tun it, and let
                     up till the fermentation
it work over, filling it

subsides. Paste over brown paper and watch
it.  Rich mead will keep seven years, and
afford a brisk, nourishing, and pleasant
drink.   Some people like to add the thinly
shaved rind of a lemon to each gallon while
                               75
          I^ome iWatre miintn
boiling,   and put the      fruit, free   from pith,
into the tub.     Others flavor     it with spices
and sweet herbs, and mix it         with new beer
or sweet wort ;   it is   then called Welsh Brag-
gart.



                  METHEGLIN
     Mix one and one-half barrels of water with
as    much honey as will cause an egg to rise
a little above the water; then boil the mix-
ture to one barrel, skimming off the surface.
It will be a fine red or wine color, and clear.
Then remove from the fire, and when cold,
put it into a barrel, leaving the bung-hole
open for several days, until fermentation be
over; then stop it close and put into a cold
cellar.

              MOLASSES BEER
   One ounce hops, one gallon water. Boil
for ten minutes, strain, add one pound mo-
lasses, and when lukewarm, add one spoonful
yeast.     Ferment.


              MORELLO WINE
  Take the juice of Morello or tame cher-
ries,   and to each quart of the          juice,   put
three quarts of water, and four pounds of
coarse brown sugar.        Let them ferment, and
                          76
       ^t}mt M^^t WLlmn
skim until worked clear.     Then draw off,
avoiding the sediment at the bottom. Bung
up or bottle, which is best for all wines, let-
ting the bottles He always on the side, either
for wines or beers.

TO MAKE MORELLO CHERRY WINE
   Let your cherries be very ripe, pick off
the stalks,  and bruise your fruit without
breaking the stones. Put them in an open
vessel together; let them stand twenty-four
hours, then press them, and to every gallon
put two pounds of fine sugar; then put it
up in your cask, and when it has done work-
ing, stop it close. Let it stand three or four
months and bottle it; it will be fit to drink
in two months.


              MOUNTAIN WINE
    Pick out the big stalks of your Malaga
raisins;   then chop them very small, five
pounds to every gallon of cold spring water.
Let them steep a fortnight or more, squeeze
out the liquor, and barrel it in a vessel fit for
it.   First fume the vessel with brimstone;
don't stop    it   up till the hissing is over.

              MULBERRY WINE
  On a dry day gather mulberries, when
they are just changing from redness to a
                          77
        fHoine Jttatre WLimn

shining black;       spread them thinly on a fine
cloth, or on a floor or table for twenty-four
hours, and then press them.          Boil a gallon
of water with each gallon of juice, putting
to every gallon of water one ounce of cin-
namon bark and six ounces of sugar candy
finely powdered.   Skim and strain the water
when it is taken off and settled, and put in
the mulberry juice. Now add to every gal-
lon of the mixture one pint of white or Rhen-
ish wine. Let the whole stand in a cask to
ferment for five or six days. When settled
drain   it off   into bottles   and keep cool.


                       NOYAN
   Take six ounces of peach kernels, and one
ounce      ofbitter   almonds.    Break them
slightly.  Put them into a jug with three
pints of white French brandy.        Let them
infuse three weeks, shaking the jug every
day.   Then drain the liquor from kernels,
and strain it through a line bag. Melt three-
quarters of a pound of best loaf sugar in
one pint of rose-water; mix it with the liq-
uor, and filter it through a sieve, the bottom
of which is to be covered on the inside with
blotting    paper.     Let the     vessel   which   is

placed underneath to receive the liquor be
entirely white, that     you may be better en-
                          78
          ^omt jna^lre WLimn
abled to judge of its clearness.         If it is not
clear the first time, repeat the filtering.      Then
bottle for use.


      TO MAKE ORANGE WINE
  Put twelve pounds of fine sugar and the
whites of eight eggs well beaten into                six
gallons of spring water; let it boil an hour,
skimming it all the time. Take it off and
when it is pretty cool, put in the juice and
rind of fifty Seville oranges, and six spoon-
fuls of good ale yeast, and let it stand two
days.   Then put it into your vessel, with
two quarts of Rhenish wine, and the juice
of twelve lemons.     You must let the juice
of lemons and wine and two pounds of double
refined   sugar stand       close   covered    ten   or
twelve hours before you put it in the vessel
to your orange wine,        and skim off the seeds
before you put it in.       The lemon peels must
be put in with the oranges; half the rinds
must be put into the vessel. It must stand
ten or twelve days before it is fit to bottle.


ORANGE, OR LEMON WINE, BOILED
   Take    five   gallons    of     water,    fourteen
pounds of loaf sugar, three eggs, the whites
and shells, one ounce of hops. Boil together
the sugar, water, and eggs; when it has
                        79
          H^ottte iWatre          Witmn
boiled   an hour, and become quite clear, add
the hops and the thinly shaved rinds of six
or eight of the fruit,   —
                        more or less, accord-
ing as the bitter flavor is desired. Let it
boil in all two hours; meanwhile remove all
the peel and white pith of the fruit, and
squeeze the juice. Pour a gallon or two of
the hot liquor on the pulp stir it well about,
                              ;


and when cool strain to the rest, and add
the juice.    Some people strain off the hops,
rind,    and eggs; others prefer their remain-
ing.      It is by no means important which
mode is adopted.      Work it with yeast, as
the foregoing article, and refine with isin-
glass dissolved in a quart of brandy.       This
wine should be one year in wood and one in
bottles, when it will be found excellent.




ORANGE OR LEMON WINE WITHOUT
                    BOILING
  (Take one-half chest of Seville oranges;
they are most juicy in March.      Shave the
rinds of one or two dozen (more or less,
according as the bitter flavor is desired, or
otherwise).    Pour over this one or two quarts
of boiling water;    cover up, and let it stand
twelve hours;    then strain to the rest.   Put
into the cask fifty-six pounds of good Lisbon
sugar.     Clear off all the peel and white pith
                         80
              momt JWalre Wiint^
from the oranges, and squeeze through a
hair sieve.   Put the juice into the cask to
the sugar.    Wash the sieve and pulp with
cold water, and let the pulp soak in the
water twenty-four hours.      Strain, and add
to the last, continually stirring it  add more  ;


water to the pulp, let it soak, then strain
and add. Continue to do so till the cask
is    full,   often stirring      it   with a stick until
all   the sugar is dissolved.              Then leave it to
ferment.         The     fermentation
                                will not be
nearly so great as that of currant wine, but
the hissing noise will be heard for some
weeks;  when this subsides, add honey and
brandy, and paste over with brown paper.
This wine should remain in the cask a year
before bottling.


TO MAKE ORANGE WINE WITH RAI-
                           SINS
  Take seven and one-half pounds of new
Malaga raisins, pick them clean, and chop
them small. You must have five large Seville
oranges;   two of them you must pare as
thin as for preserving. Boil about two gal-
lons of soft water        a third part be con-
                          till

sumed;        let it   cool a     Then put five
                                 little.

quarts of it hot upon your raisins and orange
peel; stir it well together, cover it up, and
when it is cold, let it stand five days, stirring
                            81
             Ij^ome Jttatrt WLintn

it  up once or twice a day. Then pass it
through a hair sieve, and with a spoon press
it as dry as you can, and put it in a runlet

fit for it, and put to it the rinds of the other

three oranges, cut as thin as the first; then
make a syrup of the juice of five oranges
with one-quarter pound of white sugar. It
must be made the day before you tun it up
stir it well      together, and stop it close.     Let
itstand two months to clear, then bottle it
up it will keep three years, and is better
     ;


for keeping.
                         ORGEAT
  Boil two quarts of milk with one stick of
cinnamon, and let it stand to be quite cold,
taking out the cinnamon.        Blanch four
ounces of the best sweet almonds, pound them
well (in a marble mortar) with a little rose-
water mix them well with the milk ; sweeten
         ;


to your taste.   Let it boil again for a few
minutes      ;   strain through a fine sieve till quite
smooth and free from almonds. Serve either
cold or warm in handled glasses.


         TO MAKE PALERMO WINE
     Take to every quart of water one pound
of    Malaga raisins, rub and cut the raisins
small, and put them to the water, and let
them stand ten days, stirring once or twice
                             82
                                                      ;




            IS^omt JHalre WLintu

a day.         You may boil the water an hour
before you put        it   to the raisins,   and let it
stand to cool.        At ten days' end strain out
your liquor, and put a httle yeast to it
and at three days' end put it in the vessel,
with one sprig of dried wormwood.    Let it
be close stopped, and at three months' end
bottle it off.



            TO MAKE PARSNIP WINE
       To six pounds of parsnips, cut in slices,
add two gallons of water boil them till they
                                  ;


become quite soft.    Squeeze the water out
of them, run it through a sieve, and add
to every gallon three pounds of loaf sugar.
Boil the whole three-quarters of an hour, and
when it is nearly cold, add a little yeast.
Let it stand ten days in a tub, stirring it
every day from the bottom, then put it in
a cask for twelve months; as it works over,
fill   it   up every day.


             PARSNIP WINE, NO.               2
       Take one pound of parsnips cleaned and
sliced.       When the water boils, put in the
parsnips, and boil till they are perfectly ten-
der; drain through a sieve or colander with-
out pressing.        Immediately return it to the
                             88
          Jl^omt ittatre WLimu

copper with fourteen pounds of loaf sugar;
it will soon boil, being already hot, and what
drips from the sieve may be added after-
wards; one and one-half ounces of hops, and
boil it two hours.    Ferment with yeast; let
it stand four days to work in a warm place;

and tun and paste paper over. It is most
likely it will work up and burst the paper,
which must be renewed. It may be cleared
with isinglass, but will not require any
brandy.


          PARSNIP WINE, NO.            3
   Take seven and one-half pounds of sliced
parsnips, and boil until quite soft in two and
one-half gallons of water ; squeeze the liquor
well out of them, run it through a sieve, and
add three pounds of coarse lump sugar to
every gallon of liquor.      Boil the whole for
three-quarters of an hour.    When it is nearly
cold,   add a little yeast on toast.   Let it re-
main in a tub for ten days, stirring it from
the bottom every day, then put it into a cask
for a year. As it works over, fill it up every
day.

          TO MAKE PEACH WINE
  Take three gallons cold soft water, four
and one-quarter pounds       refined sugar,   one
                        84
          fk^mt M^tit WLintu
pound honey, one-third ounce white tartar
in fine powder, ten or fourteen peaches.   Fer-
ment; then add six quarts of brandy. The
first division is to be put into a vat, and the

day after, before the peaches are put in,
take the stones from them, break these and
the kernels, then put them and the pulp into
a vat and proceed with the general process.

          PERRY OR PEAR CIDER
  Make this according to directions for apple
cider.     Among the caricatures of the day
(just after Perry's victory on Lake Erie,
1813) was one representing John Bull,        in
the person of the King, seated, with his hand
pressed upon his stomach, indicating pain,
which the fresh juice of the pear, called
perry, will produce.  This caricature is en-
titled " Queen Charlotte and Johnny Bull
got their dose of Perry."

              PINEAPPLE RUM
   To three gallons rum, made by the fruit
method, add two pineapples sliced, and one-
half pound white sugar.   Let it stand two
weeks before drawing off.

                PLUM WINE
  Take five pounds of Malaga raisins, pick,
rub,     and shred them, and put them into a
                       85
         ^mnt iWE^e Wiinm
tub; then take one gallon of water, boil it
an hour, and let it stand till it is blood-warm
then put it to your raisins. Let it stand nine
or ten days, stirring it once or twice a day;
strain out your liquor, and mix it with one
pint of damson juice.    Put it in a vessel,
and when it has done working stop it close;
at four or five months bottle it.



           POP,    OR GINGER BEER
     The principal difference between             ginger
pop and ginger beer is that the former is
bottled immediately, the other         is first   put in
a barrel for a few days. It is also usual to
boil the ingredients for ginger beer, which is
not done for pop.         Both are to be bottled
in stone bottles,     and the corks tied or wired
down.       If    properly done the corks and
strings will serve many times          m succession;
the    moment      the string   is   untied the cork
will fly   out uninjured.       The bottles as soon
as empty should be soaked a few hours in
cold water, shaken about, and turned down,
and scalded immediately before using. The
corks also must be scalded. On one pound
of coarse loaf or fine moist sugar, two ounces
of cream of tartar, one ounce of bruised
ginger, pour one gallon of boiling water;
stir it well and cover up to cool, as the flavor
                          86
             I^oine JWaire Wilntu

of the ginger     is    apt to evaporate.       It   is   a
good way to do thus far the last thing at
night  then it is just fit to set working the
         ;


first   thing in the morning.     Two large table-
spoonfuls of yeast, stir to it one teacupful of
the liquor. Let it stand a few minutes in a
w^armish place, then pour it to the rest ; stir
it well and cover up for eight hours.       Be
particular as to time.          If done earlier the
bottles are apt to fly ;     if later,    the beer soon
becomes vapid.    Skim, strain, bottle, cork,
and tie down. The cork should not touch
the beer.  It will be fit for use next day.
Lemon rind and juice may be added, but are
not necessary.
                       PORTER
   Eight quarters pale malt, six quarters
amber malt, two quarters brown malt. Mash
it twice, with fifty-five and forty-eight bar-

rels    of water, then boil with one hundred-
weight of Kent hops, and set with ten gal-
lons     yeast, seven    pounds   salt,    two pounds
flour. Twenty barrels of good table beer
may be had from the grains. If deficient in
color, add burnt malt.


             PORTER, FOR BOTTLING
   Five quarters pale malt, three quarters
amber malt, two quarters brown malt, burnt
                           87
            I^onu JWaae Wiimu
malt to color if required.    Mash with twenty-
four, fourteen  and eleven barrels of water,
then boil with one hundredweight Kent hops,
and set with seven gallons yeast, three
pounds salt. Mash the grains for table beer.


                   PORT WINE
      To ten gallons prepared cider, add one
and one-half gallons good port wine, two and
one-half quarts wild grapes (clusters), two
ounces bruised rhatany root, three-quarters
ounce tincture of kino, three-quarters pound
loaf sugar, one-half gallon spirits.   Let this
stand ten days   color if too light, with tinc-
                    ;


ture of rhatany, then rack       it   off   and fine
it.  This should be repeated until the color
is perfect and the liquid clear.



            PORT WINE (BRITISH)
      1.   Two gallons damson juice, two gallons
cider,                 ounce sloe juice, one
            three-quarters
pound sugar, one pound honey.       Ferment,
then add one quart spirit, one gallon red
cape, a little over one ounce of red tartar
(dissolved), the same of     powder of catechu,
one-tenth ounce bruised ginger,, one-tenth
ounce cassia, a few cloves.  Mix well with
two tablespoonfuls of brandy coloring.
  2. Two pounds buUace, ten pounds dam-
                                                             ;




          ^amt JHaire WLitit^
soT^s,   one and one-half gallons water.                  Boil
the water, skim       and pour it boiling hot
                            it,

on the fruit    let it stand four or six days
                      ;


p^t least.  During that time bruise the fruit
or squeeze it with your hands.        Then draw
or pour it off into     a  cask,  and    to every
gallon of liquor, put two pounds       and  a half
of fine sugar, or rather  more   put    some;
                                             yeast
on a slice of bread       (warm)     to  work   it.

When done working, put a      little brandy   into
the cask and fill it up.     Bung it up close,
and let it stand six or twelve months then            ;


bottle    it    This wine is nearer in flavor
               off.

to port than any other.    If made with cold
water, it will be equally as good, but of a
different color.
   3.    Five    gallons          cider,   one gallon eldei*
juice, one gallon port wine,                  one and one-
quarter pint brandy, one and one-fifth ounces
red tartar, one-fifth ounce catechu, one gill
finings,       one ounce logwood.               Mix well and
bung close.


         TO MAKE QUINCE WINE
   Take your quinces when they are thor-
oughly     ripe,          wipe    off   the fur very clean
then take out the cores, bruise them as you
do apples for cider, and press them, adding
to every gallon of juice two and one-half
                                   89
          I^ome JWaJre Wiimn
pounds of fine sugar'.           Stir   it   together   till

it is          then put it into your cask,
        dissolved;
and when it has done working stop it close.
Let     it stand till March before you bottle

it.     You may keep it two or three years; it
will be the better.


           QUINCE WINE, NO.                    2
      Twelve   sliced   quinces.    Boil for quarter
of an hour in one gallon water;   then add
two pounds lump sugar. Ferment, and add
one gallon lemon wine, one pint spirit.


                   RAISIN WINE
   There are various modes of preparing
this   wine, which is, perhaps, when well
made, the best of English wines. The fol-
lowing recipes are considered good
   For raisin wine without sugar, put to
every gallon of soft water eight pounds of
fresh Smyrna or Malaga raisins; let them
steep one month, stirring every day.   Then
drain the liquor and put it into the cask,
filling it up as it works over; this it will
do for two months. When the hissing has
in a great measure subsided, add brandy
and honey, and paper as in the former arti-
cles. This wine should remain three years
untouched  it may then be drank from the
               ;



                            90
          H^ome Jttaire WLimu
cask, or bottled,          and it will be found excel-
lent.     Raisin     wine        is   sometimes       made   in
large quantities, by merely putting the rai-
sins in the cask,      and filling it up with water,
the proportion as above;        carefully pick out
all stalks.       In six months rack the wine into
fresh casks, and put to each the proportion
of brandy and honey.                   In cider countries
and plentiful apple years, a most excellent
raisin wine is made by employing cider in-
stead of water, and steeping in it the rai-
sins.

            RAISIN WINE, NO.                      2
  Five pounds of raisins, four gallons of
water.     Put them into a cask.                Mash for a
fortnight, frequently stirring,                and leave the
bung      loose    until    the       active   fermentation
ceases;       add one and one-half pints
            then
brandy. Well mix, and let it stand till fine.
The quantity of raisins and brandy may be
altered to suit.


            RAISIN WINE, NO.                      3
  Take two gallons of spring water, and let
it boil half an hour   then put into a stein
                             ;


pot   two pounds of raisins stoned, two
pounds of sugar, the rind of two lemons,
and the juice of four lemons then pour the;


boiling water on the things in the stein, and
                              91
          ^mit M^^t Wiinm
let it stand covered four or five days.           Strain
itout and bottle it up   in fifteen or sixteen
                                ;


days it will be fit to drink. It is a very
pleasant drink in hot weather.


       RAISIN WINE              WITH SUGAR
     To every gallon of soft water four pounds
of fresh raisins ;     put them in a large tub
stir frequently,      and keep it covered with a
sack or blanket. In about a fortnight the
fermentation will begin to subside; this may
be known by the raisins remaining still.
Then press the fruit and strain the liquor.
Have ready a wine cask, perfectly dry and
warm, allowing for each gallon one or one
and one-half pounds of Lisbon sugar; put
this   into   a cask with the strained liquor.
When        full, stir well the sugar and
          half
liquor,and put in one-half pint of thick
yeast; then fill up with the liquor, and con-
tinue to do so while the fermentation lasts,
Tyhich will be a month or more.


 RAISIN WINE IN IMITATION OF
                   FRONTIGNAC
     For every gallon of wine required allow
two pounds of raisins       ;       boil   them one hour
in water.        Strain the boiling liquor on loaf
sugar, two pounds for every gallon;                  stir
                          92
         ^oMt i^aSe WLintu
it   well together.   When cool put it in the
cask with a moderate quantity of yeast (as
last article). When the fermentation sub-
sides,suspend in the cask a muslin bag con-
taining elder-flowers, in the proportion of
one quart to three gallons of wine. When
perfectly clear, draw off the wine into bot-
tles.



      TO MAKE RASPBERRY WINE
     Take your quantity    of raspberries and
bruise    them, put them in an open pot
twenty-four hours     ; then squeeze out the
juice, and to every gallon of the juice put
three pounds of fine sugar, two quarts of
canary.   Put it into a stein or vessel, and
when it has done working stop it close;
when it is fine, bottle it. It must stand two
months before you drink it.


         RASPBERRY WINE, NO. 2
  Take three pounds of raisins, wash, clean,
and stone them thoroughly. Boil two gal-
lons of spring water for half an hour; as
soon as it is taken off the fire pour it into
a deep stone jar, and put in the raisins,
with six quarts of raspberries and two
pounds of loaf sugar. Stir it well together,
and cover them closely and set it in a cool
                          93
          Il^oine iHaftt Wiimn

place;     stir    it   twice    a day, then pass           it

through a            Put the hquor into a
                  sieve.

close vessel, adding one pound more of loaf
sugar; let it stand for a day and a night
to   settle,   after     which bottle       it,    adding a
little   more sugar.


         RASPBERRY WINE, NO.                           3
     Pound your         fruit   and strain        it   through
a cloth;       then boil as          much water as juice
of raspberries, and when it is cold put it to
your squeezings. Let it stand together five
hours, then strain it and mix it with the
juice, adding to every gallon of this liquor
two and one-half pounds of fine sugar.
Let it stand in an earthen vessel close cov-
ered a week, then put it in a vessel fit for
it, and let it stand a month, or till it is fine

bottle it off.


         RASPBERRY WINE,                    NO. 4
    Take two gallons of raspberries, and put
them in an earthen pot then take two gal-
                                     ;


lons of water, boil it two hours, let it stand
till it is blood-warm, put it to the raspber-

ries, and stir them well together;        let it

stand twelve hours. Then strain it off, and
to every gallon of liquor put three pounds
of loaf sugar.    Set it over a clear fire, and
                                94
                   fl^oMt i^alTf miinm

    let it boil till all the scum is taken off.   When
    it   is    put it into bottles and open the
                  cold,
    corks every day for a fortnight, and then
    stop them close.

                    RASPBERRY VINEGAR
         This may be made either by boiling down
    the juice with an equal weight of sugar, the
     same as for jelly, and then mixing it with
     an equal quantity of distilled vinegar, to be
    bottled with a glass of brandy in each bot-
"
    tie; or, in a china bowl or stone jar (free
    from metallic glaze) steep a quart of fresh-
    gathered raspberries in two quarts of the
    best white wine vinegar.     Next day strain
    the liquor on an equal quantity of fresh
    fruit, and the next day do the same.     After
    the third steeping of fruit, dip a jelly -bag
    in plain vinegar, to prevent waste, and
    strain the flavored vinegar through it into
    a stone jar. Allow to each pint of vinegar
    one pound of loaf sugar powdered. Stir in
    the sugar with a silver spoon, and, when
    dissolved, cover up the jar and set it in a
    kettle of water.  Keep it at boiling heat one
    hour   remove the scum. When cold, add to
              ;


    each pint a glass of brandy, and bottle it.
    This is a pleasant and useful drink in hot
    weather, or in sickness ; one pint of the vine-
    gar to eight of cold water.
                           95
          ^omt JWa?)fe Wiimu
              RHUBARB WINE
     To each gallon of juice add one gallon of
soft water, in  which seven pounds of brown
sugar have been dissolved. Fill a keg or a
barrel with this proportion, leaving the bung
out, and keep it filled with sweetened water
as   it   works   over   until   clear;   then   bung
down or bottle as you desire.    These stalks
will furnish about three-fourths their weight
in juice, or from sixteen hundred to two
thousand gallons of wine to each acre of
well cultivated plants.  Fill the barrels and
let them stand until spring, and bottle, as

any wine will be better in glass or stone.

          RHUBARB WINE, NO. 2
    Cut in bits and crush five pounds of rhu-
barb; add the thin yellow rind of a lemon,
and one gallon of water, and let stand cov-
ered two days. Strain off the liquid and add
four pounds of sugar. Put this into a small
cask with the bung-hole covered with mus-
lin, and let it work two or three days.



                  ROOT BEER
   Take one and one-half gallons of molasses,
add five gallons of water at 60° Fahr. Let
this stand two hours; then pour into a bar-
rel^ and add one-quarter pound powdered

                          96
          f^ome JWaptrr Wilmu
or bruised sassafras bark, one-quarter pound
powdered or bruised wintergreen bark, one-
quarter pound bruised sarsaparilla root, one-
half pint      yeast,   water enough to fill the
small barrel.        Ferment for twelve hours and
bottle.


                     ROSE WINE
  Take a well-glazed earthen vessel and put
into    it               of rose-water drawn
             three gallons
with a cold still.  Put into that a sufficient
quantity of rose-leaves, cover it close and set
it for an hour in a kettle or copper of hot

water, to take out the whole strength and
tincture of the roses;      and when cold press
the    rose-leaves    hard into the liquor, and
steep fresh ones in       it,   repeating   it   till   the
liquor has got the full strength of the roses.
To   every gallon of the liquor put three
pounds of loaf sugar, and stir it well, that
it may melt and disperse in every part.

Then put in a cask or convenient vessel to
ferment, and put in a piece of bread toast
hard and covered with yeast. Let it stand
for thirty days, when it will be ripe and
have a fine flavor, having the whole scent
and strength of the roses in it, and it may
be greatly improved by adding wine and
spices to it.  By this method of infusion,
wine of carnations, clove gilliflowers, violets,
                           97
          ^umt ^aJrt Wiimu
primroses,    or       any other        flower      having a
curious scent, may be made.


                   RUM SHRUB
  One gallon raisin wine, six pounds of
honey, ten gallons of good-flavored rum.


          TO MAKE SAGE WINE
      Boil five quarts of water one-quarter of
an hour, and when it is blood-Avarm put five
pounds of Malaga raisins, picked, rubbed,
and shred, into it with almost three and one-
quarter quarts of red sage shred, and a
little   of ale yeast.           Stir   all   well    together
and let it    stand in a tub covered warm six
.or   seven days ; then strain it off and put in
a runlet.    Let it work three or four days, and
then stop    it   up.        When it has stood six or
seven days put in a quart or two of Malaga
sherry, and when             it is fine,   bottle    it.




       SAGE WINE ANOTHER                             WAY
      Take six pounds of Malaga raisins picked
clean and shred small, and one peck of green
sage shr'ed small  then boil one gallon of
                         ;



water.  Let the water stand till it is luke-
warm, then put it in a tub to your sage and
raisins ;   let   it   stand     five   or six days, stir-
                                98
                                              ;




         IS^omt jmatre WLimu

ring it twice or thrice a day.    Then strain
and press the liquor from the ingredients,
put it in a cask, and let it stand six months
then draw it clean off into another vessel.
Bottle it in two days; in a month or six
weeks it will be fit to drink, but best when it
is   a year old.



 TO MAKE SARATOGA WINE OR
       ENGLISH SACK
     To every quart of water put a sprig of
rue, and to every gallon a handful of fennel
roots ; boil these half an hour, then strain it
out,  and to every gallon of this liquor put
three pounds of honey.     Boil it two hours,
and skim it well. When it is cold, pour it
off, and turn it into the vessel, or such cask

as is fit for it. Keep it a year in the vessel,
and then bottle it. It is a very good sack.


           SARSAPARILLA MEAD
  One-half pound of Spanish sarsaparilla.
Boil five hours, so as to strain off one gal-
lon.    Add eight pounds sugar, five ounces
of tartaric    acid.   One-quarter of a wine-
glass of syrup to one gill of water, and one-
quarter of a teaspoonful of soda water, is a
fair proportion for a drink.
                        99
        IS^omt JHatrt 2J2a^fnr!$

SCHIEDAM SCHNAPPS, TO IMITATE
  To two and one-half gallons good common
gin and five over proof, add one and one-half
pints strained honey, two and one-half pints
clear water, one-half pint white sugar syrup,
one-half pint spirits of nutmegs mixed with
the nitric ether, one-half pint orange-flower
water, one cup pure water, one-tenth ounce
acetic ether, one drop oil of wintergreen dis-
solved with the acetic ether.           Mix all the in-
gredients well;        if   necessary   fine   with alum
and salt of tartar.


 TO MAKE SCURVY -GRASS WINE
  Take the          best    large   scurvy-grass    tops
and leaves, in May, June, or July; bruise
them well in a stone mortar. Put them in a
well-glazed earthen vessel and sprinkle them
over with some powder of crystal of tartar;
then smear them with some virgin honey,
and being covered close let it stand twenty-
four hours.   Set water over a gentle fire,
putting to every gallon three pints of
honey, and when the scum rises, take it off
and   let   it     cool.    Then put      the   stamped
scurvy-grass into a barrel, and pour the
liquor to    it,    setting the vessel conveniently
edgeways, with a tap at the bottom. When
it has been infused twenty-four hours, draw

                             100
         H^ome iPtaire Wiinm
off the liquor,    strongly press the juice and
moisture out of the herb into the barrel or
vessel, and put the liquor up again.  Then
put a little new yeast to it, and suffer it to
ferment three days, covering the bung or
vent with a piece of bread spread over with
mustard-seed,   downward, in a cool place,
and let it continue till it is fine and drinks
brisk.   Drain off the finest part, leaving
only the dregs behind; afterward add more
herb and ferment it with whites of eggs,
flour, and fixed nitre, very nice, or the juice
of green grapes, if they are to be had, to
which add six pounds of syrup of mustard,
all mixed and well beaten together, to refine

it down, and it will drink brisk, but it is not

very pleasant, being here inserted among
artificial   wines rather for the sake of health
than for the delightfulness of its taste.




                    SHERBET
  In one quart of water boil six or eight
sticksof rhubarb ten minutes    strain the
                                       ;


boiling liquor on the thin-shaved rind of a
lemon.       Add two ounces of clarified sugar
with     a   wine-glass    of    brandy.   Stir   the
above, and let     it   stand five or six hours be-
fore using.
                           101
        H^i^me JWsae mLinm

                 SHERRY WINE
   To five gallons prepared cider add one
quart   spirits, three-quarters of    a pound of
raisins, three   quarts good sherry, and a few
drops   oilbitter almonds (dissolved in alco-
hol).  Let it stand ten days, and draw it off
carefully.   Fine it down, and again rack it
into another cask.



        LONDON SHERRY WINE
  Twelve pounds chopped raisins, three gal-
lons soft water, one    pound sugar, one-half
ounce white tartar, two quarts cider. Let
them stand together in a close vessel one
month; stir frequently.       Then add one
quart of spirits, one-quarter pound wild
cherries bruised.  Let them stand one month
longer and fine with isinglass.



              TO MAKE SHRUB
  Take two quarts of brandy, and put it in
a large bottle, adding to    it   the juice of five
lemons, the peels of two, and one-half a nut-
meg. Stop it up and let it stand three days,
and add to it three pints of white wine, one
and one-half pounds of sugar.        Mix it,
strain it twice through a flannel, and bottle
it up.   It is a pretty wine, and a cordial.
                       102
        ^omt i«a»e WLimu
               SPRUCE BEER
  Boll a handful of hops and two handfuls
of the chips of sassafras root, in ten gallons
of water.   Strain it, and turn on, while hot,
one gallon of molasses, two spoonfuls of the
essence of spruce, two spoonfuls of ginger,
one spoonful of pounded allspice.     Put it
into a cask, and when cold enough, add one-
half pint of good yeast.  Stir it well; stop
it close.   When clear, bottle and cork it.

       STRAWBERRY WINE, NO.                1

   Twelve gallons bruised strawberries, ten
gallons cider, seven gallons water, twenty-
five pounds sugar.   Ferment, then add one-
half ounce bruised orris root, one-half ounce
bruised   bitter  almonds,    one-half  ounce
bruised cloves, six ounces red tartar.


       STRAWBERRY WINE, NO.                 2

   Crush the berries and add one quart of
water to one gallon of berries and let stand
twenty-four hours. Strain and add two and
one-half pounds of white sugar to one gal-
lon of juice. Put in cask, with thin muslin
tacked over the bung-hole, and let ferment,
keeping it full from a quantity reserved for
the purpose.    If a small quantity is made,
 use   jugs   or   bottle.     When   fermentation
                         103
          IB^omt M^'Ot Wiinm

ceases, add one pint of good whiskey to the
gallon, and bottle and seal securely. Ready
for use in six weeks.


       ROYAL STRAWBERRY ACID
  Take three pounds of ripe strawberries,
two ounces of citric acid, and one quart of
spring      water.        Dissolve     the   acid   in   the
water, and pour it on the strawberries, and
let them stand in a cool place twenty-four

hours.    Then drain the liquid off, and pour
it    on three more pounds of fruit; let it
stand twenty-four hours.               Add to the liquid
its    own weight of         sugar';    boil it three or
four minutes in a porcelain-lined preserve-
kettle, lest metal may affect the taste, and
when cool cork it in bottles lightly for three
days, then tightly, and seal them. Keep in
a dry and cool place.     It is delicious for
sick and well.



          TO MAKE SUGAR WINE
      Boil five   and one-half quarts          of   spring
water a quarter of an hour, and when it is
blood-warm put five pounds of Malaga rai-
sins picked, rubbed, and shred into it, with
five    quarts of    rfed    sage shred and one-half
cup of ale yeast      ;     stir all well together,      and
let it    stand in a tub covered             warm six or
                              104
           H^oine J«a3fr Wiim»

seven days, stirring             it     once a day.     Then
strain     it   out and put        it   in a runlet;    let it
work three or four days, and stop                      it   up.
When it has stood six or seven days, put in
a quart or two of Malaga sack, and when it
is fine,    bottle      it.



TEARS OF THE WIDOW OF MALA-
            BAR
   Five quarts of plain spirit at 18°, one-half
ounce bruised cloves, forty-eight grains
bruised mace.     Digest in a corked carboy
for a week, add burnt sugar to impart a
slight color, filter, and add four and one-
half pounds white sugar, dissolved in one-
half gallon of distilled or filtered rain water.
Some add two              or three ounces of orange-
flower water.            A pleasant liquor.
                   TOMATO WINE
   Take         ripe,    fresh    tomatoes,     mash very
fine,   strain through a fine sieve, sweeten with
good sugar to suit the taste, set it away
in an earthen or glass vessel, nearly full,
cover tight, with the exception of a small
hole for the refuse to work off through dur-
ing its fermentation. When it is done fer-
menting, it will become pure and clear.
Then bottle and cork tight. A little salt
improves its flavor; age improves it.
                                 105
         ^mm JMatre WLinm
               TOMATO BEER
   Gather the fruit once a week, stem, wash,
and mash it. Strain through a coarse Hnen
bag, and to every gallon of the juice add one
pound of good moist brown sugar. Let it
stand nine days, and then pour it off from
the pulp, which will settle in the bottom of
the jar.  Bottle it closely, and the longer
you keep it the better it is when you want
to use it. Take a pitcher that will hold as
much as you want to use,         —
                            for my family
I use a gallon pitcher,      —   fill   it   nearly full
of fresh sweetened water,  add some of the
preparation already described, and a few
drops of essence of lemon, and you will find
it   equal to the best lemonade, costing almost
nothing.     To   every   gallon        of    sweetened
water I add one-half tumbler of beer.


        TO MAKE TURNIP WINE
   Pare and slice a number of turnips, put
them into a cider-press and press out all the
juice.   To every gallon of juice add three
pounds of lump sugar. Have a vessel ready
large enough to hold the juice, and put one-
half pint of brandy to every gallon.     Pour
in the juice and lay something over the bung
for a week   — to see if it works  if it does,
                                         ;



do not bung it up until it is done working.
                       106
           ^mm JWatrt WLintu
Then stop it close for three months, and
draw it off into another vessel. When it is
fine, bottle it.



           WALNUT MEAD WINE
   To every gallon of water put three and
one-half pounds of honey, and boil them to-
gether three-quarters of an hour.                 Then to
every gallon of liquor put about two dozen
of walnut leaves;     pour boiling liquor upon
them and     let   stand    all   night.     Then take
out the leaves      and put        in    a spoonful of
yeast, and let it stand for two or three days.
Then make it up, and after it has stood for
three months, bottle        it.



  WHORTLEBERRY OR BILBERRY
            WINE
   Take one and       one-half          gallons   of    cold
soft water, one     and one-half gallons               cider,
two gallons berries.    Ferment.    Mix five
pounds sugar, four-fifths ounce tartar in
fine powder; add four-fifths ounce ginger in
powder, one-half handful lavender and rose-
mary leaves, one and two-thirds pints British
spirits.




                           107
BRANDIES
                 APPLE BRANDY
  Take seven gallons of water and boil one-
half,   putting the other into a barrel;             add
the boiling water to the cold, with one-half
gallon of molasses and a little yeast.              Keep
the     bung-hole          open    until   fermentation
ceases.

            OLD APPLE BRANDY
  One gallon          of    neutral   spirits,   one-half
cup of decoction of           tea,    one and one-half
pints of alcoholic solution            of starch, one-
eighth ounce of sulphuric acid.             This is fla-
vored with one-fourth ounce of the                 oil    of
apples.     Color with one ounce of sugar                col-
oring.

           BLACKBERRY BRANDY
  One-quarter pound essence of blackberry,
one quart blackberry juice, one-quarter
pound of gum arabic, one small barrel pure
spirits.

                CARAWAY BRANDY
   Steep one ounce of caraway-seed and six
ounces  of loaf sugar with one quart of
brandy.         Let   it   stand nine days and then
draw     off.

                             Ill
           ^omt iWa5fe miint^
          BLACK CHERRY BRANDY
    Stone two pounds of black cherries and
put on them one quart of brandy. Bruise
the stones in a mortar, and then add them
to the brandy.      Cover them close and let
them stand a month or six weeks. Then
pour* it clear from the sediment and bottle
it.   Morello cherries, managed in this way,
make a fine cordial.

          CHERRY BRANDY,                     NO.    1
       For this purpose use either morello cher-
ries or small black cherries.              Pick them from
the stalks ;      fill   the bottles nearly up to the
necks, then fill up with brandy (some people
use whiskey, gin, or spirit distilled from the
lees of the wine).          In three weeks or a month
strain off the spirit;to each quart add one
pound       of   sugar clarified, and flavor
                  loaf
with tincture of cinnamon or cloves.


          CHERRY BRANDY, NO. 2
  One of the best and most common ways of
making cherry brandy is to put the cherries
(being first clean picked from the stalks)
into a vessel       till   it   be about half-full; then
fill    up with rectified molasses brandy, which
is     generally used           for this   compound, and
when       they    have         been   infused   sixteen   or
                                 112
         ^onxt JWaar WLUuu
eighteen days,    draw off the liquor by de-

grees, as wanted.    Wlien drawn off, fill the
vessel a second time nearly to the top, let it
stand about a month, and then draw it off
as there is occasion. ,The same cherries may
be used a third time by covering them with
overproof brandy and letting it infuse for
six or seven weeks. When drawn off for use,
as much water must be added as the brandy
was overproof, and the cherries must be af-
terward pressed as long as any liquor re-
mains in them before being cast away.
When drawn off the second time, the liquor
willbe somewhat inferior to the first, when
more sugar, with a very little cinnamon and
cloves beaten,   may be added.


       CHERRY BRANDY, NO. 3
  To every five gallons of brandy made by
the recipe for French brandy add one and
one-half quarts of wild black cherries,
stones and all bruised, one pound of crushed
sugar.   Let it stand for one week, then draw
or rack it off as it is wanted for use.
  2. Two gallons good whiskey, one quart
wild black berries, well bruised with stones
broken, one pound common almonds, shelled,
one-tenth ounce white sugar, one-tenth ounce
cinnamon, one-tenth ounce cloves, one-tenth
                         113
       ^omt JWaJre WLintu
ounce nutmeg, well bruised.   Mix, and let
them stand twelve days, and draw off.
This, with the addition of two gallons
brandy, makes most superior cherry brandy.


      CHERRY BRANDY, NO. 4
  To every four quarts of brandy put four
pounds of red cherries, two pounds of black,
one quart of raspberries, with a few cloves,
a stick of cinnamon, and a little orange
peel.  Let these stand a month close
stopped; then bottle it off, putting a lump
of sugar into every bottle.


      CHERRY BRANDY, NO. 5
    Take twelve pounds of cherries, half red
and half black, mash or squeeze them to
pieces with the hands, and add to them two
quarts of brandy, letting them steep for
twenty-four hours.    Then put the mashed
cherries and liquor into a canvas bag, a
little at a time, and press it as long as it

will run.  Sweeten it with loaf sugar and let
it stand a month; then bottle it off, putting

a lump of sugar in every bottle.


           LEMON BRANDY
  Put two and one-half quarts of water in
one-half gallon of brandy. Take one dozen
                     114
            Jl^omt JWaire WLint^

of lemons, one pound of the best sugar, and
one and one-half pints of milk.    Pare the
lemons very thin, and lay the peel to steep
in the brandy twelve hours.    Squeeze the
lemons upon  the sugar, then put  the water
to     and mix all the ingredients together.
      it,

Boil the milk and pour it in boiling. Let it
stand twenty-four hours and then strain it.


                   ORANGE BRANDY
                 of six Seville oranges in
      Put the chips
one quart of brandy, and let them steep a
fortnight in a stone bottle close stopped.
Boil        two and two-thirds pints of   spring
water with eight ounces of the finest sugar,
nearly an hour, very gently.    Clarify the
water and sugar with the white of an egg;
then strain it through a jelly-bag, and boil
itnearly half-away. When it is cold, strain
the brandy into the syrup.


                   POPPY BRANDY
      Take six quarts of the best and freshest
 poppies, cut off the black ends, put them in
 a glass jar that will hold two gallons, and
 press them in it, then pour over a gallon of
 brandy.  Tightly cover the glass jar and set
 it    in   sun for a week or more, then
             the
 squeeze out the poppies with your hand, and
                          115
         Womt JWatrt Wiimn
sweeten the liquor to taste, adding an ounce
and a half of alkermes.            Mix it well and bot-
tle it   up.


               RASPBERRY BRANDY
  Raspberry brandy is infused nearly after
the  same manner as cherry brandy, and
drawn off with about the same addition of
brandy to what is drawn off from the first,
second, and third infusion, and dulcified ac-
cordingly,      first   making it of a bright deep
color, omitting         cinnamon and cloves      in the
first,but not in the second and third infu-
sion.  The second infusion will be somewhat
paler than the first, and must be lightened
in color by adding one pint cherry brandy,
with five or more gallons of raspberry
brandy, and the third infusion will require
more cherry brandy to color it. It may be
flavored with the juice of elderberry.



      RASPBERRY BRANDY, NO.                          2
  Take a pint of water and two quarts of
brandy, and put them into a pitcher large
enough to hold them and four pints of rasp-
berries.        Put     in   one-half   pound   of       loaf
sugar, and        remain for a week close
                  let   it

covered.  Then take a piece of flannel with
a piece of holland over it, and let it run
                              no
                                                  ;




       |I?oine JSlaJrr       Wiinm
tlirough by degrees.    It may be racked into
other bottles a week after, and then      it   will
be perfectly fine.


    RASPBERRY BRANDY,               NO. 3
  Scald the fruit in a stone jar set in a
kettle of water, or   on a hot hearth.    When
the juice will run freely, strain   it   without
pressing.   To every quart of juice allow one
pound of loaf sugar. Boil it up and skim
when quite clear pour out, and when cold
add an equal quantity of brandy.          Shake
them well together and bottle.




                       117
CORDIALS
                     CORDIALS
     To filter cordials, cover the bottom of a
sieve    with clean blotting-paper.             Pour the
liquor into    it   (having    set     a vessel under-
neath to receive it), and let drip through the
paper and through the sieve.    Renew the
paper frequently and fasten it down with
pins. This process is slow, but makes the
liquor beautifully clear.


     TO MAKE ANISE - SEED CORDIAL
     Take   one-half   pound bruised           anise-seed,
three    gallons    proof     one quart of
                             spirit,
water. Draw off two gallons, with a moder-
ate fire. This water should never be reduced
below proof, because the large quantity of
oil with which it is impregnated will render

it milky and foul when brought down below
proof.  But if there is a necessity for doing
this the transparency may be restored by
filtration.


            BLACKBERRY CORDIAL
     Mash and       strain   the     berries     through
sieve.   To one gallon of juice put one pound
                         121
         ^omt matrt Wiimn
of sugar.  Boil and add one tablespoon of
        one tablespoon of cloves. Cook till
allspice,
thick. When nearly cold add one quart of
whiskey or brandy. Bottle and seal.


   BLACKBERRY CORDIAL, NO. 2
  To one gallon of blackberry juice add
four pounds of white sugar; boil and skim
off.  Then add one ounce of cloves, one
ounce of cinnamon, ten grated nutmegs, and
boil   down till quite rich.     Then let it cool
and settle. Afterward drain off, and add one
pint of good brandy or whiskey.


            CARAWAY CORDIAL
  Take one teaspoonful of oil of caraway,
four drops of cassia-lignea oil, one drop of
essence of orange peel, one drop of essence
of lemon, five quarts and a gill of spirits,
one and three-fourths pounds of loaf sugar.
Make it up and fine it down.

       CARAWAY CORDIAL, NO. 2
  Take one      gallon fifty per cent,     spirit,
one-eighth ounce oil of caraway, which you
dissolve in ninety-five per cent,     spirit,   one
pound sugar, one pound water.       Dissolve
your sugar in the water mix, stir, and filter.
                             ;


                       122
          IS^omt jna9e Wiimu

                CEDRAT CORDIAL
   The cedrat is a species of citron, and very
highly    esteemed in Italy,        where   it    grows
naturally.       The fruit is difficult to be pro-
cured in this country, but as the essential
oil isoften imported from Italy, it may be
made as        follows:    Take two ounces of the
finest loaf     sugar, powdered.    Put it into a
glass mortar, with sixty drops of the essence
of cedrat; rub them together with a glass
pestle,and put them into a glass alembic
with two quarts of fine proof spirit and one
pint of water.          Place the alembic in a bath,
heat and draw off one-half gallon, or                  till

the feints begin to rise;         then dulcify with
fine   sugar.
   This   is    considered the finest cordial yet
known;     it will     therefore be necessary to be
particularly careful that the spirit             is   per-
fectly clean,         and as much as possible         free
from any flavor of its own.


           CINNAMON CORDIAL
  This is seldom made with cinnamon, but
with either the essential oil or bark of
cassia.    It    is   preferred colored, and there-
fore may be well prepared by simple fermen-
tation.    If the oil be used, one     dram will be
found enough for two or three gallons of
                            123
           ?l^otn^ i[»atr(            2i!Sifntsi


spirit.     The addition of two or three drops
each of essence of lemon and orange peel,
with about a spoonful of essence of carda-
moms to each gallon, will improve it.                 Some
persons      add   to       the    above   quantity    one
dram of cardamom seeds and one ounce each
of dried orange and lemon peel. One ounce
of   oil   of cassia   is   considered to be equal to
eight pounds of the buds or bark. If wanted
dark, it may be colored with burnt sugar.
The quantity of sugar is one and one-half
pounds to the gallon.


     STRONG CINNAMON CORDIAL
   Take one pound of fine cinnamon bruised,
two gallons of clear rectified spirit, and one
pint of water. Put them into the still, and
digest them twenty-four hours with a gentle
heat, after which draw off by a pretty
strong heat.

               CITRON CORDIAL
     Takesix ounces of dry yellow rinds of
citrons, two ounces of orange peel, one and
one-half ounces bruised nutmegs, five quarts
of proof spirit, one pint water.    Digest
with a gentle heat, then draw off ten gal-
lons in a bath;         heat,     and dulcify with fine
sugar.
                             124
        ^omt JWalre amines
        CITRON CORDIAL, NO.                 2

  One-half      pound yellow    rind   of   citrons,

two    ounces  orange   peel,          ounce
                                one-third
bruised nutmegs,   two  and one-sixth gallons

proof spirit; distill or macerate, add water
sufficient, and one-half pound of fine
                                        lump
sugar for every gallon of the cordial.


                CLOVE CORDIAL
  Take one-quarter      of a    pound of        cloves,

bruised, one ounce pimento, or allspice, two
gallons proof spirit.   Digest the mixture
twelve hours in a gentle heat, and then draw
off with a pretty brisk fire. The water may
be colored red, either by strong tincture of
cochineal, alkanet, or corn poppy-flowers.
It may be dulcified at pleasure with
                                       refined

sugar.


         CLOVE CORDIAL, NO.                 «
   One-quarter ounce bruised cloves, or one-
quarter dram essential oil, to every gal-
lon of proof spirit.  If distilled, it should

 be drawn over with a pretty quick fire. It
 is preferred of a very deep
                                color, and is

 therefore strongly colored with  poppy-flow-
 ers   or cochineal,   or more    commonly with
 brandy coloring, or red sanders wood. It
 should have three pounds of sugar to the
                        125
       ^omt iWatrt WLint^
gallon, and this need not be very fine.                The
addition   of   one-quarter        dram   of    bruised
pimento, or two drops of the oil for every
ounce of cloves, improves this cordial.



           CORIANDER CORDIAL
  One-third     pound     coriander       seeds,       one-
third ounce of caraways, and the peel and
juice of one-half orange to every gallon of
proof spirit.



            GINGER CORDIAL
  Pick one pound of large white currants
from their stalks, lay them in a basin, and
strew over them the rind of an orange and
a lemon cut very thin, or one-half teaspoon-
ful of essence of lemon,       and one ounce and
one-half of the best ground ginger, and one
quart of good whiskey.      Let all lie for
twenty-four hours. If it taste strong of the
ginger, then strain it;       if   not, let   it lie   for
twelve hours    longer.       To    every quart of
strained juice add one pound of loaf sugar
pounded.    When    thesugar is quite dis-
solved, and the liquor appears clear, bottle
it.   This cordial is also extremely good
made with raspberries instead of currants.
                        126
          I^otne J«atre amines

             GOLD CORDIAL
   Take one pound of the roots of angelica,
sliced, two ounces caraway seeds, two ounces
cinnamon, a few cloves, one-quarter pound
figs sliced, one-quarter pound licorice root
sliced, two and three-quarters gallons proof
spirit, one-half gallon water.   Digest two
days and draw off by a gentle heat till the
feints begin to rise; hanging in a piece of
linen, fastened to the mouth of the worm
one-quarter ounce of English saffron. Then
dissolve two pounds of sugar in one and
one-half pints of rose-water, and add to it
the distilled liquor. The above cordial de-
rives its name from a quantity of leaf gold
being formerly added to it, but this is now
generally disused.



          LEMON CORDIAL, NO. 1
   Pare off very thin the yellow rind of
some fine lemons. Cut the lemons in half
and squeeze out the juice. To each pint of
the juice allow one-half pound of loaf sugar.
Mix the juice, the peel, and the sugar to-
gether.   Cover it and let it set twenty-four
hours. Then mix it with an equal quantity
of white brandy. Put it into a jug, and let
it set a month.  Then strain through a linen
                     127
       ^omt JUatre Wiimn
bag and afterward through blotting-paper
before you bottle it.


       LEMON CORDIAL, NO. 2
   Take one pound of dried lemon peel, two
and one-quarter gallons proof spirit, one
quart water.    Draw off two gallons by a
gentle fire, and dulcify with fine sugar.


        LIME JUICE CORDIAL
   Lime juice cordial that will keep good for
any length of time may be made as follows
six pounds sugar, four pints water, four
ounces citric acid, one-half ounce boric acid.
Dissolve by the aid of a gentle heat, and
when cold add sixty ounces refined lime juice,
four ounces tincture of lemon peel, water to
make up two gallons.

           LOVAGE CORDIAL
  Take two-thirds ounce of the fresh roots
of lovage, two-thirds ounce of valerian, two-
thirds ounce of celery, two-thirds ounce of
sweet fennel, one-sixth ounce of essential   oil

of caraway, one-sixth ounce of savin, two-
thirds of a cup spirit of wine, two gallons
proof spirit, two pounds of loaf sugar. Steep
the roots and seeds in the spirits for four-
teen days ; then dissolve the oils in the spirit
                        128
        ^omt M^^t WLimn
of wine, and add them to the undulcified cor-
dial   drawn    off   from the other ingredients.
Dissolve the sugar in the water for making,
and fine, if necessary, with alum.



               NOYAU CORDIAL
  Blanch and pound very fine two pounds
of the best bitter almonds and one-half
pound    of    sweet almonds.       Add the thinly
pared rind of two lemons, three tablespoon-
fuls   of boiled milkwhich has become cold.
Put all together into a jar, and add two
quarts of old whiskey. Cork up the jar, and
let it stand for six weeks, shaking the jar

every day.   At the end of that time strain
the liquor, and to every quart of the liquor
add three pints of clarified syrup, and filter
through blotting-paper. The almonds that
are strained from the hquor make a nice fla-
voring for puddings, by putting them into
a wide-mouthed bottle and pouring whiskey
over them.


               ORANGE CORDIAL
   Take five pounds        of the yellow part of
fresh orange peel, ten          and one-half gallons
of proof spirit, two gallons of water.        Draw
off ten gallons, with a gentle fire.
                          129
        Ik^mt JWaJe WLimu
   PEPPERMINT CORDIAL, NO.                 1

   Take one gallon and a gill of rectified
spirits, one pound of loaf sugar, one table-
spoonful of wine, oil of peppermint to taste,
water, as   much as will fill the cask, which
should be set upon end after the whole has
been well roused, and a cock for drawing off
placed in it.



   PEPPERMINT CORDIAL,             NO. 2
  One gallon of rectified spirits, one in five
under hydrometer proof, one pound of loaf
sugar, one tablespoonful of spirits of wine,
one and one-third pennyweights      of   oil   of
peppermint, and as much water as will          fill

up the cask, which should be set on end.


            QUINCE CORDIAL
   Pare your quinces, and scrape them to the
core.  Put all the scrapings into a tureen,
and see that there are no seeds among them.
Let the scrapings remain covered in the
tureen for two days; then put them into a
linen bag and squeeze out all the juice.
Measure it and mix it with an equal quantity
of white brandy.    To each pint of the mix-
ture add one-half pound of loaf sugar and
                      130
          Jl^omt Jttatre WLinm

a       cinnamon and cloves. Put it into
     little

a jug and let it infuse for two months. Drain
it through blotting-paper and then bottle

it. This cordial improves with age and is
excellent.



                ROSE CORDIAL
     Take one pound of the leaves of full-blown
red roses.   Put them into one quart of luke-
warm water, and let them infuse for two days
in    a   covered   vessel.         Then squeeze them
through a linen bag, to press out all the
liquid, and take as much white brandy as
you have of the decoction of roses. To one
pint of the infusion add one-half pound of
loaf sugar, and a very small quantity of co-
riander and cinnamon. Put in a jug and let
it set for two weeks, then filter it through

blotting-paper, and put it into bottles.



              RASPBERRY CORDIAL
     Take one quart       of raspberry juice      and
one-half pint of cherry juice, the fruit hav-
ing been squeezed through a linen bag after
the cherries have been stoned. Mix the juices
together, and dissolve in them two pounds
of loaf sugar.     Then add two quarts of
French brandy.         Put it into a jug and let
                              131
         Jl^oMt JMalrr WS^lntu

it   stand five weeks.    Afterward strain it and
bottle for use.


STRAWBERRY OR RASPBERRY COR-
                         DIAL
   Sugar down the berries overnight, using
more sugar than you would for the table,
about half as much again. In the morning
lay them in a hair sieve over the basin      let;


them remain until evening, so as to thor-
oughly drain. Then put the juice in a thick
flannel bag  let it drain all night, being care-
              ;


ful not to squeeze       it,   as that takes out the
brightness and clearness.          All this should be
done in a cool cellar, or it will be apt to sour.
Add brandy in the proportion of one-third
the quantity of juice, and as much more
sugar as the taste demands.            Bottle it
tightly. It will keep six or eight years, and
is better at last than at first.




            WHISKEY CORDIAL
     Take one ounce of cinnamon, one ounce of
ginger, one ounce of coriander seed, one-half
ounce of mace, one-half ounce of cloves, one-
half ounce of cubebs.  Add three gallons of
proof spirit and two and one-half quarts of
water, and distill.      Now tie up one and one-
third ounces of English saffron, one          pound
                           1^9
       I^oitte iWatre WLlmu

of raisins (stoned), one      pound dates, three
ounces licorice root.  Let these stand twelve
hours in two and one-half quarts of water;
strain, and add it to the above.  Dulcify the
whole with fine sugar.




                        133
LIQUEURS
       ANISETTE DE BOURDEAUX
     Take nine ounces sugar, six drops aniseed.
Rub them together, and add, by degrees, two
pints spirits of wine, four pints water.              Fil-
ter.


         CREME DES BARBADOES
     Take one dozen middling              sized    lemons,
three large     citrons,      pounds loaf
                            fourteen
sugar, one-quarter pound fresh balm leaves,
five   quarts spirits of wine, seven quarts of
water.   Cut lemons and citrons in thin slices
and put them into a cask, pour upon them
the spirit of wine, bung down close, and let
it   stand ten days or a fortnight         ;   then break
the sugar, and boil        it    for one-half hour in
the water, skimming             it   frequently.     Then
chop the balm leaves, put them into a large
pan, and pour upon them the boiling liquor,
and let it stand till quite cold; then strain
it through a lawn sieve, and put it to the

spirits, etc., in the cask.          Bung down close,
and in a fortnight draw it oif. Strain it
through a jelly-bag and let remain to fine;
then bottle it.
                           137
         i^oine M^'Ot WLirn^

 CREME DE NOYAU DE MARTI-
                            NIQUE
  Take twenty pounds of loaf sugar, three
gallons       of   spirit   of    wine,        three   pints   of
orange-flower         one and one-quarter
                      water,
pounds of bitter almonds, two drams of es-
sence of lemon, four and one-half gallons
of water. The produce will exceed eight gal-
lons. Put two pounds of the loaf sugar into
a jug or can, pour upon                   it    the essence of
lemon, and one quart of the spirit of wine.
Stir   till   the sugar      is   dissolved,      and the es-
sence completely incorporated.                     Bruise the
almonds and put them into a four-gallon
stone bottle or cask, add the remainder of the
spirit of wine, and the mixture from the jug
oi" can.   Let it stand a week or ten days,
shaking it frequently.     Then add the re-
mainder of the sugar, and boil it in the
four and one-half gallons of water for three-
quarters of an hour, taking oif the scum as
it rises.  When cold, put it in a cask; add
the spirit, almonds, etc., from the stone bot-
tle, and lastly the orange-water.     Bung it
down close and let it stand three weeks or a
month; then strain it off in a jelly -bag, and
when fine, bottle it off. When the pink is
wanted, add cochineal, in powder, at the rate
of one-half dram or two scruples to one
quart.
                               138
         J^omt JWaire Wiinm
 CREME D'ORANGE OF SUPERIOR
                    FLAVOR
  Take one dozen middling        sized oranges,

one and one-quarter pints orange-flower
                                        wa-
ter,    six   pounds loaf sugar, two and two-
thirds quarts spirit of wine, one-half
                                       ounce
tincture of saffron,   four  and  two-thirds

quarts water. Cut the oranges in slices, put
them in a cask, add the spirit and orange-
flower water, let it stand a fortnight.
                                          Then
     the sugar in the water  for one-half hour,
boil
pour it out, and let it stand till cold; then
add it to the mixture in the cask, and put in
the tincture of saffron. Let it remain a
                                         fort-
                       strain, and proceed  as
night longer; then
directed in the recipe    for  Creme  de Bar-
                                        pro-
badoes, and a very fine cordial will be
duced.

              EAU DE BARBADOES
  Take one ounce of fresh orange peel, four
ounces of fresh lemon peel, one dram
                                       cori-

ander, four pints ^roof spirit. Distill in
                                           a
bath heat, and add white sugar in powder.

               EAU DE BIGARADE
       Take the outer or yellow part of the peels
                                        one-
 of seven bigarades (a kind of orange),
 quarter .ounce of nutmegs, one-eighth ounce
 of mace, one-half gallon of fine proof
                                           spirit,

                         139
         ^mxt iWaat Wiimu
one quart of water.     Digest all these to-
gether two days in a close vessel, after which
draw off a gallon with a gentle fire, and dul-
cify with fine sugar.


                 EAU DEVINE
   Take      one-half gallon of spirit of wine,
one-half dram essence of lemons and one-half
dram essence of bergamot.      Distill in a bath
heat, add two pounds sugar, dissolved in one
gallon of pure water, and lastly two and one-
half ounces of orange-flower water.


              ELEPHANT'S MILK
  Take two ounces gum benzoin, one pint
spirit of wine, two and one-half pints boiling
water.    When cold, strain and add one and
one-half pounds sugar.


              HUILE DE VENUS
  Take six ounces of flowers of wild carrot,
picked, ten pints spirit of wine.     Distill in
a bath heat.   To the spirit add as much
syrup of capillaire; it may be colored with
cochineal.
                 LIGNODELLA
  Take the thin peel of three oranges and
three lemons; steep them in one-half gallon
of brandy or rum, close stopped for two or
                        140
                                                          ;




        |i^0mr J^aSye Wiimu

three days.      Then take three quarts of water
and one and one-half pounds of loaf sugar
clarified with the whites of two eggs. Let
it    boil   one-quarter     hour,   then       strain   it

through a fine sieve, and let it stand till cold
strain the brandy with the peels, add the
juice of three oranges and five lemons to
each gallon.      Keep it close stopped up five
weeks, then bottle     it.




                  MARASCHINO
     One gallon proof v/hiskey, two quarts of
water, dissolve four pounds of sugar, one-
third dram oil of bergamot, one-third               dram
             two drops oil of cinnamon, two-
oil of cloves,

thirds ounce of nutmegs, bruised, five ounces
of orange peel, one ounce of bitter almonds,
bruised, one-third    dram oil of lemon.             Dis-
solve the oil in alcohol;        color with cochineal
and burnt sugar.


      MARASQUIN DE GROSEILLES
     Take eight and one-half pounds of goose-
berries, quite ripe, one  pound black cherry
leaves.      Bruise and ferment;      distill   and rec-
tify the spirits.    To each pint of this spirit
add as much distilled water, and one pound
of sugar.
                           141
         IB^oMt JWa5t WLinm

                      NECTAR
  Take three gallons of red ratafia, one-
quarter ounce of cassia-oil, and an equal
quantity of the oil of caraway seeds. Dis-
solve in a little spirit of wine, and make
up with orange wine so as to fill up the jug.
Sweeten, if wanted, by adding a small lump
of sugar in the glass.


                       NOYAU
  Take one and one-half gallons of French
brandy, one in five, six ounces of the best
French prune's, two ounces of celery, three
ounces of the kernels of apricots, nectarines,
and peaches, and one ounce of bitter almonds,
all gently bruised, two pennyweights of es-

sence of orange peel, two pennyweights of
essence of lemon peel, one and one-half pounds
of loaf sugar. Let the whole stand ten days
or a fortnight.Then draw off, and add to
the clearnoyau as much rose-water as will
make up to two gallons.

                      RATAFIA
   This is a liquor prepared from different
kinds of fruits, and is of different colors, ac-
cording to the fruits made use of.      These
fruits should be gathered when in their great-
est     perfection,   and the largest and most
                         142
         filotne J^a^rr WLintu

beautiful of     them chosen for the purpose.
The following is the method for making red
ratafia, fine and soft: Take twelve pounds
of the black-heart cherries, two pounds black
cherries, one and one-half pounds raspber-
ries, one and one-half pounds strawberries.

Pick the fruit from their stalks, and bruise
them, in which state let them continue twelve
hours; then press out the juice, and to every
pint of    it   add one-half pound of sugar.
When the sugar is dissolved, run the whole
through the filtering-bag, and add to               it

three pints of proof spirit. Then take two
ounces of cinnamon, two ounces mace, one
dram cloves.      Bruise these spices, put them
into an alembic with one-half gallon of proof
spiritand one quart of water, and draw off
a gallon with a brisk fire. Add as much of
the spicy spirit to the red ratafia as will
render it agreeable ; about one-quarter is the
usual proportion.



                RATAFIA, NO.            2
   Ratafia      may be made with the juice of
any fruit. Take six quarts cherry juice and
two pounds sugar, which you dissolve in the
juice.  Steep in five quarts brandy ten days.
One dram cinnamon,             twelve   cloves,   eight
ounces    peach    leaves,   four   ounces    bruised
                         143
         ^mm J^alsre WLinm
cherry kernels.    Filter, mix both liquids, and
filter again.



                RATAFIA, NO.          3
   Take four ounces of nutmegs, five pounds
of bitter almonds, nine pounds Lisbon sugar,
five   grains ambergris.     Infuse these ingredi-
ents three days in five gallons of proof spirit,
and filter it through a flannel bag for use.
The nutmegs and bitter almonds must be
bruised, and the ambergris rubbed with the
Lisbon sugar in a marble mortar, before they
are infused in the spirit.


          RATAFIA D'ANGELIQUE
   Take one-half dram of angelica seed, two
ounces stalks of angelica, two ounces bitter
almonds, blanched, six pints proof spirit, one
pound white sugar.         Digest, strain, and fil-
ter.


   RATAFIA DE BRON DE NOIX
   Take sixty young walnuts whose shells are
not yet hardened, four pints brandy, twelve
ounces sugar, fifteen grains mace, fifteen
grains cinnamon, fifteen grains cloves.        Di-
gest for two or three months, press out the
liquor, filter,   and keep    it   for two or three
years.
                       144
         y^omt JHatre Wiinm
  TO MAKE RATAFIA DE CAFE
  Take    one-half   pound   of   roasted coffee,
ground, two quarts proof spirit, ten ounces
sugar.    Digest for a week.


          RATAFIA DE CASSIS
  Take three pounds of ripe black currants,
one-quarter dram cloves, one-quarter dram
cinnamon, nine pints proof        spirit,   one and
three-quarters pounds sugar.        Digest for a
fortnight.

         RATAFIA DES CERISES
  Take four pounds morello          cherries, with
their kernels bruised, four pints proof spirit.
Digest for a month, strain with expression,
and then add three-quarters pound of sugar.

         RATAFIA DE CHOCOLAT
  Take       one   pound Curacoa cocoanuts
roasted, one-half    pound West India cocoa-
nuts, roasted, one gallon proof spirit.         Di-
gest for a fortnight, strain, and then add
one and one-half pounds sugar, thirty drops
tincture of vanilla.


         DRY OR SHARP RATAFIA
  Take fifteen pounds of cherries, fifteen
pounds of gooseberries, three and one-half
                       145
         ^omt matre WiUitn
pounds mulberries, five pounds raspberries.
Pick all these fruits clean from their stalks,
etc., bruise them, and let them stand twelve

hours, but do not suffer them to ferment.
Press out the juice, and to every pint add
three ounces of sugar.      When the sugar
is dissolved, run it through the filtering bag,

and to every five pints of liquor add four
pints of proof spirit, together with the same
proportion of spirit drawn from spices.

        RATAFIA DE GRENOBER
   Take two pounds of small wild black cher-
ries,   with their kernels bruised, one gallon
proof    spirit.    Digest for a month, strain,
and add two pounds of sugar.                A little cit-
ron peel may also be added at pleasure.

           RATAFIA DE NOYAU
   Take    of peach or apricot kernels, with
their shells bruised, in         number one hundred
and twenty, four pints proof                 spirit,    ten
ounces sugar.         Some reduce the          spirit    of
wine to proof with the juice of apricots or
peaches, to        make   this    liquor.


 RATAFIA D'ECORCES D'ORANGES
   Take two ounces of fresh peel of Seville
oranges, one-half gallon proof spirit, one-
half pound sugar.          Digest for six hours.
                            146
                                                            :




         j^omt JWaifir Wilmu
RATAFIA DE THURO D'ORANGES
  Take two pounds              of   fresh   flowers   of

orange-tree, one gallon proof spirit, one and
one-half pounds of sugar.     Digest for six
hours.

      RATAFIA A LA VIOLETTE
  Take two drams Florentine orris root, one
ounce archel, four pints spirit of wine.              Di-
gest, strain, and add four pounds sugar.


            USQUEBAUGH, NO. 1
   Usquebaugh is a strong compound liquor,
chiefly taken by the dram.   It is made in

the highest perfection at Drogheda, in Ire-
land.   The following are the ingrtedients
Take two quarts of best brandy, one-half
pound     raisins,   stoned,    one-half ounce nut-
megs, one-half ounce cardamoms, one-quar-
ter ounce saffron, rind of one-half Seville
orange, one-half pound brown sugar candy.
 Shake these well every day for at least four-
 teen days, and it will at the expiration of
 that time be ready to be fined for use.


           USQUEBAUGH, NO.                   2
    Take one ounce of nutmegs, one ounce of
 cloves, one ounce of cinnamon, two ounces
 of the seed of anise, two ounces of the seed
                          147
          ^omt JHa?rc ^mintn
of caraway, two ounces of the seed of cori-
ander,    one-quarter pound of licorice          root
sliced.   Bruise the seeds and spices, and put
them together with the licorice, into the still
with five and one-half gallons of proof spirit,
                                                         1
and one gallon of water. Distill with a
pretty brisk    fire.     As soon as the still be-
gins to work to the nozzle of the worm, take
one-quarter ounce of English saffron, tied up
in a cloth that the liquor         may run through
it,   and extract   all   its   tincture.When the
operation is finished, sweeten with fine sugar.
This liquor    may be much improved by the
following additions:        Digest two pounds of
stoned raisins, one and one-half pounds of
dates, one    pound of      sliced   licorice root, In
one gallon of water, for twelve hours. When
the liquor is strained off, and has deposited
all   sediment, decant     It    gently into a vessel
containing the usquebaugh.




                        THE END,




                           148
                    Sntstx
Introduction    .....
General Directions for Making Wines
                                                      11
                                                      15
Coloring for Wines   .
                                                      17
Fining or Clearing Wine        .                      17
To Flavor Wine                                        17
                                                      18
To Mellow Wine

  Wine    ....
To Remove the Taste of the Cask from

To Remove Ropiness from Wine
                                                      18
                                                      18
                                                      18
To Restore Wine, When Sour or Sharp
To Make Apple Wine                                    19
Apricock Wine   .
                                                      19
Balm Wine                                             20
Barley Wine                                           20
                                                      21
To ^Slake Beer and Ale from Pea-shells
                                                      21
Birch Wine
Blackberry Wine                                       22
Blackberry Wine          (Other        Methods   of
  Making)                                             22
                                                      24
Fine Brandy Shrub        .



American Champagne                                    24
 Champagne Cup                                        25
                                                      25
 British Champagne       .



 Burgundy Champagne                                   26
 Champagne Cider                                      26
 Champagne Cider, No. 2            .
                                                      27
                             149
                   KnJrep
                                                   PAGE
English Champagne^ or the         fine   Currant
  Wine, To Make                                     27
Sham Champagne      .         .    .      .    .28
Cheap and Agreeable Table Beer            .    .28
Cherry Bounce       .         .    .      .    .28
Cherry Bounce, No. 2          .    .      .    .29
Cherry Bounce, No. 3    .     .           .    .29
Cherry Wine                                         SO
Cherry Wine, No. 2                                  SO
General Rules for Making Cider            .    .SI
To Can Cider                                        S4
Boiling Cider                                       35
To Clear Cider                                      36
Cider, to Preserve and Keep Sweet         .    .    36
Cider Champagne                                     S7
Cherry Cider   .    ,    -    .           .    .    S7
Devonshire Cider     .   .    *           .    .    S8
French Cider                                        S9
Western Cider                                       39
Cider without Apples     .    .           .    .40
Cider Wine     .    .    .    .           .    .41
Clary Wine                                 41
Fine Clary Wine     .    .    .    .     .42
Clover Wine                                42
Cock Ale
Cowslip Wine   ......
Cowslip or Clary Wine, No. 2 .     .
                                           4S
                                           43
                                         .44
Currant Shrub  .    .         .
                              .    .     .46
Currant Wine
Currant Wine, No. 2
Currant Wine, No. 3
                              ....         46
                                           46
                                           48
Currant Wine, No. 4           .    .     .49
                                          .




  ing     .......
Currant or Gooseberry Wine, without Boil-

Cypress Wine, Imitation of    .
                                           49
                                         .50
                                          .


                        150
                     Kntrer


Daisy Wine                           51
Dandelion Wine                       51
Damson Wine      .                   51
Damson, or Black Cherry Wine         52
Ebulum                               52
Elder-Flower Wine                    53
Elder Wine                           53
Elderberry Wine                      54
Elder Wine, No. 2                    54
Elder Wine, No. 3                    55
Elder Wine (Flavored with Hops)      56
Elder Wine, to make at Christmas     51
Elder-flower   Water   .
                                     58
English Fig Wine                     59
Frontignac Wine                      59
Ginger Beer                          60
Ginger Beer, No. 2     .             61
Ginger Wine                          61
Gooseberry Wine, To Make             62
Gooseberry Wine                      62
Gooseberry Wine, No. 2           .   63
Gooseberry and Currant Wine          64
Pearl Gooseberry Wine                Q5
Red Gooseberry Wine                  Q5
Red and White Gooseberry Wine        66
White Gooseberry or Champagne Wine   66
Unfermented Grape Juice              66
Grape Wine                           67
Grape Wine, No. 2                    6S
Grape Wine, No. 3                    69
Hop Beer                             69
Juniper-Berry Wine                   70
Koumiss, a Tartar Wine               70
Koumiss                              71
Lemon Wine, To Make                  71
                           151
                      Kntrer
                                       PAGE
Lemon Wine, No. 2                       72
Madeira Wine      .    c   .   .   .    72
Malt Wine, or English Sherry ,          72
Mead
Small White Mead
Strong Mead, To Make
                       .....
                                        73
                                        74
                                        74
Mead, Metheglin, or Honey Wine          75
Metheglin                               76
Molasses Beer
Morello Wine .....                      76
                                        76

Mountain Wine ....
Morello Cherry Wine

              ....
                                        77
                                        77

Noyau       ......
Mulberry Wine

Orange Wine, To Make       .
                                        77
                                        78
                                        79
Orange or Lemon Wine, Boiled            79
Orange or Lemon Wine without Boiling    80
Orange Wine with Raisins, To Make       81
Orgeat                                  82
Palermo Wine, To Make                   82
Parsnip Wine, To Make                   83
Parsnip Wine, No. 2                     83
Parsnip Wine, No. 3                     84
Peach Wine, To Make                     84
Perry or Pear Cider    .                85
Pineapple   Rum                         85
Plum Wine                               85
Pop, or Ginger Beer                     86
Porter                                  87
Porter, for Bottling   .                87
Port Wine                               88
Port Wine (British)    .                88
Quince Wine, To Make                    89
Quince Wine, No. 2     .                90
Raisin   Wine                           90
Knlr^t^
JfnJer
         PAGE
KnSrer
         PAGE
Knlrrr
         PAGE
