      HOME.MADE
                  BEVERAGES
                           AND

                  AMERICAN DRINKS.



- '• 1^1 ''''iv




                         M.E.STEEDMAN.

                  Ki',
•   %




        itafaiinhif irtlr r-"'--*-*'
                                       cr<i .
                                       liZ2




M'ii'iii I r-fii-'iiiiirlii'iri" I'lrfiiiiiiiiltr'
         Home-made


  BEVERAGES
                 AND




     American Drinks.



                  BY



       M. E. STEEDMAN.




            FOOD 8 COOKERY
            PUDUSHINOAOENCyd




                       w




              LONDON
The Food and Cookery Fublishinq Agency,
          Westminster. S.W.
                         ,1 1          * pi|.




        ■:|S
         •*' .ii"-




            (V
             •r *




                                ■ ■     .v<.
                                 ;i,

kV
 '. ■   .t ..   A.-s,"-..,                      - ' ■' -   '
               PREFACE.


In compiling this little book, the witer felt
sanguine that there was a great need for a manual
of this kind giving concise directions for the
preparation of all kinds of drinks suitable for
all seasons and all occasions.
  The many attractively got up varieties of
manufactured aerated waters, cordials, and other
beverages supplied to us by wine merchants,
grocery stores, etc., furnish all that is desired
by many in the way of drinks. But there are
others who like to quench their thirst by a
home-made beverage, not only because they
prefer such to the manufactured article, but also
because they like to know, as far as possible,
what the drink is made of.

   It is for the latter, and for those whose duty
it is to cater for them, that the following collec
tion of recipes has been produced in book form,
and it is hoped that this manual ^rill be found
useful.

   Most of the recipes are for the production
of easily made, and wholesome beverages ; many
of them can be recommended, as suitable and
most acceptable, when a cooling drink is required
in the sick-room.   It will be noticed that a num
ber of old-fashioned inexpensive drinks, syrups,
fruit vinegars, wines, etc., which were the
favourite preparations of our grandmothers,
are also included in this collection of recipes.
Many of these can, of course, be bought ready-
made, but for flavour, colour,and wholesomeness,
the home-made article is, with few exceptions,
better.

  Alcohol, in one form or another, has been
ntroduced in a number of the drinks described
herein, notably so for American drinks, cups
4                     Preface.

and punch, and whilst admitting that this
ingredient is essential for the successful results
of these drinkables, it is well to remember that
the less alcohol one uses the better it is for those
who imbibe the drinks. This especially refers
to spirits and liqueurs ; a little of either should be
made to go a long way.
    On the other hand, there will be found direc
tions for hundreds of wholesome and refreshing
non-alcoholic drinks, so that all tastes have been
well catered for.

  For the purpose of easy reference, the recipes
have been arranged in alphabetical order.
                                              C. H. S.




               CONTENTS.
                                                   PAGE

Home-made Beverages ...                 ...       5 to 82

Cups

Punch
                          At

American Drinks                .... "                 83
   Home-made Beverages.

Acidulated Alksdi.
  Rub 8 oz. of loaf sugar on the rinds of 5 large
fresh lemons till all the zest is extracted, then
pound and sift it, add 4 oz. each of bicarbonate
of soda and tartaric acid, and store in an air
tight bottle. When required, stir 2 teaspoonfuls
of the powder into a tumbler of water, and drink
while effervescing.
Ale Berry.
  Soak 2 table-spoonfuls of oatmeal groats in a
gill of water for an hour, then strain into a
saucepan, add i pint of boiling ale or porter and
sugar and ground ginger to taste. Boil gently
for ten minutes, then serve.
Ale Flip.
  Boil IJ pints of ale, i oz. of butter, half a
blade of mace, a clove, and J oz. of sugar to
gether, then pour on to a well beaten egg mixed
with a spoonful of cold ale. Whisk well until
frothy, then serve at once.
Ale Jingle.
  Put a roasted apple and 2 slices of plum cake
into a pint jug, fill up with hot ale, add sugar and
grated nutmeg to taste, and serve.
Ale Mulled (No. 1).
  Beat the yolk of a large egg, a teaspoonful of
sugar and a table-spoonful of cream together,add
half a pint of hot ale, stir over the fire till the
mixture is thick, but not boiling, add grated
nutmeg to taste, and serve.
Ale Mulled(No. 2).
  Boil a pint of ale with 2 cloves, a small piece
of root ginger, 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar and i oz.
butter together, and pour gradually on to 3 eggs
beaten up with a table-spoonful of cold ale.
Pour the mixture rapidly from one jug into
another until well frothed, heat it again, talcing
care that it does not boil, add a table-spoonful of
brandy, and serve.
 6           Home-made Beverages.
 Ale Posset.
     Boil J pint of new milk, and pour it over a
 slice of toast. Add J oz. butter, the beaten yolk
 of an egg, \ pint hot ale and sugar to taste.
 Simmer gently for two or three minutes, then
 serve.

 Ale Punch.
   Put 1 quart of mild ale into a bowl, add 1 oz.
 castor sugar, the grated rind and strained juice of
 a lemon, a wineglassful each brandy and sherry,
 and a little grated nutmeg, and serve in small
glasses.
Ale Sangareei
   Sweeten J pint boiling ale with a teaspoonful
of castor sugar, pour into a tumbler, grate a little
nutmeg on the top, and serve.
Allspice Cordials
   Infuse J oz. of allspice and 1 oz. sugar candy
in a pint of good brandy for a fortnight, shaking
it every day, then strain through filtering paper,
pour into small bottles, cork them tightly and
seal with bottling wax.
Almond Drink.
  Simmer 3 oz. ground sweet almonds and 1 oz.
ground bitter almonds in a pint of water for 15
minutes, then dissolve J lb. sugar in it, and
strain through a fine hair sieve. When cold add
a spoonful of orange-flower water, and dilute to
taste with plain or aerated water.
Almond Milk.
  Blanch and pound 2 oz. sweet almonds and
I oz. bitter almonds with a table-spoonful
orange-flower water and 2 oz. castor sugar, add a
pint of cold water, cover over, and leave for three
hours, stirring from time to time. Strain, add a
table-spoonful of brandy if liked, and store in air
tight bottles. When required dilute with an
equal quantity of cold water.
Ambrosia.
  Take some strawberry syrup (see recipe),
flavour it to taste with vanilla essence,and diluted
with plain water or aerated water.
Angelica Cordial.
  Infuse 4 oz. young angelica shoots, 4 cloves
and a small piece of cinnamon in a quart pf
           Home-made Beverages                 7

good brandy for 2 months, keepmg the jar
tightly covered and shaking it occasionally.
Boil I pint of water and lib. pure cane sugar to
gether for five minutes, skim, and when cold
add the strained brandy. Pour into bottles,
and cork and seal them securely.
Angelica Liqueur.
  Infuse ^Ib. chopped angelica stalks in 2J pints
of pure rectified spirits of wine for 6 weeks,
keeping the jar tightly covered and shaking it
frequently. Strain, add the thinly pared rmd
of half a small lemon. 2 cloves, J oz. cinnamon,
and 1 lb. sugar candy. Infuse for three weeks,
then strain through filtering paper and store in
air-tight bottles.
Angelica Ratafia.
   Infuse 2 oz. angelica stalks, i oz. blanched
 and shredded bitter almonds, haU a teaspoonful
 of angeUca seeds and 1 lb. crushed sugar candy
 in 3 quarts of good brandy for 10 days, keeping
 the jar well covered and shaking it frequently.
 Strain through filtering paper, and store in
 air-tight bottles.
 Aniseed Cordial.
   Steep 1 oz. aniseed and J lb pure cane          in
 a quart of good brandy for three weeks. Then
 strain through filtering paper and store in air
 tight bottles.
 Anisette.
   Boil 2 lb. pure cane sugar in a pint of water
 for five minutes, skim, and when cold add a
 quart of pure rectified spirits of wine and twenty-
 ^our drops of essence of aniseed. Store m air
 tight bottles.
 Apple Juice.
    Peel and core some juicy cooking apples,
 weigh them, and put 4 lb. into a jar with 3 pints
 of cold water. Simmer gently until the apples
 are broken, then strain through a jelly bag.
  Measure the liquid, and boil it for ten mmutes
 with 4 lb. pure cane sugar to every pint of
 liquid. When cold, pour into bottles, cork
 them tightly, and seal with bottling wax.
 Dilute with plain or aerated water as required.
   ®            HoMe-made leverages.
   Apple Punch.
       Slice 2apples and putthem into a bowl with a
  table-spoonful of castor sugar, half a lemon sliced,
  and a bottle of claret. Let them stand for
  tour hours,then strain,and serve in claret glasses.
  Apple Water.
       Slice 4 large apples, put them into a bowl,
  pour a quart of boiling water on to them, add
  sugar to taste, and let them stand for 4 hours.
  Stram, add the juice of half a lemon, and serve.
  Apple Water. Iced.
    Peel and slice 5 large apples, and put them
 into a bowl with the thinly pared rind of a lemon,
 2 table-spoonfuls of lemon juice, a quart of
 boihng water, and sugar to taste. Let them
 stand till cold, then strain, and ice.
 Apple Wine {No. 1).
   Put 8 quarts of crushed apples and 2 gallons
 of boiling water into a pan, cover with a blanket,
 and leave for 14 days, then strain the liquid,
 weigh it and allow 1 lb. pure cane sugar to
 every B. Dissolve the sugar in the liquid, pour
 into a large earthenware bowl, and cover over.
 When a thick scum has formed on the top, skim
it off carefully, and leave till the following day,
 then pour into bottles, and cork and seal them
securely.
Apple Wine (No. 2).
   Three parts fill a cask with 10 lb. of pure cane
sugar and 5 gallons of cider, and stir until the
sugar is quite dissolved. Leave for two whole
days and nights. Then put in the bung and vent
peg, and in a year's time'the wine will be fit to
drink.

Apricot Brandy.
  Slice 16 ripe sound apricots, and infuse them
for a month in 3 pints of good brandy with
i lb. crushed sugar candy and 12 apricot kernels,
keeping the jar tightly covered, and shaking it
once a day. Strain through filtering paper, and
store in airtight bottles.
Apricot Cordial.
  Halve 8 large ripe apricots and put them in
a wde-mouthed glass bottle with their kernels
            Home-made Beverages.                 9
and IJ pints of pure rectified spirits of wine.
Steep for a month, then strain. Boil J lb. pure
cane sugar in J pint water for five minutes,
and when cold, add it to the spirit. Pour into
bottles, and cork and seal them securely.
Apricot Drink.
  Put 18 peeled and sliced apricots, 6 bruised
kernels,4 oz. sugar and a quart of boiling water
into a basin.    When cold, strain and serve.
If liked the liquid may be iced.
Apricot Gin.
  Half fill some wide-mouthed glass bottles with
sliced apricots, and allow 6 bruised kernels and
2 oz. crushed sugar candy to every pound of
fruit. Fill up the bottles with good unsweetened
gin, infuse for 3 months, shaking occasionally,
then strain and re-bottle.
Apricot Noycau.
   Infuse 4 oz. bruised apricot kernels, the crushed
stones, and 4 oz. sugar candy in a quart of good
brandy for a fortnight, then strain through
filtering paper and bottle.
Apricot Ratafia.
  Halve 1 lb. of ripe sound apricots and boil
them in IJ- pints of white wine until tender.
Pour into a jar, add the bruised kernels, a small
piece of cinnamon, 4 oz. crushed sugar candy
and a pint of good brandy. Infuse for 10 days,
then strain through filtering paper, and bottle.
Apricot Syrup.
  Place some apricots in a large jar with half
their kernels, stand it in a pot of w^ater, and boil
till the fruit is soft and the juice flows freely.
Strain through a jelly bag,measure, and to every
pint of juice allow 1 lb. pure cane sugar. Boil
together for 10 minutes, skimming thoroughly,
let it get cool, then pour into bottles. Place a
little olive oil on the top of the syrup, cork the
bottles tightly, and seal with bottling wax.
When required, remove the oil with a piece of
cotton wool, and dilute to taste with plain or
aerated water.

Apricot Vinegar.
  Put 3 gallons of halved apricots into an un-
glazed earthenware pan, pour over them a gallon
 10          Home-mad* Beverages.
of white wine vinegar,cover the pan with a sheet
of paper and leave for 4 days. Strain through a
jelly bag, measure the liquid, allow 1 lb. of pure
cane sugar to every pint, and boil together for
30 minutes, skimming carefully. When cool
add half a pint of good brandy to every quart of
liquid, and store in airtight bottles.
Apricot Wine.
  Slice 241b. of ripe sound apricots, and boil them
for half an hour with half the kernels, 6 gallons of
water and 2 lb. pure cane sugar. Pour into
a large vessel and when lukewarm stir in two
table-spoonfuls of yeast, cover over with a folded
cloth or blanket, and leave undisturbed for
4 or 5 days, then strain into a clean dry cask,
reserving about a gallon of the liquid. Bung
the cask lightly, and fill up as the fermentation
subsides, and when this has ended add a quart of
white wine or good brandy and fasten the cask
securely. Leave for 6 months, then bottle, and
in a year the wine will be ready to use.
Apricot Wine (No. 2).
  Slice 18 Ib. of sound ripe apricots, and boil them
for an hour with 3 gallons of water, and about
half the kernels bruised. Strain through a
jelly bag, measure, and to every pint of liquid
allow 3 oz. pure cane sugar. Bring to boiling
point again, and simmer gently for ten minutes,
skimming carefully, then pour into an earthen
ware jar, cover over and leave until the next
day. Pour the wine into dry bottles, put a lump
of cane sugar into each, cork and seal the bottles
securely, and stpre for six months.
Aromatic Cordial.
  Infuse 1 oz. ground ginger, J or. cardamom
seeds, J oz. each of thinly pared orange rind,
mace' and bruised cinnamon, and 1 oz. crushed
sugar candy in IJ pints of good whisky for a
fortnight in a tightly corked bottle, then strain
and re-bottle.

Arrack Liqueur.
  Boil i lb. sugar candy, the thinly pared rind
of half a lemon, and 1 pint of water together till
rather thick, then strain, and when cold add
a pint of arrack. Pour into small bottles,
cork tightly and seal with bottling wax.
            Home-made Beverages.                 11

Arrowroot Gruel.
  Mix a dessert-spoonful of arrowroot smoothly
with a little cold milk, add 1 pint of boiling
milk, return to the pan,and boil for five minutes,
stirring all the time. Sweeten to taste and serve.
Arrowroot Water.
  Boil the thinly pared rind of a lemon in 2 pints
of water. Mix a table-spoonful of arrowroot
smoothly with a little cold water, add the boil
ing water, strain into the pan, and stir until the
mixture has boiled for five minutes, then add
two or three spoonfuls of brandy or wine, and
a little lemon juice, and serve hot or cold.
Athole Brose.
  Place 1 lb. of fresh honeycomb in an earthen
ware jar, pour over it 1 pint each of good French
brandy and old Scotch whisky. Steep for
5 days, then strain through filtering paper, and
bottle for use.

Banana Liqueur.
  Three parts fill some '.vide-mouthed glass
bottles with sliced ripe sound bananas. Fill up
with good brandy, cork the bottles tightly, and
infuse for a month, shaking occasionally, then
strain. Boil J pint of water and 1 lb. of pure
cane sugar together for five minutes, skim, and
let it get cold. Sweeten the brandy to taste
with the syrup, then store in airtight bottles.
Banana Ratafia.
  Put 3 pints of peeled and thinly sliced bananas
into a jar, add 1 oz. of blanched and pounded
bitter almonds,half an inch of bruised cinnamon,
2 quarts of pure rectified spirits of wine, and
J lb. of crushed sugar candy. Cover the jar
closely and infuse for 3 months, then filter and
bottle.

Banana Shrub.
  Put a quart of peeled and thinly sliced bananas
into a jar, add the thinly pared rind and strained
juice of a lemon, 3 pints of good old Jamaica
rum, and 10 oz. of pure cane sugar. Cover the
jar closely and infuse for 2 months, shaking it
daily, then filter, and store in airtight bottles.
Banana Syrup.
  See Recipe for Pineapple Syrup.
  12           Home-made Beverages.
 Banana Vinegar.
  See Recipe for Pineapple Vinegar.
 Banana Water.
   Rub 2 oz. loaf sugar on to the rind of a lemon
 and put it into a jug with the strained juice, 3
 peeled and thinly sliced bananas, and a pint of
 boiling water. Cover over and leave for 6 hours,
 then strain and serve. A little rum may be
 added to the water, and if liked, it may be iced.
 Barberry Brandy.
   Put 3 lb. of crushed barberries and 3 lb. of
 pure cane sugar into a large jar, add 2 quarts
 of good brandy, cover closely, and infuse for
 10 days, then strain through filtering paper, and
 store in airtight bottles.
 Barberry Syrup.
   See recipe for Apricot Syrup.
Barley Water.
  Well wash 2 oz. pearl barley and put it into
a saucepan with a pint of cold water. Bring
to the boil slowly, and boil gently for five
 minutes.   Strain the water off, then add 3
pints of cold water, bring to boiling point again
and simmer gently for two hours. Sweeten to
taste, and if liked add a little lemon juice and
serve hot or cold.

Bay Rum.
  Put 1 lb. of fresh bay-leaves into a jar with
2 quarts of white rum, cover the jar closely,
and steep for three weeks, shaking it every day.
Strain tlirough filtering paper, and store in
airtight bottles.
Beef Tea.
  Cut 1 lb of gravy beef into small pieces and
put it into a jar with 1 pint of cold water.
Leave for an hour,ithen cover the jar closely,place
it in a pot of boiling water and simmer gently
for 3 hours.   Strain, and when cold remove the
fat, and use as required.
Beef Tea, Raw.
  Take 4 oz. fresh beef free from skin, fat or
gristle. Shred it very finely with a sharp knife,
add J pint of cold water and a pinch of salt, cover
over, and let it stand for an hour, then strain,
and serve in a coloured glass.
           Home-made Beverages.                13

Beetroot Wine.
  Well wash 15 lb. of beetroots without break
ing the skins, and boil them gently until
tender. Pound 6 pints of sloes in a mortar
till the stones are broken, then place them in a
preserving pan with a quart of water, and boil
for twenty minutes, then strain. When the
beetroots are cold peel and slice them, and place
them in a large earthenware vessel with the
sloe juice. Cover over with a folded cloth, and
next day add 6 lb. of halved sultana raisins, and
the thinly pared rind of 2 Seville oranges and
2 small lemons. Boil 4^ gallons of water and
13 lb. of pure cane sugar together for 40
minutes, skimming well, then pour it over the
beetroot, and when lukewarm, stir in 4 table-
spoonfuls of yeast, cover over, and leave for
3 days. Strain the liquid into a cask, and keep
back about a gallon to fill up the cask as the
fermentation subsides.    When this has ended,
add a pint ,of good brandy and 3 oz. of sugar
candy, bung the cask, and leave it undisturbed
for a month, then rack it off, filter the lees, and
return the whole to the cask with 1 oz. of dis
solved isinglass and 1 oz.of blanched and shredded
bitter almonds. Bung the cask tightly, and leave
it for 18 months, then bottle, and in a year it
 will be ready for use.

 Birch Beer.
   Boil 1 lb. of black birch bark in 7 pints of
 water for 1 hour, then strain, and boil rapidly
 until the liquid is of the consistency of treacle.
 Boil 2 oz. of hops, J lb. of ginger, J lb. of
 pimiento and 3 gallons of water together for
 25 minutes, strain on to the bark liquor, return
 to the pan and bring to boiling point (stirring
 frequently), then add 6 quarts of golden syrup,
 and when dissolved, strain into a clean cask.
 Add 20 gallons of boiled water,and when the wh ole
 is lukewarm stir in a pint of liquid yeast. Bung
 the cask loosely till fermentation has quite
 ceased, then bottle the beer, cork and seal, and
 store in a cool place.
 Birch Wine.
   Boil 9 gallons of sap from the birch tree,
 9 quarts of honey (or 23 lb. of pure cane sugar),
 14          Home-made Beverages.
 12 cloves, the thinly pared rind of 6 lemons, and
 2 oz. of hops together for ten minutes, skimming
 well. When lukewarm pour into a clean cask,
 add a piece of toast spread with yeast, and let it
 ferment for 4 or 5 days. Then bung the cask
 closely and leave for 2 months, when the wine
 should be bottled. In 2 months it will be fit
 for use.

 Bishop (1),
   Stick 12 cloves into a large orange and roast it
 until brown,then cut into eighths, take out the
 pips, put into a clean pan, and add a bottle of
 port. Sweeten to taste, let it get hot, infuse on
 the stove for 20 minutes, taking care that it
 does not boil, then strain and serve.
 Bishop (2).
  Stick a lemon with cloves, and roast it before
the fire till brown. Rub the zest of a fresh
lemon on to 8 oz. of loaf sugar, pound it, place
it in a clean pan with the roasted lemon cut in
quarters, J pint each of water and port, a bottle
of claret, and a little grated nutmeg, ginger, and
cinnamon.      Heat the mixture slowly, add a
wineglassful of cherry brandy and serve.
Bishop's Nightcap.
  Stick a Seville orange with 12 cloves and roast
it in front of the fire till dark brown.   Boil half
a teaspoonful each of mace, ginger, cinnamon,
allspice and cloves, and the thinly pared rind
of a lemon, in half a pint of water for half an
hour, strain, add the strained juice of a lemon,
J lb. sugar, the roasted orange, and a bottle of
port. Heat slowly, theii serve.
Bitter Wine.
  Boil 6 gallons of water, 15 lb. pure cane
sugar and 3 oz. ginger together for half an hour,
skimming when necessary, then pour into a
large vessel containing IJ pints of wormwood,
3 pints each green and red camomile, 3 oz. of
camomile flowers, IJ oz. of gentian root, and
2 handfuls of rosemary. Cover over and infuse
for five days, then boil part of the liquid and
add it to the remainder to make the whole
lukewarm. Stir in 6 table-spoonfuls of liquid
yeast, and strain into a cask (reserving about a
           Home-made Beverages.                15
gallon to fill up the cask as the fermentation
subsides), bung lightly till the hissing noise
ceases,then add one and a half Ounces of dissolved
isinglass, and one and a half pints of good brandy.
Stop the cask securely, and in 9 months bottle
off and keep for six months longer.
Bitters.
  Crush 1 oz. gentian root and half oz. of husked
cardamoms together, and mix with 2 oz. of
thinly pared Seville orange rind. Half fill some
 wide-mouth glass bottles with these ingredients,
fill up with brandy, cork tightly, and infuse for a
fortnight, then strain, and rebottle.
Blackberry Brandy.
  Bruise one and a half quarts of fine ripe
blackberries, and infuse them for a fortnight
in a tightly covered jar with a quart of good
brandy, half an oz. of cinnamon, 8 oz. crushed
sugar candy and 6 cloves. Strain through
filtering paper, and store in airtight bottles.
Blackberry Cordial.
  Bruise 3 quarts of sound ripe blackberries,
and put them into a jar with 3 pints of whisky,
6 oz. of crushed sugar candy, the thinly pared
rind of a lemon, and 1 oz. of bruised ginger.
Cover the jar closely, steep for three weeks, then
strain and bottle.
Blackberry Gin.
  Break half a pound of sugar candy into small
pieces, and put it into a large jar with a quart of
ripe sound blackberries, and one and a half
pints of good unsweetened gin. Cover closely
and leave for three months, shaking the jar
daily for the first month, then strain tlirough
filtering paper, and store in airtight bottles.
Blackberry Ratafia.
   Put 1 quart of brandy, 1 pint of fresh black
berry juice, 2 cloves, a piece of cinnamon, the
thinly pared rind of half a small lemon, and
i lb. pure cane sugar into a large jar, cover
it closely, and infuse for a month, then filter and
bottle.

Blackberry Syrup.
  Put 8 lb. of sound ripe blackberries, half pint
of cold water and 8 lb. of pure cane sugar into
  i6         Home-made Beverages.
 a jar, cover it closely, and cook it in a pot of
• boiling water for two hours. Strain the juice
 through a jelly bag, boil for 10 minutes,skimming
 carefully, and when cold add a wineglassful of
 brandy to every pint of syrup. Pour into
 bottles, cork them tightly and seal with bottling
 wax.


 Blackberry Vinegar^
   Put 6 quarts of ripe sound blackberries into
an unglazed jar, and pour over them 2 quarts
of white wine vinegar. Cover the jar with paper
and infuse for four days, then strain through a
jelly bag, and to every pint of liquid allow 1 lb.
of pure cane sugar, and boil together for 20
minutes, skimming thoroughly. When cold,
pour into bottles, and cork and seal them
securely.

Blackberry Whisky.
  Put 9 pints of ripe fresh blackberries into a
large jar, add 2 lb. of pure cane sugar, half a
gallon of good old whisky, 8 cloves, a piece of
cinnamon, and half a nutmeg sliced.     Cover the
jar closely, infuse for 6 months, then filter, and
store in airtight bottles.
Blackberry Wine.
   Mash 4 gallons ripe sound blackberries in a
tub, pour over them 4 gallons of boiling water,
stir well, cover with a blanket, and let it stand
for five days. Strain the liquid without dis
turbing the crust on the surface, and to every
gallon allow 1 lb. of pure cane sugar, pour into
a cask, and let it work for about 12 days, re
serving about a gallon of liquid to'fill up the
cask as the fermentation subsides.        Add a
stick of cinnamon and a gill of good brandy to
every gallon of wine, bung the cask tightly and
keep for a year.

Black Currant Cordial.
  Put 1 lb. of black currants into a large wide-
mouthed bottle, add half a pound of finely           ,S
crushed sugar candy and one and a half pints
of good unsweetened gin. Cork the bottle tightly
and leave for 2 months, then filter till clear and
rebottle.
           Home-made Beverages.                 17
Black Currant Liqueurs
  Put 2 quarts of fine ripe black currants into
a large jar, add 1 lb. of crushed sugar candy,
6 cloves, and 3 pints of brandy. Cover the
jar tightly, and infuse for 3 months, then filter
into bottles, and cork and seal them securely.
Black Currant Syrup.
  See recipe for Blackberry Syrup.
Black Currant Tea.
  Put a large table-spoonful of black currant
jam,a dessert-spoonful of lemon juice,and a pint
of boiling water into a jug. Stir well, add
sugar to taste, cover the jug, and let the mixture
infuse by the side of the fire for 30 minutes.
Strain and serve either hot or cold.

Black Currant Vinegar.
  Put 4 quarts of ripe black currants, and 2
pints of picked and washed young currant leaves
into a preserving pan, and stir over the fire until
the juice flows freely. Strain through a jelly
bag, measure the juice, allow 12 oz. pure cane
sugar to every pint, and boil together for twenty
minutes, skimming carefully. When cold,
mix in 3 gills of white wine vinegar to every
pint of syrup, then measure again, allow a gill
of brandy to every quart of liquid, and store in
airtight bottles.
Black Currant Wine.
  Put 4 gallons of cold water and 4 gallons of
fresh black currant juice into a cask with 14
lb. of pure cane sugar. Leave in a warm place
till the fermentation has ended,then rack it off
into a smaller cask, add a pint of good brandy to
every 3 gallons of wine, bung the cask tightly
 and leave for 9 months, then bottle, and in 12
 months time it will be fit to drink.

 Bomba.
  Blanch 1 oz. sweet almonds and 1 bitter
 almond, and pound them in a mortar to a smooth
 paste with 1 oz. castor sugar. Add very gradu
 ally 1 pint of cold water, than strain and serve.
 Brandy Shrub.
   Put the thinly pared rind of 2 lemons, one and
 a half pounds pure cane sugar and the strained
                                               B
 18         Home-made Beverages.
juice of 4 lemons into a jar with 2 quarts of good
brandy, cover closely and infuse for 5 days.
Strain, add half a small teaspoonful of grated
nutmeg and 3 pints of sherry. Filter into
bottles, and cork and seal them securely.
Caf^ au Lait.
   Roast and grind the coffee, if possible, just
before it is required. To every pint of water allow
3 oz. of coffee, place the latter in a fine muslin
bag, then in a heated jug, pour over the boiling
water, then cover the jug, and place it in a
saucepan of boiling water for five minutes. Then
pour into cups, add an equal quantity of boiling
milk, and sweeten to taste.
Caf6 Noir.
  AUow two gills of freshly ground coffee to every
four gills of boiling water. Make according to
the directions given above, and serve in small
cups.

Capillaire.
  Boil 3 pints of water and 3 pounds of pure cane
sugar together for twenty minutes, removing
the scum as it rises, then add a few drops of
vanilla essence and a gill of orange-flower water.
Strain through a jelly bag, pour into bottles,
and cork and seal them securely. When re
quired, dilute with plain or aerated water, and
if liked add a little wine or spirit or some slices
of fruit.

Caraway Cordial.
 Infuse 1 oz. carraway seeds, and 2 oz. each of
ginger and sugar in a quart of brandy for ten
days, then filter and store in airtight bottles.
Cassis.
  Strip and bruise one and a half pounds of sound
ripe black currants, put them into a jar, add
4 oz. raspberries, an inch of bruised cinnamon,
2 cloves, 2 quarts of good unsweetened gin and
1 lb. pure cane sugar. Cover the jar, and infuse
for 6 weeks, then filter into bottles and cork
and seal them securely.
Caudle (No. 1).
  Take a pint of oatmeal gruel, sweeten it to
taste, add a pinch of grated ginger, a glass of
]iort, and the yolk of two eggs, and servo hot.
           Home-made Beverages.                ig

Caudle (No. 2).
  Mix a table-spoonful of fine oatmeal smoothly
with a little cold water, add a pint of milk in
which the rind of a lemon has been simmered,
strain into a pan and stir until it has boiled
for five minutes, then add a wineglassful of
sherry or brandy, sugar to taste and a little
grated nutmeg, and serve.
 Cherry Brandy.
    Choose sound ripe Morella cherries, and half
fill some wide-mouthed glass bottles with them,
.add 3 oz. crushed sugar candy, ten cherry
 kernels, and two cloves to every pound of fruit,
 fill up with good brandy, and cork and seal
 securely. Leave for three months, then strain
and rebottle.

Cherry Gin.
  Stalk the cherries, rejecting any unsound
ones, prick them with a needle, and half fill some
wide-mouthed glass bottles with them. Add 6
cherry kernels, and 4 oz. crushed sugar candy
to every pound of fruit, fill up with good un
sweetened gin, and cork and seal the bottles.
Store the bottles in a cool, dry place for three
months, shaking them t\vo or three times a
week, then strain and rebottle.

Cherry Liqueur.
  Put 6 lb. of stalked and stoned cherries into
a large jar, add a quart of rum and a quart of
brandy, a piece of bruised cinnamon, 4 cloves,
and one and a half lb. of crushed sugar candy.
Cover the jar closely, and infuse for 2 months,
then strain and rebottle.

Cherry Noyeau.
  Put 4 oz. of blanched and pounded cherry
kernels into a jar, add 4 cloves, J oz. cinnamon,
6 oz. pure cane sugar, and a quart of brandy.
Cover the jar, and let it stand for six weeks,
shaking it daily, then filter, and store in air
tight bottles.
Cherry Ratafia.
  Stone some ripe sound cherries, put them into
a jar and cook in a pan of boiling water till the
juice flows freely, then strain and measure the
20           Home-made Beverages.
liquid, put it into a jar with a quart of brandy,
J oz. nutmeg, 6 cloves, 4 oz. of blanched and
pounded cherry kernels, and 12 oz. pure cane
sugar to every pint of the juice. Cover closely
and infuse for a month, shaking the jar twice
daily, then filter into bottles, and cork and seal
them securely.
Cherry Syrup.
  See recipe for Apricot Syrup.
Cherry Vinegar.
  See recipe for Apricot Vinegar.
Cherry Water.
  Mash 8 oz. of ripe sweet cherries, and put
them into a bowl with 2 oz. castor sugar, 6
bruised kernels, and a pint of boiling water.
Cover over and let them stand for 6 hours, then
strain, add a table-spoonful of brandy (if liked),
and serve.

Cherry Whisky.
  Put 8 lb. of stalked and stoned cherries into
a jar, add 2 quarts of good whisky, 2 lb.
pure cane sugar, 12 cloves, half an ounce of
bruised cinnamon,and 1 oz.bruisedcherry kernels.
Cover over, and infuse for two months, shaking
the jar daily, then filter and store in airtight
bottles.

Cherry Wine.
  Mash some ripe cherries in a tub and leave
them until the following day, then drain all
the juice from them, and to every five gallons
add 12 lb. of pure cane sugar.         Cover over,
and let it stand for three days, stirring two or
three times daily, then strain into a cask, add
the thinly pared rind of three large fresh lemons
and 1 oz. isinglass dissolved in two and a half
pints of good brandy. Bung tightly and leave
for six months,then rack it ofi, filter the lees, and
fill the cask again, adding one and a half ounces
sugar candy, and bottle ofi in 18 months time.
Chocolate.
  To every ounce of chocolate, allow 1 pint of
milk or water or milk and water mixed. Grate
the chocolate, pour over it the hot liquid, and
either heat the mixture in a chocolate mill, or
            Home-made Beverages.                21
place it in a saucepan and stir very briskly
while heating to make it frothy. It must not
be allowed to boil, or it will become oily.
Cider Wine.
  Put 8 gallons of apple juice, 8 lb."of honey,
2 oz. white tartar, and half oz. each of'cloves,
mace and cinnamon into a cask, cover the bung-
hole with a cask, and leave until the fermentation
has ended, then add 2 quarts of good old Jamaica
rum, bung the cask tightly, and leave for 6
months before bottling.
Cinnamon Cordial.
  Put a quart of whiskey, 6 oz. crushed sugar
candy and 4 oz. bruised cinnamon into a covered
jar, infuse for ten days, shaking the jar fre
quently, then filter and bottle.
Citron Liqueur.
  Put 6 oz. citron peel, 4 oz. thinly pared
orange rind, and half a grated nutmeg into a
jar, add 2 quarts of good unsweetened gin, one
and a half lb. of sugar dissolved in a pint of cold
water, and infuse for .10 days, then filter and
store in airtight bottles.
Clary Wine.
  Boil'4 gallons of water and 12 lb. of pure
cane sugar together, skimming when necessary,
then pour into a cask, and when lukewarm add
a gallon of clary flowers and tops, and half a
pint of yeast. Leave until the fermentation
has ceased, stirring two or three times daily
for the first four or five days, then bung securely
and after 4 months draw ofi the wine, add a
quart of good brandy, and bottle.
Clove Cordial.
  Put 2 oz. each of cloves and coriander seed,
and 24 crushed black cherries into a jar, add
half a pound of sugar candy^dissolved in half a
pint of cold water, and a quart of good unsweet
ened gin. Cover the jar and infuse for a month,
then filter and bottle.

Cocoa.
  Allow from one half to one teaspoonful of
cocoa to every teacupful of milk, water, or milk
and water mi.xed. Mix the cocoa smoothly with
22            Home-made Beverages.
a little of the cold liquid, add the remainder
boiling, pour into a saucepan, bring to boiling
point and serve.
Cocoa, Iced.
  Mix four table-spoonfuls of cocoa smoothly
with a little cold milk, add a quart of boiling
milk,pour into a pan,and bring to boiling point,
then sweeten to taste, ice, and serve with a tea-
spoonful of whipped and sweetened cream in
each cup.
Coffee.
  Allow a heaped up table-spoonful of freshly
ground cofiee to every half-pint of water. If a
cafetiere is not at hand follow the instructions
given in the recipe for Cai& au Lait, and when
ready, pour into a heated cofiee pot.
Coffee, Burnt.
  Sweeten some very strong cofiee to taste, pour
it into small cups, place a teaspoonful of brandy
in each, set fire to it, and when the spirit is
partly consumed, blow out the flame and drink
the cofiee at once.

Coffee, Iced.
  To a quart of very strong cofiee, add a wine-
glassful of maraschino or brandy, and 3 oz. of
castor sugar. Embed the jug in ice for three
hours, and serve whipped and iced cream with
the cofiee.

Coffee Liqueur.
  Put a pound of cane brown sugar and half
a pint of water into a pap, for five minutes,
skimming well, then add t36 freshly roasted
cofiee berries, and let them infuse by the side of
the fire for 10 minutes. Pour the syrup and
berries into a jar, add a quart of good brandy,
cover and infuse for a month, shaking the bottle
daily, then filter and bottle.
Coltsfoot Wine.
  Boil six gallons of water, 12 lb. pure cane
sugar, and the strained juice of six lemons
together for half an hour, removing the scum
as it rises, then pour it on to one and a half pecks
of freshly gathered coltsfoot flowers, 5 lb. of
stoned and chopped Malaga raisins and the
             Home-made Beverages.             23

thinly pared rind of 4 lemons. Stir well, and
when lukewarm add a gill of good yeast, cover
over and leave for four days, then strain into
a clean cask, bunging it lightly and reserving
about a gallon of the liquid to fill up the cask
as the fermentation subsides. When it has
quite ceased to work, add a quart of good
brandy, bung the cask tightly, and leave for
six months before bottling.
Cowslip Wine.                             .
  See recipe for Coltsfoot Wine, but omit the
raisins and use half a peck more of cowslip pips.
Cranberry Gin.
  Put J oz. blanched bitter almonds, 2 lb. of
ripe sound cranberries previously bruised or
mashed, 1 lb. crushed sugar candy, 4 cloves,
an inch of cinnamon, and a quart of good un
sweetened gin into a jar, cover it closely and
infuse for 3 months, shaking it occasionally, then
filter and bottle.
 Cranberry Syrup.
  Mash 12 lb. of ripe sound cranberries, put
them into a jar, place it in a pan of boiling water
and cook for two hours, then strain through a
 jelly bag, add a pound of pure cane sugar to
 every pint of juice, and boil together for 15
 minutes, skimming carefully. When cold, pour
 into bottles, and cork and seal them securely.
 Cranberry Vinegar.
   Mash 6 lb. of ripe sound cranberries, and put
 them into an unglazed jar with three quarts of
 white wine vinegar. Cover over and infuse for
 10 days, stirring frequently, then strain through
 a jeUy bag, allow a pound of pure cane sugar to
 every pint of liquid, and boil together for ten
 minutes, skimming when necessary. When
 cold, pour into bottles, and cork and seal them
 securely.
 Cranberry Water.
    Pour a pint of boihng water on to half a pmt
 of bruised cranberries, and when cold strain and
 sweeten to taste.
 Cranberry Whisky.
    Put a pint of fresh cranberry juice, IJ lb.
  of pure cane sugar, the thinly pared rind of half
  24          Home-made Beverages.
  a lemon, an inch of bruised cinnamon, 4 cloves
  and a quart of good whisky into a jar, cover
  closely, and infuse for a month, then filter and
  bottle.
  Crcmc d'Absinthe.
   Put 2 oz. of wormwood flower shoots into a
 jar, add J oz. bruised cinnamon, 4 cloves, 1 lb.
 crushed sugar candy, and 3 quarts of pure
 rectified spirits of wine. Cover the jar, and
 infuse for a fortnight, then filter, add one or
 two drops of green colouring if necessary, pour
 into bottles and cork and seal them securely.
 Crcmc dc Citron.
   Boil 12 oz. pure cane sugar and a pint of water
 together for 5 minutes, skim, and when cold
 add 3 pints of pure rectified spirits of wine, 60
 drops of oil of citron, and a little yellow colouring.
Filter into bottles and cork and seal them
securely.
 Cr£me de GiroH^.
   Boil 12 oz. pure cane sugar and a pint of
water together for 5 minutes, skim, and when
cold add 3 pints of pure rectified spirits of wine,
42 drops of oil of cloves, and 2 or 3 drops of
cochineal. Strain through filtering paper and
store in airtight bottles.
Creme dc Mcnthc.
  Put 24 sprigs of fresh young mint into a jar,
add the strained juice of two lemons, 6 oz.
crushed sugar candy, and a quart of brandy.
Infuse for a fortnight, then filter and bottle.
Crcmc d'Oranges.
 Slice 6 large juicy oranges (removing the pips)
and put them into a jar with 3 pints of good
brandy, half a pint of orange flower water,
and 1 lb. of crushed sugar candy. Cover the
jar closely and infuse for three weeks, then strain
through filtering paper, add a little yellow
colourmg, and store in airtight bottles.
Creme de Vanille.
  Break two vanilla pods into small pieces and
put them into a jar with 3 pints of brandy,
}lb. of crushed sugar candy, and a pint of water.
Infuse for a fortnight, then filter into bottles
and cork and seal them securely.
                                              25


                      CUPS.
Ale Cup.
  Toast a slice of bread and put it into a bowl
with the thinly pared rind and strained juice
of a lemon, 1 oz. of castor sugar, a good pinch
of grated nutmeg, a sprig of balm, two wine-
glassfuls of sherry, one of brandy, and 3 pints
of ale.   Let it stand for five minutes, then
remove the balm and serve.

Allahabad Cup.
  Mix a pint of pale ale, and a pint of white
wine together, sweeten to taste, add two sprigs
of mint, a little grated nutmeg, and a slice of
toast and serve.

Apple Cup.
  Slice 4 large apples, add 3 gills of boiling
water, cover the jug and let it stand until cold.
Strain, add a pint of cider, sugar to taste and a
little crushed ice, and serve.
Bacchus Cup.
  Put half a pint of sherry, 2 table-spoonfuls
of brandy, one of noyeau, and one of castor
sugar into a jug, add a sprig of bahn, half a
bottle of champagne, a few pieces of ice, and a
bottle of iced seltzer water and serve.

Badmiivton Cup (No. 1).
  Embed a large jug in ice, and place in it a
bottle of Burgundy, 1 oz. castor sugar, the
thinly pared rind of one orange and the strained
juice of two, a sprig of borage, and a wineglass-
ful of sherry or cura(;ao. Let it stand for two
hours, then add two bottles of iced soda water
and serve.

Badminton Cup (No. 2).
  Embed a large jug in ice, and pour into it a
pint of lemonade, a pint of claret, a wineglassful
of brandy, 3 slices of cucumber, 9 lumps of
sugar, and the thinly pared rind of a lemon.
Let it stand for 2 hours, then add two or three
lumps of ice and serve.
Balaclava Cup.
  Put the thinly pared rind of a lemon into a
bowl, add the strained juice, a glass of cura9ao,
a few slices of cucumber, 1 oz. of castor sugar.
26           Home-made Beverages.
half a bottle of champagne, a bottle of claret and
a bottle of seltzer water, and serve.

Burgundy Cup.
  Embed a jug in ice, and place in it a bottle of
Burgundy, a liqueur-glassful of chartreuse,
the strained juice of a lemon, and sugar to'
taste. Before serving, add half a pint of port
and 2 bottles of well iced seltzer water.

Chablis Cup.
  Embed a jug in ice, and put into it two pints
of chablis, one and a half gills of sherry, and a
sprig of borage. Rub 10 lumps of sugar on
the rind of a large lemon, then pound them and
stir into the liquid. Let it all stand for 1 hour,
then add two bottles of well iced seltzer water
and serve.

Champagne Cup (No. 1).
 Put a bottle of iced champagne into a large
jug, add a sprig of borage, a wineglassful of
brandy, a table-spoonful of maraschino, and
two bottles of iced soda water.
Champagne Cup (No. 2).
 Put a bottle of iced champagne into a large
jug, add 2 or 3 sprigs of verbena, 3 slices of
cucumber, 1 oz. castor sugar, a liqueur-glass
ful of Curasao, and two bottles of iced soda
water.

Cider Cup (No, 1).
  Embed a large jug in ice, and pour into it a
quart of cider, a glass of brandy, a pint of
lemonade, six lumps of sugar, and a sprig of
borage and balm. Let it stand fpr half an ^
hour, then add a bottle of iced soda water.
Cider Cup (No, 2).
  Put a quart of iced cider into a large jug, add
a sprig of mint, 6 lumps of sugar previously
rubbed on to the rind of a lemon and then
pounded, a wineglassful of sherry and one of
curafao, and lastly two bottles of iced soda
water.

Claret Cup (No. 1).
  Put a bowl in a tub of ice, and pour into it
the strained juice of 2 lemons, a gill of brandy,
and two bottles of claret. Rub 2 oz. loaf sugar
                      Cups.                   27

on to the rind of 2 lemons, pound it, and stir
it into the liquid. Before serving, add a bottle
of iced champagne and 2 bottles of iced soda
water.

Claret Cup (No. 2).
  Pour a bottle of claret into a bowl, stand it
in ice, add a wineglassful each of sherry,noyeau,
and maraschino, half a pint of lemonade,
sugar to taste, 2 sprigs of borage or verbena,
and let it all stand for an hour, then add a
bottle of iced soda water and serve.

Cool Cup (No. 1).
  Rub 2 oz. loaf sugar on to the rind of a lemon,
pound it, place in a bowl, add a pint of claret,
half a pint of water, a little powdered cinnamon
and grated nutmeg, and a sprig of borage.
Let it stand in ice for an hour before serving.

Cool Cup (No. 2).
  Embed a jug in ice, pour into it one and a half
pints of lemonade, and 3 gills of sherry, add
two or three slices of cucumber and a sprig of
mint or thyme, and let it stand for an hour
before using.
Hock Cup.
  Rub 2 oz. sugar on to the thinly pared rind
of two-lemons, pound it, and place it in a bowl
with the strained juice, a liqueur-glassful each
of cura9ao and chartreuse, and a quart of
iced hock. Stir well, add two bottles of iced
soda water and serve.

L&ger Beer Cup.
   Rub 2 oz. loaf sugar on to the rind of a large
lemon, pound it, place it in a bowl, add the
thinly pared rind of another lemon, and the
strained juice of both, one and a half gills of
sherry, a sprig of mint, half pint of iced water,
and 2 bottles of iced lager beer and serve.

 Liqueur Cup.
  Put a pint of claret into a jug, add a sliced
lemon, a liqueur-glassful each of cura9ao,kirsch,
brandy and maraschino, 1 oz. castor sugar,
and a pint of water, and let it stand in ice for
one hour before serving.
     28                                    Home-made Beverages.
    ■             vi                               p.
                                                     r                                   i           i     ,                   p      r i t it
                                   tt                                            ir ,                     pi ts                           t r,
         pi t                              r                     ,                    t     t i    si                                                     s,
         spri                                  r                                       i t,          .    s                                               r.
          t it st                                       r                             r,          r s rvi
             tt                                             i                            p      .
                  rs                                p.
                                               .                     s   r  t t    ri                                                                t
                          s, p                              it           p   i        ,                                                               t
    str i                              i           ,                 r rip str    rri s,                                                           spri
                     r             ,                    tt             i     rs ,                                                                   tt
             i                s t              r                t r.

                 s                                 p.
                      t                    tt                        i               .               s             i t                          ,
         i                    r-               ss s                                      r                ,t               t i                 p r
ri                                                                               ,            si           s                   pi         pp ,
             tt                    i                s t                  r                   t r                       s            r t    t st ,
 t                    s rv .

                      r                    p.
                         st            si              s                     r                   ,             p t t                           i t
                    it t                           str i                                     i                                        s.
1                 .s r                              t t                      ri                                                     ,p                  it,
                  p ti t t                                               ,                           t         t i                  p r            ri
•                         t        r                            ,            pi t                         s            rr ,
     pi ts                                                                           ,                         r t                    t               t
t st ,     i                                           ik                             itt                       r s                   r,            t it
             st                            r                                                                           rs, t                   str i
                  s rv .

     i                    pp                            p.
                               pi                   pp ,                                 p t t ri i t    p
     it                        .s                    r                                      pi t  t r, ri t
t      i                                           ski . S i                                         t         pi   pp t i                                ,
si t it it                                            .   t                                          s         r, p    it i
                  , str i t                                     pi                   pp                  s rr p v r it,
     t it st                                            i                    r iv                         r si                        rs, t
                                   rt               i                                k r                       s           ,                        tt
■        i                s                             t r                          s rv .

S                 t r                               p.
                  t                            rt                    i                   s               t r           i t                                ;
r    1 .        s    r    t t ri                                                                                                                          ,
p       it,          it t t   s t r                                                                                                       it        t
str i       i ,       i    ss                                                                                                                  r
      r      ,    si s            r,                                                                                                 spri s
     i t                               r                ,                                    tt s                  i            s                   t r.
                       Cups.                      2^

Sherry Cup.
   Put a pint of sherry into a jug, add a thinly
sliced lemon, six strawberries, half a pint of
champagne, and sugar to taste. Let it stand
in ice for an hour, then add two bottles of iced
soda water and serve.

Sleeping Cup.
  Put 10 cloves, and a dozen coriander seeds
into a small pan,add a pint of water,and simmer
for 20 minutes, then strain and add half a pint
of old rum, and sugar and powdered cinnamon
to taste and serve hot.
Strawberry Cup.
   Rub some ripe strawberries through a hair"
sieve,and put a pint of this puree into a jug. Add
a liqueur-glassful of maraschino, a bottle of
white wine, 6 whole strawberries, and sugar to
taste, and let it stand in ice for an hour before,
using.
Tennis Cup.
  Rub 6 oz. loaf sugar on to the rind of 3lemons,
pound it, and place it in a jug with the strained
juice, two sprigs of borage and verbena, three-
wineglassfuls of brandy and two of ginger syrup.
Let it stand in ice for an hour, and before serving
add four bottles of iced seltzer or soda water.
Wine Cup.
 Put a bottle of iced claret into a jug, add a gill
of brandy, a -wineglassful of maraschino, a
thinly sliced orange, the juice of a lemon, 1 oz.
loaf sugar previously rubbed on the rind of the
lemon and then pounded, 2 slices of cucumber,
4 sprigs of mint, then add a bottle of iced
champagne and "two of iced soda water and
serve.


Zeltlinger Cup.
  Rub 1 oz. lump sugar on to the rind of a lemon,
pound it, and"put it into a bowl with the strained
juice, 2 slices of pineapple, a gill of sherry and
a bottle of Zeltlinger. Let it stand on ice for
an hour and before serving add a bottle of
iced soda water.
30          Home-made Beverages.
Curasao.
  Put 4 oz. thinly pared orange rind into a jar,
pour over it 3 gills of boiling water, and when
cold add 2quarts of brandy and infuse for a fort
night, shaking the jar daily. Boil one and a
half pounds of pure cane sugar and 3gills of water
to a thick syrup, add the filtered brandy and
a few drops of yellow colouring if necessary,
then store in airtight bottles.
Currant Brandy.
  Infuse 4 lb. of red or white currants, 6 cloves,
2 inches of bruised cinnamon, and 3 lb. of
crushed sugar candy in 3 quarts of good brandy
for a month, then filter, and bottle.
Currant Champagne.
  Boil 3 gallons of water and 8 lb. of pure cane
sugar together for ten minutes, skimming when
necessary. Then pour into a tub over 2 quarts
of bruised and stripped white currants and the
same quantity of red ones. Stir well and when
lukewarm add a gill of good yeast. Cover over,
and leave the wine for two or three days, then
strain into a cask and when the fermentation
is ended, add an ounce of dissolved isinglass.
Bung tightly and leave for 8 months before
bottling.
Currant Ratafia.
  Bruise 5 pints of sound ripe red or white
currants, and put them into a jar with an inch
of bruised cinnamon,2 oz. blanched and pounded
bitter almonds, 3 lb. crushed sugar candy, a
blade of mace, and a gallon of good brandy.
Cover the jar tightly and infuse for three months,
then filter and bottle.

Currant Shrub.
  Well bruise 8 lb. of white currants, strew over
them 8oz.cane castor sugar and leave until next
day, then strain the juice, measure it, and put
it into a jar with a pint of good old Jamaica
rum, and 6 oz. crushed sugar candy to every
pint of juice. Let it stand for two days, then
filter into bottles and cork and seal them securely.
Currant Syrup.
  See recipe for Cranberry Syrup.
            Home-made Beverages.                 31
Currant Vinegar.
  See recipe for Black Currant Vinegar. Either
white or red currants or equal quantities of each
may be used.
Currant Water.
  Bruise a gill of raspberries and a pint of
stripped red currants and put them into a
preserving pan with a quart of cold water and
half a pound of sugar. Boil for ten minutes
skimming thoroughly, then strain through a
jelly bag, add a little more sugar if necessary,
and serve when cold.

Currant Whisky.
  Strip and bruise 2 lb. of white currants, and
put them into a jar with one and a half pounds of
crushed sugar candy, half oz. bruised cinnamon,
J oz. cloves, half oz. blanched and pounded bitter
almonds and 2 quarts of good whisky. Infuse
for a month, keeping the jar tightly covered,
and shaking it daily, then filter into bottles and
cork and seal them securely.
Currant Wine, Red or White.
  Strip and bruise 2 gallons of ripe currants,
and put them into a tub with 6 lb. of crushed
cane sugar, and 3 gallons of water. Cover with
a blanket and leave for three days, stirring
from time to time. Strain into a cask,reserving
a little of the liquid to fill up with as the fermen
tation subsides, and when this has quite finished
add a pint of sherry and brandy mixed for every
gallon of wine. Bung tightly, and bottle in
six months time.

Damson Cordial.
  Half fill some wide-mouthed glass bottles
with ripe damsons, allow 4 oz. crushed sugar
candy, 4 cloves, a small vanilla bean, 2 inches
of lemon peel, and a small piece of cinnamon,
and bruised ginger to every pound of fruit, fill
up the bottles with good brandy, cork tightly
and infuse for 6 months,then strain and rebottle.

Damson Gin.
  Prick a quart of sound ripe damsons with a
darning needle and infuse them for 3 months
in a tightly covered jar with 2 quarts of good
unsweetened gin, 24 damson kernels and 2 lb.
32          Home-made Beverages.
crushed sugar candy, shaking occasionally.
Strain through filtering paper and store in air
tight bottles.
Damson. Ratafia.
  Take the kernels from 4 lb. damsons, and
pound them in a mortar with 2 oz. bitter almonds
and a spoonful of brandy. Infuse them for six
weeks in a tightly closed jar with 2 quarts of
good brandy, shaking twice daily. Dissolve
one and a half pounds sugar candy in half a pint
of cold water, add the strained brandy, filter
into bottles, and cork and seal them securely.
Damson Syrup.
  Put some ripe damsons in a jar, place it in a
pot of water, and boil until the juice flows
freely. Strain through a jelly bag, measure
the liquid, allow 1 lb. pure cane sugar to every
pint of juice, and boil together for ten minutes,
skimming carefully. When cold, pour into
bottles, place a little olive oil on the top, and
cork and seal securely. When required remove
the oil with a piece of cotton wool, and dilute
the syrup to taste with plain or aerated water.
Damson Vinegar.
  See recipe for Apricot Vinegar.
Damson Water.
  See recipe for Peach Water.
Damson Wine.
  BoU 16 lb. of pure cane sugar and 21 quarts
of water together for half an hour, removing the
scum as it rises, then add 16 quarts of stalked
and stoned damsons, and boil for 30 minutes
longer, stirring and ^ -skimming frequently.
Strain through a fine sieve into a large bowl, and
when lukewarm add a gill of good yeast, and
let it ferment for three or four days. Draw off
into a cask, filter the lees, and fill up the cask
with them as the fermentation subsides. When
this has ended, add one and a half pints of good
brandy, bung the cask tightly, and leave it for
six months,then rack it off, filter the lees through
a piece of folded flannel, and fill up the cask
again, adding an ounce of isinglass dissolved
in a quart of the wine. Bung securely and
leave for two years, then bottle.
             Home-made Beverages.               33
 Dandelion Wine.
   Put 4 quarts of yellow dandelion petals into
 a tub, pour over them a gallon of boiling water,
cover with a cloth, and let it stand for three
 days, stirring it frequently. Strain the liquid,
 measure it, allow three and a half pounds'of.pure
cane sugar, the thinly pared rind of an orange
and a lemon, and an inch of bruised ginger to
every gallon, and boil together for 30 minutes.
 Add the sliced lemon, and when cool, a piece
of toast spread with yeast, let it stand for 2 or
3 days then draw off into a cask; let it stand
(well bunged down) for two months then bottle.
 Devonshire Drink.
  Put a table-spoonful of lemon syrup into a
glass, add half a pint of hot milk, and powdered
cinnamon and powdered cloves to taste, and
serve.


Eau Sucr^e.
   Sweeten some boiling water to taste, and
serve cold or iced.

Egg and Brandy.
  Add half a small teaspoonful of castor sugar
and a table-spoonful each of brandy and boiling
water to a well beaten fresh egg, strain and serve.
Egg Cordial.
   Whisk the whites of trvo eggs to a very stiff
froth, add half a gill of cream and the same
quantity of brandy, and serve.
Egg Flip (No. 1).
  Pour'a pint of hot ale ongto 3 eggs beaten up
with 2 oz. of sugar, and pour^the"mixture quickly
from one jug to another four or five times, then
serve hot in glasses with a little nutmeg and
ginger grated over the top.
Egg Flip (No. 2).
  Put the yolk of an egg and a small teaspoonful
of castor sugar into a tumbler and beat until
light and creamy, then add a glass of port and
the stifigy whisked white of egg and serve.
Egg Nogg (No. 1).
 Beat the yolks of 2 eggs with half of castor
sugar, then add two table-spoonfuls of whisky
nnd a pint of boiling milk and serve.
34          Home-made Beverages.
Egg Nogg (No. 2).
  Beat up an egg and a small teaspoonful ol
castor sugar, add a large table-spoonful of sherry
and a gill of cream, strain and serve.
Elderberry Wine.
  Strip 14 lb. of elderberries from their stalks,
put them into a tub, mash and bruise them well,
pour over them 6 gallons of boiUng ^water, and
leave for 24 hours, then strain through a jelly
bag, pressing the berries well to obtain all the
juice. Measure the liquid, and put it into a
pan with 3 lb. of pure cane sugar, 1 lb. of
rasins, half-ounce ground ginger, and 5 cloves to
every gallon. Boil for an hour removing the
scum as it rises, and when lukewarm stir in a
gill of yeast and pour into a cask, reserving
about a gallon of liquid to fill up the cask as the
fermentation subsides. Cover the bung-hole
with a cloth or tile, and leave for about a fort
night, then add a quart of brandy, bung the
cask tightly and bottle off in six months' time.
Eldcrflowcr Wine.
  Stone 16 lb. of Malaga raisins, cut them mto
small pieces and put them into a tub with half
a peck of elderflowers. Boil 12 gallons of water
and 32 lb. of pure cane sugar together for 10
minutes, skimming when necessary, then pour
into the tub and stir well. When lukewarm add
half a pint of yeast, cover over and leave until
the following day, then add the thinly pared
rind and strained juice of 8 large lemons, and
let it remain covered up for three days more.
Strain into a clean cask, bung tightly until the
fermentation hqs ended and keep the cask
filled up. When the wine has ceased to hiss, add
half a pint of brandy to every gallon, bung the
cask tightly and leave for six months before
bottling. This wine, like the preceding one,
is usually mulled, and served with sippets of
toast and a little nutmeg grated over it, and is
considered an excellent remedy for a cold.
Eldercttc.
     Mash some ripe sound elderberries and mix
the strained juice with ,an equal quantity of
cold water. AUow a pound of pure cane sugar,4
cloves and haU an mch of bruised cinnamon to
              Home-made Beverages.                35
  every pint of liquid and boil together for ten
  minutes,then strain, addawineglassful of brandy
 to every pint of syrup, and bottle when cold.
 English Champagne.
   Top and tail 3 gallons of unripe yellow goose
 berries, bruise them thoroughly, and put them
 in a tub. Pour over them 3 gallons of water,
 and let them stand for 2 days, stirring frequently,
 then strain and press the pulp thoroughly to
 extract all the juice. Add 12 lb. of pure cane
 sugar, cover over and let it stand for three days
 more, stirring from time to time, then strain into
 a cask, add a pint and a half of good gin and
 half an ounce of isinglass dissolved in a little
 warm water. Bung loosely till the fermenta
 tion has ceased, then close the cask securely and
 let it stand for a year before bottling.
 Fig Syrup.
    Slice 3 lb. ripe sound figs and put them into
 a jar with the thinly pared rind and strained juice
 of 3 lemons, and 3 pints of water. Place the
jar in a pot of boiling water and boU for 3 hours,
 then strain through a jelly bag, add a pound
of cane sugar to every pint and boil together for
10 minutes, skimming when necessary. Let it
 get cold, then store in airtight bottles.
Four-Fruit Liqueur.
  Bruise 1 pound each of black currants and
raspberries, and one and a half pounds each of
strawberries and Morella cherries, and put them
into a jar with half the cherry kernels, 4 quarts
of good brandy and 3 lb. of crushed sugar candy.
Infuse for a month, keeping the jar tightly
covered, then filter and bottle.
Fruit Ratafia.
  Bruise f lb. each of raspberries and straw
berries, three pounds of black cherries, strew
over them 5 oz. of cane castor sugar and let
them stand for 24 hours, then strain off all the
juice, put it into a jar with 1 drachm of bruised
cloves, 4 oz. crushed sugar candy, and a quart
of good brandy, to every pint of juice. Infuse
qr a fortnight, then strain through filtering'
paper and store in airtight bottles.
36           Home-made Beverages.
Fruit Water.
  Pick and niash!4 Ib.'of mixed fruit' and put it
into a pan with 2 lb. of cane sugar and 3 pints
of water. Boil gently for half an hour, skimming
thoroughly, then strain through a jeUy bag
until clear. Serve cold or iced, or it^may be
bottled with the addition of a'gill of brandy to
every quart of syrup.
Ginger Beer.
  Put the thinly pared rind and strained juice
of 7 large fresh lemons into an earthenware bowl,
add a quarter of a pound of bruised whole
ginger,5 pounds of pure cane sugar and one ounce
of cream of tartar. Pour over them 5 gallons of
boiling water and when tepid stir in a gill of
fresh brewer's yeast. Cover the bowl and let it
stand for 24 hours in a warm place, then skim
off the yeast, drain the beer carefully from the
sediment, pour it into bottles and cork and
wire them securely. The beer will be fit to
drink in two days' time.
Ginger Beer Powders.
  Mix 4 drachms of white powdered sugar, 12
grains of Jamaica ginger, 52 grains of bicarbon-
ate^of soda and 2;rdrops of [essence of lemon
together, and wrap in blue paper. "Wrap 60
grains of powdered citric acid in white paper,
and when required dissolve each powder in
one and a half gUls of water, mix the two, and
drink whilst effervescing.
Ginger Brandy.                            .
     Infuse one and a half ounces bruised ginger and
3 oz. pure cane sugar in a quart of good brandy
for a month, then filter and bottle.
Ginger Cordial.
  Put 2 oz. crushed ginger, the thmly pared
rind and strained juice of 3 lemons and a quart
 of good old Jamaica rum into a jar. Cover
 closely and infuse for a month. Boil 12 oz.
 cane sugar and a gill of water together for 10
 minutes, skimming when necessary, let it get
 cold and then add the filtered rum, and store in
 airtight bottles.
 Gingcrcttc.
     Bruise 2 lb. of ripe sound white currants.
 and put them into a jar with the thinly pared
           Home-made Beverages.                  3^
rind of two lemons, one and a half ounces bruised
ginger, 12 oz. crushed sugar candy and a quart
of good unsweetened gin. Infuse for a fortnight,
then strain through filtering paper and bottle.
Ginger Flip.
  Boil a pint of mild ale with J oz. of grated
ginger and 3 oz. sugar, pour on to two well
beaten eggs, stir welband serve hot.
Ginger Syrup.
  Boil 8 oz. bruised ginger, the thinly pared rind
and strained juice of a lemon, 3 pints of water
and 3 pounds of cane sugar together for half an
hour, skimming thoroughly, then strain and when
cold bottle for use.

Ginger Whisky.
  Bruise one and a half ounces ginger and the
same quantity of juniper berries and infuse them
for a fortnight in a tightly covered jar with a
quart of whisky and f lb. crushed sugar candy,
then filter and bottle.

Ginger Wine.
  Boil 9 lb. of pure cane sugar, 3 gallons of
water, 4 oz. bruised ginger, 4 oz. stoned and
halved raisins, and the thinly pared rind of 4
lemons and a Seville orange together for an
hour, removing the scum as it rises. Pour into a
tub and leave until next day, then add half-ounce
of isinglass, the strained juice of the lemons^and
orange, and half a gill of fresh brewer's^ yeast.
Mix well, pour into a cask, stir every dayiand
keep it filled up as the fermentation subsides.
When the hissing noise has quite ceased, add
a pint of good brandy,bung the cask tightly and
leave for three months before bottling.
Goldwasser.
  Boil 3 lb. of pure cane sugar and 3 pints of
water together for five minutes, skimming when
necessary, then let it get cold.j, Mix togetherj'2
quarts of pure rectified spirits of wine, 16 drops
of oil of citron, 12 drops of oil of cinnamon, 6
drops of oil of roses and 24 drops of oil of aniseed.
Then add the syrup, strain through filtering
paper, and before bottling add],two squares of
gold leaf broken into very tiny pieces.
 38         Home-made Beverages.
 Gooseberry Cordial.
  Put a pint of fresh gooseberry juice into a jar
with a quart of good unsweetened gin, half an
inch of bruised cinnamon, 4 cloves, a strip of
lemon rind and f lb. crushed sugar candy.
Cover closely and infuse for a month, shaking
the jar occasionally, then filter and bottle.
Gooseberry Ratafia.
  Bruise five pints of sound ripe gooseberries
and put them into a large jar with an inch of
bruised cinnamon, 2 blades of mace, 2 oz. each
of blanched and shredded bitter and sweet
almonds, 3 lb. of crushed sugar candy and a
gallon of good brandy. Cover the jar, infuse
for 3 months, shaking frequently, then strain
through filtering paper and store in airtight
bottles.

Gooseberry Syrup.
  See recipe for Cranberry Syrup.
Gooseberry Vinegar.
  See recipe for Cranberry Vinegar.
Gooseberry Water.
   Boil a quart of topped and tailed gooseberries,
a quart of water and thinly pared rind of a lemon
together for half an hour, then strain till clear,
add the juice of the lemon and sugar to taste
and serve cold.
Gooseberry Wine.
  See recipe for Currant Wine.
Grape Brandy.
  Pick some ripe sound grapes and three parts
fill some wide-mouthed glass bottles with them,
adding 2 oz. crushed sugar candy to every pound
of grapes. Fill up the bottles with good brandy,
cork and seal them securely, and leave for 5
months, then strain and rebottle.
Grape Wine.
  Take 20 lb. of grapes before they are fully
ripe, put them into a clean tub with their stalks,
and break them up thoroughly with a wooden
mallet or pestle. Add 5 gallons of cold water,
cover the tub, and leave for three days, stirring
frequently, then strain and measure the liquid,
allow 3J lb. of cane loaf sugar to every gallon.
           Home-made Beverages.                39

and when dissolved pour into a cask, reserving
about half a gallon to fill up with as the fer-
mentation subsides. Let the wine stand for
about ten days, when the hissing noise will
have ceased, then add a pint of good brandy
and half oz. of dissolved gelatine to every five
gallons of wine. The wine should be bottled
the following year when the vines are in bloom,
and the corks must be securely sealed down.
Grape Wine (Unfcrmentcd).
  Put 15 lb. of stalked grapes into a preserr'ing
pan with a pint of water, and cook until the
pulp and stones have separated. Strain through
a jelly bag, add four and a half lb. of cane loaf
sugar, and stir over a gentle heat till it comes to
boUing point, removing the scum as it rises.
While still hot, pour into bottles, cork them
tightly, and seal with bottling wax.
Greengage Brandy.
   See Recipe for Peach Brandy, but allow 12
fine ripe greengages to a quart of brandy.
 Greengage Liqueur.
  Prick some sound ripe greengages, and three-
parts fill some wide-mouthed glass bottles with
them. Add 4 oz. crushed sugar candy,6 bruised
kernels and 2 cloves to every pound of fruit, fill
 up with pure rectified spirits of wine, cork the
 bottles tightly and infuse for 3 months, then
strain and rebottle.
 Greengage Noyeau.
   See recipe for Peach Noyeau {No. 2).
 Greengage Ratafia.
   See recipe for Apricot Ratafia.
 Greengage Shrub.
   Slice 2 lb. of sound ripe greengages, and put
 them into a jar with half their kernels, 2 quarts
 of good old Jamaica rum,a pound of crushed sugar
 candy, and the thinly pared rind of a lemon.
 Cover the jar closely, and let it stand for 6
 weeks, shaking it from time to time, then strain
 and bottle.

Greengage Syrup.
  See recipe for Apricot Syrup.
        40                           Home-made Beverages.
        Greengage Vinegar,
          See recipe for Apricot Vinegar.
        Greengage Water.
         See recipe for Cherry Water.
        Greengage Whisky.
          See recipe for Cherry Whishy.
    Greengage Wine.
     See recipe for Peach Wine.
    Gruel.
         Mix an ounce of fine oatmeal smoothly with
    a little cold water, then add a pint of boiling
    water or milk, return to the pan and stir until
    it boils. Simmer gently for 20 minutes, then
    serve with sugar and cream or milk.
    Hautboy Liqueur.
    (■ S i                           .                     t               str                    rri s,                  p t
    t                 i t                         r       it       t                 v        i                      s,
                                         .     r s                                   s            r                  , t
t i                p r                ri                                                          t                  rts
p r                  it               spirit. S sp                                   r s                                       i
                  ri t                   r r   t                               rk, t ki                          r t               t
    it            s             t t                   t                t         ts,                         v       it            r
             r s, t                               t k it                    t,            rk t                   r             i
         i k , i    s                              r                       t                  r, t                        it r
                      tt     .

                                                  .
                                              p                            .         itt r                           s
                 . s             t                        s,         p t t                              i t                        r
        it                  .                                      s   r,                              rts
         s             t                      i , t                t i                   p r               ri
str i                            i                    t r                            s,                          pi t
                      i k pr vi                       s            i                     it                  .             i
                  .           v r t                         r,         i                 s             r t                     s,
s            ki            it    i , t                             str i                 t r                     i t ri
p p r ti                                 r,               st r i                 irti              t       tt s.
         p                  r.
              i 1                  .                      ps                                           s         t r
t            t r                r t r                 -     rt rs                                          r,
p              s                r                          s     r,                                         iss v
str i             i t                    t    .                                k               r
pi t                            st                        v            r                       rs t              r             t,
t                ski ,                            r                t             i            i i t                   tt s.
         rk s               r                                  v           r                                 s                 r
    ri ki              .
           Home-made Beverages.                41

Hops and Sherry Cordial.
  Fillsome wide-mouthed glass bottles with hops,
cover them with sherry, cork the bottles tightly,
and infuse for a month, then strain. Boil a
pint of water, and 2 lb. of cane sugar together
for ten minutes, skim, and when cold, sweeten
the sherry to taste with the syrup, pour into
bottles and cork and seal them securely.

Hop Tea.
  Put 3 oz. of hops into a jug with a quart of-
boiling water, cover over and leave until cold,
then strain and bottle for use. This is considered
to be an excellent tonic, and is sometimes
taken as a remedy for dyspepsia.
Hyssop Tea.
  Pour a pint of boiling water over a quarter of
an ounce of dried hyssop flowers, cover the
jug and let it stand for 15 minutes, then strain
and sweeten to taste with honey.

Imperial Liqueur.
  Peel and bruise a small ripe pineapple, and
put it into a preserving pan with 10 ripe magnum
bonum plums, and 8 jargonelle pears cut into
quarters. Add 3 pounds of cane sugar and a
pint and a half of water to every two pounds of
fruit, and boil together for 45 minutes,removing
the scum as it rises. When cold, add a bottle
of hock and a gill of brandy, and infuse in a
covered jar for six weeks, then strain through
a jelly bag and store in tightly corked and
sealed bottles.

Imperial Water.
  Put a quarter of an ounce of cream of tartar
into a heated jug with 2 oz. loaf sugar previously
rubbed on to the rinds of two large fresh lemons.
Add a pint and a half of boiling water, cover
the jug and let it stand near the fire for an hour,
stirring occasionally. When cold, strain and
serve.


Italian Liqueur.
  Infuse 20 grains of cinnamon, 5 grains of
vanilla and 5 of cloves, in 2 drachms of spirits
of wine for a fortnight in a tightly corked bottle,
then add a gill of rose water, and 12 oz. crushed
sugar candy dissolved in half a pint of water.
 42            Home-made Beverages.

 and colour with one or two drops of cochineal.
 Mix well together, strain through filtering paper
 and bottle.

 Juniper Liqueur.
   Bruise 4 oz. of juniper berries and put them
into a bottle with 4 oz. crushed sugar candy and
a quart of good brandy. Cork tightly and infuse
for a fortnight, shaking the bottle daily, then
strain through filtering paper and rebottle.
King William's Posset.
  Beat the yolks of 3 eggs and the white of one
together till light and frothy, then add a gill of
ale, half a pint of cream, and sugar and grated
nutmeg to taste. Stir over the fire till the
mixture is thick but not boiling, then serve at
once.


Kummel.
  Bruise 2 oz. of cairaway seeds,and infuse them
for a month in 2 quarts of unsweetened gin with
4 oz. of cane loaf sugar. Keep the jar tightly
closed, and shake it every day, and when ready
strain the liqueur through filtering paper, and
store it in tightly corked and sealed bottles.
Lait de Poule.
  Well beat the yolks of two large eggs and a
small table-spoonful of castor sugar, then add a
table-spoonful of orange flower and 2 gills of
boiling water and serve.
Lait Sucr6.
  Simmer the thinly pared rind of two large
lemons in 3 pints of milk for ten minutes, then
strain, sweeten to taste and serve cold.
Lemon Brandy.
  Put the thinly pared rinds of 4 large lemons
into a bottle, add a pint of good brandy, cork
tightly, and infuse for 6 weeks, shaking occasion
ally, then strain through filtering paper. Boil
4 oz. pure cane sugar and a gill of water together
for five minutes, skim, and when cold add it to
the brandy. Pour into a bottle, and cork and
seal securely.
Lemon Gin.
  Pare very thinly the rind of 16 lemons, and
place them in a jar with 1 gallon of good un-
            Home-made leverages.                 43

sweetened gin. Cover the jar closely, and steep
for a month, then strain and add 1 lb. of crushed
sugar candy. Leave for a week until the sugar
is thoroughly dissolved, stirring occasionally,
then filter into bottles, and cork and seal them.

Lemon Juice.
  Strain the juice from some fine fresh lemons
into 'Small bottles, ipour over it a little olive
oil, cork the bottles and seal them with bottling
wax. When required, remove the oil with-a
piece of cotton wool, sweeten to taste, and dilute
with plain or aerated water.
Lemon Kali.
  Mix together 10 oz. sifted sugar, 6 oz. powdered
bicarbonate of potash, and 5 oz. powdered
and iiried citric acid. Keep in a tightly corked
bottle, and when required add 2 teaspoonfuls
to a tumbler of water.

Lemon Liqueur.
  Put the very thinly pared rind of four large
lemons into a jar, add one and a half pints of
pure rectified spirits of wine,cover the jar closely,
and steep for a fortnight, shaking it once or
twice a day. Boil 1 lb. of pure cane sugar in
one and a half pints of water for 5 minutes,
skim, and let it get cold. Strain the spirits of
wine, add the syrup and the strained juice of
the lemons, pour into bottles, and cork and seal
securely.
 Lemon Ratafia.
   Put the thinly pared rind of6 large lemons into
a jar, add a quart of good brandy, 2 oz. blanched
and pounded sweet almonds, 1 oz. of blanched
and pounded bitter almonds, and 6 oz. crushed
sugar candy. Infuse for three weeks, keeping
the jar tightly covered and shaking it occasionally,
 then strain and bottle.

 Lemon Sherbet.
   Rub 12 oz. of loaf sugar on the rind of 6
 lemons, and put it into a jug with the strained
 juice and a pint and a half of boiling water.
 Cover over and let it stand till cold, stirring
 occasionally, then serve. If liked, the sherbet
 may be iced before serving.
      44         Home-made Beverages.

      Lemon Squash,
0.      Rub 10 oz. of loaf sugar on the rind of 8 large
-    juicy lemons, and put it into a pan with the
     strained juice and a pint of water. Stir over
     the fire until the sugar is dissolved, then whisk
     the crushed shell and beaten white of an egg
     into the syrup, bring to boiling point and simmer
     very gently for ten minutes. Strain through a
     jelly bag, add J oz. of citric acid, and store in
     tightly corked bottles. When required, dilute
      with iced soda water.

     Lemon Shrub.
        Pare very thinly the rind of 16 lemons, put
     it into a jar or cask with 9 lb. pure cane sugar,
     5 quarts of good Jamaica rum, and 1 quart of
     lemon juice. Infuse for three weeks, shaking
     it every day, then filter into bottles, and cork
     and seal them.

     Lemon Syrup,
       Boil three-quarters of a pound of cane loaf
     sugar and a quart of water together for a
     quarter of an hour, removing the scum as it rises.
     When cold add half a pint of lemon juice and
     one drachm of essence of lemon.        Pour into
     bottles, and cork and seal them securely. When
     required, dilute to taste with soda or plain water.
     Lemon Tea.
       Make half a pint of tea, add the same quantity
     of lemonade, sweeten to taste, and serve hot,
     cold, or iced.

     Lemon Water,
       Rub half announce of loaf sugar on to the
     rind of a large juicy lemon, and put it into a
     jug with the strained juice,two table-spoonfuls
     of capillaire, and 2 pints of boiling water. Let
     it stand until cold, then serve.

     Lemon Whey,
       Boil a pint of milk, add 2 table-spoonfuls of
     strained lemon juice, and cook until the curd
     separates, then strain, add sugar to taste, and
     serve hot or cold.

     Lemon Whisky,
       Put the thinly pared rind and strained juice of
     four large lemons into a jar with a quart of good
           Home-made Beverages.                  45

wMsky, and 12 oz. of crushed sugar candy.
Infuse for a month, keeping the jar tightly
covered, and shaking it daily, then strain through    «
filtering paper, pour into bottles, cork them             N^
tightly, and seal with bottling wax.
Lemon Vlinc (No. 1).
  Boil 8 lb. pure cane sugar with two gallons
of water for half an hour, then add the thinly
pared rind of 12 lemons, and pour into a tub.
When lukewarm stir in the strained juice of 20
lemons, place a piece of toast spread with yeast
on the top, and leave for two or three days until
fermentation has begun, then remove the rind,
put the liquid into a cask, reserving about half
a gallon to keep the cask filled up as the fer
mentation subsides. When the hquor has
ceased to work, bung the cask up tightly, and
bottle off in three months' time.
 Lemon Wine (No. 2).
   Put the thinly pared rind of 25 lemons and
 the juice and pulp (freed from pips and white
 pith) of 50 lemons into a tub, add four and a
 half gallons of cold water, cover over and leave
 for a week, stirring frequently. Stram mto a
 cask, add 16 lb. of pure cane sugar, bung the
 cask' tightly and keep it filled up till the fer
 mentation is ended, then add half an ounce of
 isinglass dissolved in a pint of brandy. Bung
 securely, and bottle ofi in six months' time.
 Lemonade.
    Wash and dry three large fresh lemons, pare
 them very thinly, and put the rind into a ]ug W
 with the strained juice of the lemons, 4 oz. sugar
 and 1 quart of boiling water. Stir until the
 sugar is dissolved, then cover the jug, and stram
 when cold.

  Lemonade, Dried.
   Take 12 oz. of cane loaf sugar, and rub it on
 to the rinds of 4 large fresh lemons, until all
 the zest is extracted. Pound and sieve the
 sugar, mix it thoroughly with 2 oz. of tartanc
 acid then place in a glass bottle, and cork and
 seal securely. Dilute with plain or aerated
 water, allowing a large teaspoonful of the powder
  to every tumbler of liquid.
  46          Hotne-made Beverages.
  Lemonade, Effervescing.
   Put half a pint of lemon juice, and 1 lb. of
   pure cane sugar into a clean pan, and boil until
  the sugar is dissolved. Strain into small bottles,
  cork and seal with bottling wax. When required,
  add a large table-spoonful of the syrup to a small
  tumbler of water, and stir in eighteen or twenty
  grains of carbonate of soda.
  Lemonade, Egg.
    Rub six lumps of loaf sugar on to the rind of
  three large lemons, until all the zest is extracted,
  then place them in a jug with 5 oz. loaf sugar
  and 1 piat of boiling water. When cold, add
 1 gill of sherry, the same quantity of lemon
 juice, and 4 well beaten eggs, then strain and
 use.


 Lemonade for Invalids.
   Well beat the yolks of two eggs, two teaspoon-
 fuls of castor sugar, and the strained juice of two
 lemons. Add the stiffly whisked whites of the
 eggs, and a bottle of soda water and serve.

 Lemonade, Iced.
   Boil a quart of water with 1 lb. of loaf sugar
 and the very thinly pared rinds of ten lemons.
 When cold, add the juice of the lemons, and
 2 quarts of cold water, strain into a jug, and
 bury in ice and salt until required. If liked,
 thin slices of lemon may be added before serving.
 Lemonade, Imitation.
   Put 12 oz. loaf sugar, half oz. tartaric acid,
and 8 drops of essence of lemon into a jug. Add
2 quarts of boiling water, mix well, and use when
cold.

Lemonade Powders.
  Mix 2 pounds of powdered white sugar, f oz.
of citric acid, and J oz. of lemon essence well
together, and store in an airtight bottle. When
required, add half a teaspoonful to a glass of
water.

Linseed Tea.
  Simmer 2 oz. of linseed, the thinly pared rind
of a small lemon, a quart of water and I oz. of
liquorice together for 30 minutes, then strain,
add the lemon juice and sweeten to taste. This
is an old-fashioned remedy for a cold.
           Home-made Beverages.                 47

Liqueur Syrups.
  Boil a pound of sugar and a pint of water till
thick, removing the scum as it rises, then add
suf&cient liqueur to flavour it strongly, and when
cold, store it in airtight bottles.   If too sweet,
a little strained lemon juice may be added.
When required, dilute to taste with plain or
aerated water.

Mandarine.
  Infuse 4 oz. of very thinly pared Mandarine
orange rind in a quart of pure rectified spirits
of wine for 2 months. Boil a pint of water and
a pound of sugar together for 10 minutes, skim,
and when cold add it to the spirits with a few
drops of orange-flower water. Strain through
filtering paper, and store in tightly corked and
sealed bottles.

Maraschino, Imitation.
  Stone 12 lb. of Morella cherries, bruise the
fruit and the kernels, and put them into a large
jar with two gallons of pure rectified spirits
of wine, and nine pounds of crushed sugar candy.
Bruise five pounds of fresh clean peach leaves,
6 oz. of white rose petals, and 2 oz. each of
orange flower and white jessamine flowers in a
mortar, and add them to the other ingredients.
Cork the jar tightly and infuse for 6 weeks,
stirring cocasionally, then strain through filter
ing paper and store in airtight bottles.
Marshmallow Tea.
   Clean and peel 2 oz. of marshmallow roots,
slice them thinly, and infuse for two hours in a
covered jug, with a quart of boiling water.
Strain, add lemon juice and honey to taste and
serve. This is considered an old-fashioned
remedy for a cough.
May Liqueur.
 Gather the hawthorn blossoms on a fine day,
strip the leaves and stems from them, and fill
some wide-mouthed glass bottles with the
flowers. Fill up the bottles with good brandy,
 and allow 2 oz. of crushed sugar candy to
 every pint of spirit. Cork the bottles tightly
 and leave them for three months, then filter
 and rebottle.
  48          Home-made Beverages.
 Mead.
    Put6quarts of water and two and a half pounds
 of honey into a pan, add half a teaspoonful of
 powdered cinnamon, a small blade of mace, half
 an inch of bruised ginger, 2 cloves, and the
  beaten whites of two eggs. Whisk frequently
 till the ingredients come to boiling point, then
 simmer gently, for 1 hour. When lukewarm
 strain into a cask, add a small table-spoonful of
 yeast, and cover the bung-hole with a folded
 cloth till the fermentation has ended. Bung the
 cask tightly and bottle the mead in 9 months'
 time.

 Mead Wine.
   Boil 5 gallons of water and 20 pounds of
 honey together for one hour,then pour into a tub
 and when lukewarm add a gill of yeast. Cover
 the tub with a folded cloth or blanket and leave
for four or five days to ferment,then strain into
a cask, add six thinly sliced lemons, and leave
until the liquid is perfectly still, keeping the
cask filled up as the fermentation subsides.
When this has ended, add a pint of brandy, bung
the cask tightly and leave for 12 months before
bottling.
Milk Whey.
   Warm a quart of milk to 98 degrees Fahr., add
sufficient rennet to turn it, and leave in a warm
place till the curd has formed. Drain off the
whey, and sweeten and flavour it to taste, or
serve plain.
Mulberry Brandy.
  Put a quart of sound ripe mulberries into a jar
with a quart of good brandy, and 6 oz. crushed
sugar candy. Infuse for a month, keeping the
jar well covered, then strain and bottle.
Mulberry Gin.
  See Recipe for Blackberry Gin.
Mulberry Liqueur.
  Put a pint and a half of fresh ripe mulberries
into a jar, add a quart of pure rectified spirits of
wine, 6 oz. crushed sugar candy, half-inch of
bruised cinnamon and 3 cloves.       Infuse for a
month, then filter and bottle.
              Hotne-7nade Beverages.              49
 Mulberry Ratafia.
    See Recipe for Gooseberry Ratafia.
 Mulberry Shrub.
   See recipe for Currant Shrub.
 Mulberry Syrup.
   See recipe for Cranberry Syrup.

 Mulberry Vinegar.             >
    Put 3 pounds of ripe sound mulberries into
 an unglazed earthenware vessel, pour over
 them 2 quarts of white mne vinegar, cover
 lightly to keep out the dust, and linfuse for a
 week, stirring and mashing the berries fre
 quently, then strain, add a pound of pure cane
 sugar to every pint of liquid, and boil together
 for 10 minutes, removing the scum as it rises,
 then store in airtight bottles when cold.
 Mulberry Water.
  Crush a pound of ripe mulberries, and put
them into a jug with a pint of boiling water and
sugar to taste. Let it stand till cold,then strain
and serve.

 Mulberry Whisky.
   Boil nine pints of sound ripe mulberries and
two pounds of cane sugar together for twenty
minutes, then strain through a jelly bag into
a large jar and when cold add 2 quarts of old
whisky, the strained juice of a lemon, 2 oz. of
crushed sugar candy, half a sliced nutmeg, an
inch of bruised cinnamon, and a quarter of an
ounce of cloves. Cover the jar closely, and
infuse for 6 months, then strain through filter
ing paper till clear, and bottle.
Mulberry Wine.
  Bruise three gallons of ripe sound mulberries,
put them into a tub, pour over them 3 gallons
of water and leave for 24 hours,stirring frequently.
Strain through a sieve and to every gallon of the
liquid add 4 lb. of cane sugar, pour into the
tub again, cover with a blanket and leave for
four or five days to ferment, then strain into a
cask, reserving about half a gallon to fill up
as the fermentation subsides. When the liquid
has quite ceased working, add 1 oz. of dissolved •
50           Home-made Beverages.
isinglass and a quart of brandy, bung the cask
tightly and leave for twelve months before
bottling.
Mulled Wine.
  Boil 6 cloves, a quarter of an ounce of bruised
cinnamon, a little grated nutmeg and the thinly
pared rind of half a lemon in half a pint of water
for ten minutes, then strain, add one and a half
pints of wine (usually port or claret) and sugar
to taste, bring nearly to boiling point and serve
with wine biscuits or thin sippets of dry toast.
Nectar (No. 1).
  Rub half a pound of loaf sugar on the rind
of a lemon, and put it into an earthenware jar,
pour over it 2 quarts of boiling water and when
cold add the strained juice of the lemons, and
4 oz. of stoned and chopped raisins. Cover
over and let it stand for a week, stirring two
or three times daily. Strain through a jelly
bag until clear, and either use at once or store
in bottles for a few days.
Nectar (No. 2).
  Put a pound of stoned and chopped raisins
into a jar, add the thinly pared rind and strained
juice of two lemons and a gallon of boiling water.
Stir frequently till cold, then add a quart of rum,
cover the jar and infuse for a week, shaking
occasionally. Press through a sieve, and leave
the liquid for a week to settle, then filter and
bottle.

Nectarine Brandy.
  See Recipe for Peach Brandy.
Nectarine Cordial.
     See recipe for Apricot Cordial.
Nectarine Gin.
     See recipe for Apricot Gin.
Nectarine Noyeau.
  Blanch 4 oz. of nectarine kernels, pound them
in a mortar and put them into a quart bottle.
Fill up with good brandy, then cork tightly
and infuse in a warm place for 4 days, shaking
frequently. Crush 12 oz. of sugar candy to a
fine powder, and stir it into the strained brandy.
 When dissolved, filter and bottle.
             Home-made leverages.                   51

Nectarine Ratafia.
   See recipe for Peach Ratafia.
Nectarine Shrub,
  See recipe for Cherry Liqueur.
Nectarine Syrup.
   See recipe for Apricot Syrup.
Nectarine Vinegar.
  See recipe for Apricot Vinegar.
Nectarine Water.
   See recipe for Peach Water.
Nectarine Whisky.
  See recipe for Cherry Whisky.
Nectarine Wine.
   See recipe for Peach Wine.
Negus.
  Rub 3 oz. of loaf sugar on to the rind of a
lemon, pound it, and add to it a pint of port,
a quarter of a small nutmeg grated, a pint of
boiling water, and if liked one or two drops of
essence of ambergris or rather more of vanilla.
Serve hot.

Nettle Beer.
   Boil"a full half-peck of young nettle tops and
2 lb. of malt in a gallon of water for half an
hour, then add 2 oz. of sarsaparilla, 12 oz. of
cane sugar, and 1 oz. of hops. When lukewarm,
stir in a table-spoonful of yeast, and bottle off
while still fermenting.
Noyeau. (No. 1.)
   Put the thinly pared rind of two and the
strained juice of 1 lemon into a jar, add 3 pounds
of cane loaf sugar, J oz. bruised cinnamon, half
a pound of blanched and pounded bitter almonds,
add a pint of boiling milk, stir until the sugar is
dissolved and when cold pour in 3 quarts of good
brandy. Cover the jar closely, and infuse for
3 weeks,shaking it daily, then filter and bottle.
Noyeau. (No. 2.)
   Blanch and pound one and a half oz. each of
bitter and sweet almonds, put them into a jar
with 12 oz. of crushed sugar candy and a quart
of pure rectified spirits of wine, cover closely and
infuse for a fortnight, then filter and bottle.
   52         Home-made Beverages.
   Nutritive Water.
     Beat up two eggs with a table-spoonful of
   castor sugar, then add the strained juice of a
   small lemon, 3 gills of cold water and a gill of
   sherry, and strain and serve.
   Orangeade, Fresh.
' .• Boil J lb. sugar and 1 pint of water together,
  pour on to the thinly pared rind of three oranges,
  and when cold stir in the juice of 12 oranges.
   Strain into a jug, and add 3 pints of cold water.
   This is much improved by icing.
  Orangeade, Bottled.
    Infuse the thinly pared rind and juice of 5
   oranges in two pints of pure rectified spirits of
   wine for six weeks, shaking it twice a day, and
  covering it closely. Strain through muslin into
  bottles, and cork and seal them closely. When
  required, sweeten to taste, and "dilute with
   plain or aerated water.
  Orange Brandy.
    Infuse the thinly pared rind of three Seville
  oranges, and 1 gill of strained juice in a quart of
  good brandy for three days, then add lO oz. pure
  cane sugar. Let it stand for 24 hours, filter
  through paper until quite clear, and store in
  airtight bottles. This brandy improves with
  keeping.
  Orange Gin.
    Put the thinly pared rind of six Seville oranges,
  the strained juice, half lb. crushed sugar candy,
  and 2 quarts of good unsweetened gin into a
  jar, cover it closely, and let it infuse for three
  weeks," shaking it every day. Filter into bottles,
  cork them tightly, and seal with bottling wax.
  Orange Liqueur.
    Infuse the thinly pared rind and strained
  juice of 2 Seville oranges, and 6 cloves, in one
  and a half pints of pure rectified spirits of wine
  for a month in a closely covered jar, shaking it
  every day. Boil half a pint of water and IJ
  lb. pure cane sugar together for 5 minutes,
  skim, and when cold, add it to the other in
  gredients in the jar. Leave for another month,
  then strain through filtering paper and store in
  airtight bottles.
                                •\

           Home-made Beverages.               53

Orange Ratafia.
  Put the thinly pared rind of 7 Seville oranges
into a jar, dissolve 1 lb. pure cane sugar in the
strained juice of the oranges, and add it to the
rind with 2 quarts of good brsindy. Infuse
the pips of the oranges in 1 gill of water for
2 days, then strain into the jar, cover closely,
and let it all stand for a month.     Filter into
small bottles, and cork and seal them securely.

Orange Shrub.
  Boil 1 pint of strained orange juice and 2 lb.
pure cane sugar together for five minutes, skim,
and when cold put it into a large jar with a
quart of good Jamaica rum. Cover closely and
let it stand for six weeks, shaking it twice daily
for the first fortnight, then filter and store in
airtight bottles.
Orange Syrup.
  See recipe for Lemon Syrup.
Orange Water.
  See recipe for Lemon Water.
Orange Whisky.
  See recipe for Lemon Whisky.
Orange Wine.
  Boil 8 pounds of cane sugar, 2 gallons of          ,
 water and the beaten whites and crushed shells      |
                                                     |
of two eggs gently together for 20 minutes, and
wh'en lukewarm strain through a jelly bag, add
the strained juice of 26 Seville oranges and a
large table-spoonful of yeast. Pour into a tub,
 cover over and leave for 24 hours, then draw off
 into a cask, and keep it filled up and lightly
 bunged till the fermentation has subsided.
 Bung securely and leave for 3 months, then
 rack it off into another cask, add half a pint of
 brandy, and leave it tightly bunged for 12
 months before bottling.
 Orange-Flower Ratafia.
   Infuse 4 oz. of fresh orange flowers in 6 pints
 of good brandy for a week. Boil a pound of
 cane sugar and a pint of water together for 5
 minutes, skim and when cold add it to the
 brandy. Mix weU, filter into bottles, and
 cork and seal them securely.
  54          Home-made Beverages.
  Orange-Flower Syrup.
    Put 2 oz. of freshly picked orange flowers into
  a jug, pour in a pint of boiling water, cover over
  and leave until cold. Place in a preserving
  pan with a pound of pure cane sugar and boil
  for 10 minutes, then strain and when cold add
  a gUl of brandy and bottle for use. When re
  quired, dilute with plain or aerated water.
  Orange-Flower Tea.
   Infuse 2 oz. of orange flowers in a pint^of
  boiling water for five or ten minutes, then strain
  and sweeten to taste.

  Orgeat Syrup.
    Blanch and pound 4 oz. of sweet almonds^and
  an ounce of bitter almonds with a few drops of
  orange-flower water. Add gradually a pint of
 cold water, a pound and a quarter of castor
 sugar, half a teaspoonful of lemon essence, and
 a large table-spoonful of orange-flower water.
 Leave in a warm place for 6 hours, then boil for
 15 minutes, strain (pressing the almonds well to
 extract aU the milk) and bottle for use. When
 required, dilute with cold water.
 Parsnip Wine.
   Clean and slice 8 pounds of sound parsnips
 and boil them till soft in 2 gallons of water,
 then strain and add half an ounce of crude
 tartar and 3 pounds of cane sugar to every
 gaUon. When lukewarm, put in a piece of toast
 spread with yeast, cover over and leave for
 4 days in a warm place,then strain into a cask,
 and bung closely when it has ceased working.
 Bottle in six months' time.
 Peach Brandy.
    Slice 8 ripe peaches and put them into a jar
- with a quart of good brandy, 8 oz. crushed
  sugar candy, and the bruised kernels. Cover
 the jar closelji, and infuse for 6 weeks, shaking
 the jar daily, then strain and bottle.
Peach Noyeau. (No. I.)
  Take 8 oz. of young peach leaves gathered
in dry weather. Pick them carefully, rejecting
any blighted ones, place them in a jar with 2
quarts of good whisky and a pound of crushed
sugar candy, infuse for three days, then filter
and bottle.
           Home-made Beverages.              55

Peach Noycau. CNo. 2.)
  Put 4 oz. bruised peach kernels into a jar,
add a quart of brandy and infuse for a fortnight,
then strain. Boil a pound of pure cane sugar
andhalf a pint of water together forfive minutes,
skim, and when cold, add it to the brandy.
Pour into bottles, cork tightly and seal v,dth
bottling wax.
Peach Ratafia.
  Slice some ripe sound peaches, strew over
them 1 oz. castor sugar to every pint of fruit,
and let them stand for-24 hours. Strain all the
juice from the peaches, measure it, allow a quart
of good brandy, 2 cloves, an inch of cinnamon,
3oz. bruised peach kernels and half apound pure
 cane sugar to every pint of juice, and infuse all
 these ingredients together for three weeks, then
 filter and bottle.

 Peach Syrup.
   See recipe for Apricot Syrup.
 Peach Vinegar.
   See recipe for Apricot Vinegar.
 Peach Water.
   Slice one and a half pounds of ripe peaches,and
 put them into a basin with'their bruised kernels.
 Pour over them 3 pints of boiling water, add
 sugar to taste, cover the basin; when cold,strain,
 ice and serve. If liked, a little peach brandy,
 noyeau, or ratafia may be added.
 Peach Wine.
    Slice 24 lb. of ripe peaches, place them in a
 large bowl with 5 lb. pure cane sugar sprinkled
  over them, and let them stand for 24 hours.
  BoU 8 lb. of pure cane sugar, 5 gallons of water,
  and the stifily whisked whites of 5 eggs to
  gether for 20 minutes, skimming frequently,
  then add the sliced peaches and sugar and boil
  till the fruit is reduced to a pulp, skimming
  when necessary. Crush the peach stones, put
  them into a tub, and pour the contents of the
  pan over them, and when lukewarm add a gill
  of yeast. Cover with a cloth or blanket, and
  leave for three or four days, then strain into
  a cask, reserving about a gallon of the liquid
  to fill up the cask as the fermentation subsides.
  5^        Home-7nade leverages.
  Add the thinly pared rinds of 3 Seville oranges,
  and the strained juice of two lemons and two
  oranges. When the fermentation has quite
  ceased, add a quart of good brandy, bung the
  cask tightly, and let it stand for two months ;
  then rack it off, filter the lees, and fill the cask
 again, adding an ounce of dissolved isinglass
 and 3 oz. sugar candy. Bung tightly, and
 leave for six months; then bottle, seal the corks,
 and keep for six months longer before drinking.
 Pear Brandy.
    Peel, core, and slice 20 large ripe juicy pears,
 and put them into a jar vfith 4 cloves, the
 thinly pared rind of a lemon, an inch of stick
 cinnamon, 2 quarts of good brandy, and half
 a pound pure cane sugar.      Infuse for 2 months,
 then filter and bottle.
 Pear Ratafia.
   Put 1 pint of fresh pear juice, 1 oz. sweet
 almonds, the thinly pared rind of half a lemon,
 2 cloves, a small piece of cinnamon, 2 pints of
 brandy and 6 oz. crushed sugar candy into a
jar, cover closely, infuse for a month, then filter
 and bottle.

 Pear Syrup.
   Peel, core, and slice 6 lb. of ripe juicy pears,
and put them into a jar with one and a half
pints of cold water and the thinly pared rinds
of 2 lemons. Place the jar in a pan of boiling
water, and cook for an hour, then strain through
a jelly bag, measure the juice, allow 12 oz. pure
cane sugar to every pint. Boil together for 15
minutes,skimming thoroughly,and when cold add
a few drops of essence of jargonelle, and a wine-
glassful of good brandy to every pint of syrup.
Pour into bottles, cork them tightly and seal
with bottling wax.
Pear Vinegar.
  Peel, core, and slice 2 gallons of ripe juicy
pears (measured after slicing) put them into
an unglazed earthenware bowl, pour over them
2 quarts of white wine vinegar and let them
stand for a week, stirring daily and keeping the
jar well covered. Strain through a jelly bag,
measure the juice, and to every pint add 12 oz.
of pure cane sugar and boil together till clear
             Hotne-made Beverages.              57
 and no more scum rises. When cold, pour into
 bottles, cork them tightly and seal with bottling
 wax.


 Persian Sherbet.
   Mash J lb. of ripe strawberries, and put them
 into a bowl with the juice of half a lemon, a
 teaspoonful of orange-flower water, and a pint
 of cold water. Rub 6 oz. loaf sugar on to the
 rind of a lemon, pound it, and put it into the
 bowl. Let it all stand on ice for 4 hours,
 stirring occasionally, then strain and serve.
 Pileorade.
  Rub 4 oz. loaf sugar on the rind of 2 lemons
and 2 oranges till all the zest is extracted,
then put it into a jug with the strained juice,
4 oz. thinly sliced pineapple and 3 pints of boil
ing water. Cover the jug, and let it stand until
cold, stirring occasionally, then strain, and let
it stand on ice for an hour before serving.
Pineapple Brandy.
  Peel and slice the pineapple, remove the eyes,
weigh it, and to every pound of fruit allow 8 oz.
crushed sugar candy. Three - parts fill some
wide-mouthed fruit bottles with alternate layers
of pineapple and sugar, fill up with brandy, cork
and seal the bottles, and infuse for 2 months,
then strain and rebottle.
Pineapple Cardinal.
   Peel a pineapple, remove the eyes, and slice
it thinly. Put the fruit into a bowl and sprinkle
1 oz. castor sugar over it. Put the pineapple
rind and eyes into a pan with 8 oz. sugar and a
pint of water. Boil gently for ten minutes,
removing the scum as it rises, then strain over
the fruit, cover the bowl and leave for 6 hours on
ice. Before serving, strain and add one and a
half pints of champagne or white wine.
Pineapple Julep.
   Peel a pineapple, remove the eyes, and sUce
it thinly. Put the fruit into a bowl with 2 oz.
castor sugar, the strained juice of 2 oranges,
a gill of raspberry vinegar or fresh juice, and the
same quantity of rum and maraschino. Let it
stand on ice for an hour, and just before serving
add a bottle of iced moselle.
jS           Home-made Beverages.
Pineapple Liqueur.
  Peel and slice some ripe pineapples, and put
them into a deep dish, with a sprinkling of
castor sugar in the proportion of 1 oz. to every
pound of fruit. Let it stand for 24 hours, then
strain the juice and to every pint allow a quart
of pure rectified spirits of wine, 6 oz. crushed
sugar candy, 4 cloves and a small piece of
cinnamon. Infuse with the slices of pineapple
in a tightly covered jar for a month, then filter
into bottles, cork them tightly, and seal with
bottling wax.

Pineapple Sherbet.
     Pare half a large or one small pineapple, slice
it very thinly, and put into a bowl. Add the
strained juice of 2 lemons, a quart of cold water,
and sugar to taste, cover over, and let it stand
on ice for three hours, then strain and serve.
Pineapple Shrub.
  Put 6 lb. of peeled and sliced pineapple into
a jar with a pint of water, and cook it in a pan
of boiling water for 3 hours, then strain through
a jelly bag, and to every pint allow 6 oz. of pure
cane sugar and one and a half pints of good
Old Jamaicarum. Stir until the sugar is dissolved,
then filter into bottles,and cork and seal them
securely.
Pineapple Syrup.
     Put 8 lb. of peeled and sliced pineapple into
a jar with two pints of water, place it in a pan of
boiling water, and cook for about 3 hours or
imtil the fruit is quite soft and tender. Strain
through a jelly bag, allow a pound of pure cane
sugar to every pint of juice, and boil together
for 10 minutes, skimming frequently. When
cold add a wineglassful of rum to every pint of
the syrup, and store in airtight bottles.
Pineapple Vinegar.
  Put 4 lb. of peeled and sliced pineapple into
a jar, add 3 pints of white wine vinegar, cover
the jar, and infuse for a week, then strain, allow
a pound of pure cane sugar to every pint of
vinegar, and boil together for 15 minutes.
 When cold, store in airtight bottles.
            Hotne-vtade Beverages.            59
Pineapple Water.
  Rub 1 lb. of loaf sugar on the rind of a lemon,
dissolve it in a pint of boiling water, add the
strained juice and pour on to a large pineapple,
previously pared, sliced, and pounded to a pulp.
Leave in a cold place for three hours, then strain
through fine muslin, add^a|Vquart of cold water
or the same^quantity of soda water, and serve.
Plum Cordial.
  Prick some sound ripe plums, and half fill
some wide-mouthed glass bottles with them,
allowing 6 oz. of crushed sugar candy, half an
inch of bruised cinnamon and 4 cloves to every
pound of fruit. Fill up the bottles with good
unsweetened gin, cork tightly and leave for 3
months, shaking occasionally, then strain and
rebottle.

Plum Liqueur.
  Peel and halve six large Golden Drop plums,
and put them into a jar with their kernels, a
quart of good brandy and 8 oz. of crushed sugar
candy. Infuse foFa month, then filter and bottle.
Plum Noyeau.
 Infuse 4 oz. of blanched and pounded plum
kernels, a quart of good brandy, 12 oz. of sugar
candy dissolved in half a pint of cold water
together for a fortnight, then filter and bottle.
Plum Ratafia.
  See recipe for Apricot Ratafia.
Plum Shrub.
  Prick some sound ripe plums and put them
into some wide-mouthed glass bottles with 6 oz.
of cane sugar, 4 plum kernels, and the thinly
pared rind of half a small lemon to every pound
of fruit. Fill up with good old Jamaica rum
and infuse for 3 months, keeping the bottles
tightly corked, and shaking them occasionally,
then strain and rebottle.
Plum Syrup.
  See recipe for Apricot Syrup.
Plum Vinegar.
  See recipe for Apricot Vinegar.
Plum Water.
   See recipe for Cherry Water.
6o          Home-made Beverages.

Plum Whisky.
  Halve some sound ripe plums, and put them
into a covered jar with their bruised kernels.
Cook in a pan of boiling water till the jniceflows
freely, then strain through a jelly bag and to
every pint allow a pint and a half of good old
whisky and 8 oz. of cane sugar.      Infuse for a
fortnight in a tightly closed jar, then filter till
clear, pour into bottles, and cork and seal them
securely.
Plum Wine.                                 ^
  See recipe for Peach Wine, and use Golden
Drop plums.
Pomegranate Ratafia.
  Press the pulp of some ripe pomegranates
through a fine hair sieve, measure it, and to every
pint allow a pint and a half of good brandy,
6 oz. pure cane sugar, half an inch of bruised
cinnamon and 3 cloves. Infuse for 6 weeks,
keeping the jar tightly closed and shaking it
occasionally, then filter till clear, and store in
tightly corked and sealed bottles.
Pomegranate Shrub.
 Press the pulp ofsomeripe pomegranatesthrough
a hair sieve and measure it. To every pint allow
the thinly pared rind of a lemon, a quart of
good old Jamaica rum and 8 oz. of crushed
sugar candy. Infuse for a month in a closed
jar, then filter and bottle.
Pomegranate . Syrup.
  Remove the rind and ruby coloured pips from
some sound ripe pomegranates, and put the
fruit into a covered "jar. Cook in a pan of
boiling water tiU the juice flows freely, then
strain through a jelly bag, and to every pint
add a pound of cane sugar. Boil together for
10 minutes, skimming when necessary,and when
cold, store in airtight bottles.
Pomegranate Vinegar.
  Remove the rind and deep coloured pips from
some ripe pomegranates, then weigh the pulp
and to every pound add a pint of white wine
vinegar. Pour into an unglazed earthenware
bowl, cover lightly to keep the dust out, and
leave for a week, stirring daily, then strain
                      Punch.                      61

through a jelly bag. Measure the liquid and
to every pint add a pound of cane sugar, and
boil together till the liquid is clear and no more
scum rises, then bottle when cold.
Pomegranate Water.
  Remove the ruby pips from six ripe pome
granates. Mash the fruit, and add to it one and
a half pints of water, 12 02. of sugar and the
strained juice of two lemons. Let it stand for
half an hour, then strain through filtering paper,
add one or two drops of cochineal, and serve.
Pope's Posset.
  Blanch and pound 4 oz. of sweet almonds and
3 bitter ones, adding a few drops of water to
prevent them 'oiling, then put them into a pan
with half a pint of cold water,and bring gradually
to boiling point; then strain, add half a bottle of
white wine, bring nearly to boiling point, and
serve at once, sweetened to taste.


                     PUNCH.
Ale Punch.
  Rub 1 02. lump sugar on the rind of a lemon,
and put it into a pan with the strained juice,
add a pinch of grated nutmeg, and powdered
cinnamon, 3 cloves, a pint of water, 2 pints of
old ale, and a gill each of gin, rum and whisky.
Stir over the fire till hot, strain into a punch
bowl,add three or four slices of lemon, and serve.
American Tea Punch.
   Rub 4 02. of loaf sugar on the rind of a lemon,
and place it in a bowl with the strained juice,
a quart of tea, and 2 gills each of rum and brandy.
Stir until the sugar is dissolved, then place on
ice for three or four hours, and serve in wine
glasses.
Apple Punch.
  Slice 2 large juicy apples and 1 lemon, and put
them into a bowl.      Add a bottle of claret and
sugar to taste, let it stand for 2 hours, then strain
into claret glasses and serve.
Champagne Punch.
 Rub 4 02. loaf sugar on to the rind of 2 lemons,
pound it and place it in a bowl. Add the strained
juice of the lemons, a thinly sliced orange,
4 sUces of pineapple, half a pint of strawberry
62           Home-made Beverages.

S3nnip and t\vo bottles of champagne. Serve
in champagne glasses with two ripe strawberries
floating in each.
 Devonshire Punch.
   Put a bottle each of whisky and rum, half
a bottle of brandy, and one and a half gills of
port into a pan, add one and a half gills of
strained lemon juice, and sugar and boiling water
to taste, stir over the fire till hot, then serve.
East Indian Punch.
   Rub 2 oz. sugar on to the rinds of 4 lemons,
pound it and place it in a punch bowl with a
quart of port, a pint of brandy, a pint of lime
juice, a gill of arrack, 4 sprigs of sjringa, and
sugar to taste. Let it stand in ice for an hour,
then add 3 or 4 bottles of iced soda water
(according to the strength required) and serve.
Elderberry Punch.
  Put a thinly sliced lemon into a punch bowl,
add a bottle of elderberry wine, one and a half
pints of boiling water and sugar to taste, and
grate a little nutmeg over the top.
English Punch.
  Rub 5 oz. loaf sugar on to the rind of 3 lemons,
place it in a saucepan, add 4 cloves, half inch
of cinnamon, a good pinch of grated nutmeg,
a pint of brandy, a pint of rum,the strained juice
of the lemons, and a quart of boiling water;
heat gradually but do not let it boil, then pour
into a punch bowl and serve at once.
Punch i la Franqaise.
  Rub 12 oir. loaf- sugar on to the rind of 2
lemons and 2 oranges, and put it into a pan
with the strained juice, a quart of freshly made
tea, a bottle of rum, and a bottle of brandy.
Let it become hot, then add the strained juice
of six oranges, and a little more sugar if neces
sary and serve.
Gin Punch.
  Rub 6 oz. sugar on to the rind of 4 lemons, and
put it into a punch bowl with the strained juice,
a pint of gin, and a gill of maraschino. Let it
stand in ice for an hour, then add 3 bottles
of iced soda water and serve.
                       Punch.                    63

Granito Punch.
  Put a gill each of brandy, rum, freshly made
tea, maraschino, and pineapple syrup into a
punch bowl, add the strained juice of three
lemons and three oranges, a bottle of champagne
and sugar to taste, freeze well and serve in
glasses.
Hot Punch.
  Rub 6 oz. sugar on to the rind of three largo
lemons, pound it, and place it in a punch bowl
with the strained juice, a pint of old rum, a gill
of brandy, a table-spoonful of noyeau, and a
pint of boiling water. Stir well, add a little
grated nutmeg if liked, and serve at once.
Hot Weather Punch.
  Put8large sprigs of young mint into a tumbler,
add a slice of pineapple, or a strip of orange rind,
half fill the tumbler with equal parts of brandy
and peach brandy, or sherry and gin, fill up
with finely shaved ice, and serve.
Iced Punch.
  Rub 8 oz. sugar on to the rind of two large
oranges and three lemons, pound the sugar,
add the pulp of the fruit carefully freed from
all the rind, pith, and pips, beat well together,
add a quart of boiling water and let it stand
until cold, stirring frequently. Strain, add
a pint of brandy and the same quantity of rum,
ice well, and serve.
Imperial Punch.
  Slice a pineapple thinly and lay it in a punch
bowl. Put a vanilla pod, an inch of cinnamon,
and the thinly pared rind of 3 lemons into a
jug, add half a lb. of sugar and a quart of boiling
water, and let it stand until cold.   Remove the
rind, pith, and pips from four large oranges,
slice them thinly, and put them into the bowl
with the strained juice of 3 lemons, a bottle
each of champagne, hock, and rum, the strained
liquid from the jug, and a pint of seltzer.
Stir well, and serve in champagne glasses.
Punch in Haste.
  Mix a large table-spoonful of lemon syrup with
a pint of water,add a wineglassful each of brandy
and rum, and serve.
64           Home-made Beverages.
Milk Punch. (No. 1.^
  Put the thinly pared rinds of a Seville orange
and 2 lemons into a jar, add a pint of rum, cover
the jar and let it stand for twelve hours, then
strain, add half a pint of strained lemon juice,
half a pound of pure cane sugar (loaf) dissolved
in a pint of cold water, the stiffly whisked white
of an egg, half a pint of strong green tea, J gill
of maraschino, one and a half pints of rum and
half a pint of madeira, and grated nutmeg to
taste. . Mix well, then stir in half a pint of
boiling milk. Let it stand for about an hour,
then strain through a jelly bag until quite clear
and either use at once, or store in airtight bottles-.
Milk Punch, (No. 2.)
  Put the thinly pared rind and strained juice
of 6 lemons, and two Seville oranges, and a thick
slice of pineapple into a jar, add half a small
nutmeg grated,one and a half pounds of cane loaf
sugar, and a bottle each of rum and brandy.
Cover the jar and let the contents infuse for
two days, then strain, add 3 pints of boding
water, and a pint of boiling milk. Let it stand
for 2 hours, then strain through a jelly bag till
clear, pour into bottles and cork and seal
securely.
Milk Punch. (No. 3.)
  Simmer the thinly pared rind of a lemon and
6 sweet and 2 bitter almonds in a quart of milk,
add 2 oz. sugar, strain, stir in the stiffly whisked
white of an egg, a gill each of cream, brandy,
and rum, and serve hot.
Orange Punfch.
  Rub half a pound of sugar on the rind of two
lemons, then dissolve them in a pint of boiling
water. Add the strained juice of the lemons, a
gill of curafao, half a pint of orange wine, and
the same quantity of brandy, rum, and calf s
foot jelly. Serve hot or cold.
Oxford Punch.
  Put the thinly pared rind and strained juice
of a Seville orange and four lemons into a large
jug, add 4 ozs. sugar, half a pint of calf s foot
jelly, and a quart of boiling water. Place the
jug by the side of the fire for half an hour, then
                     Punch.                     65

strain into a punch, bowl and when cold add a
pint of orange shrub, half a pint of rum, the
same quantity of brandy, a gill of white wine,
and orange-flower water to taste.
Pineapple Punch.
   Rub 12 oz. lump sugar on the rind of 4 large
lemons, put it into a bowl with the strained
juice,add half a pound of ripe pineapple freed from
rind and specks, and cut into thin slices. Boil
an inch of stick cinramon and half a saltspoon-
ful of grated nutmeg in two and a half pints of
water for ten minutes, pour into the bowl and
leave for an hour, then add a pint of rum, half
a pint of brandy, and half a pint of madeira,
cover the bowl and let it stand for 6 hours.
Strain through a jelly bag till clear, and serve
hot or cold, or if liked it may be bottled.
Pony Punch.
  Rub 4 lumps of sugar on the rind of a large
lemon, and dissolve them in one and a half gills of
strong green tea, add the strained juice of three
lemons, 8 oz. sugar dissolved in a gUl of water,
a bottle of chablis, a gill each of rum and brandy,
a wineglassful of arrack or sherry, and grated
nutmeg and powdered cinnamon to taste.
Mix well, strain, heat the punch over the fire
(being careful that it does not boil) and serve
at once.

Punch ii la R6gence.
  Boil 1 pint of water, one and a half pounds of
sugar,the thinly pared rinds of two Seville oranges
and two lemons,a vanilla bean,5 cloves,and about
one and a half inches of cinnamon together
for 15 minutes, add the juice of 12 lemons, pour
into a bowl, and leave until cold, then add a
pint each of rum and brandy, strain, and serve
hot or cold.

Punch k la Romaine.
  Take 3 gills of lemon water ice, add the
strained juice of 2 oranges, a wineglassful each
of brandy and rum, half a bottle of champagne,
a teacupful of tea and 4 oz. castor sugar mixed
with the stiffly whipped white of an egg. Stir
quickly until the mixture liquefies to the con
sistency of thick cream, and serve in cham
pagne glasses.
                                               E
66           Home-made Beverages.
Royzd Punch.
   Rub 4 oz. loaf sugar on to the rinds of 3lemons,
pound it and place it in a bowl with the strained
juice. Heat a pint of white wine, half a pint of
calf's foot jelly, and the same quantity of arrack,
rum, brandy, and curafao together, pour into
the bowl, stir until the sugar is dissolved,
and serve hot. If liked a little powdered
cinnamon and grated nutmeg may be added.
Rum Punch.
     Boil a quart of water, 4 lb. sugar, 10 cori
ander seeds, 2 inches of cinnamon, 5 cloves,
the thinly pared rind of 3 lemons together for
10 minutes, then pour it over 1 lb. of sliced
pineapple. Add half a pint of green tea, a gill
of arrack, a pint of rum, the same quantity
of brandy, and the strained juice of 5 lemons.
Cover closely, and infuse for two days, then add
a quart of boiling new milk, let it stand for two
hours, then strain through a jelly bag until
clear, pour into bottles, and cork and seal them
securely. It should be iced before serving.
Sportsman.'s Punch.
  Rub 4 oz. sugar on to the rind of a lemon,
pound it and place it in a hot jug with the
strained juice. Add a pint of boiling water,
half a pint of boiling ale, and the same quantity
of whisky and brandy, and serve at once.
Tea Punch.
  Put a pint of boiling tea into a hot bowl, add
half a gill of lemon syrup, and a table-spoonful
each of rum punch and cherjy brandy,and serve
at once.

University Punch.
  Put one and a half pints of boiling water into
a hot bowl, add 3table-spoonfuls of lemon syrup,
and the same quantity of orange shrub, cherry
brandy, and rum punch.
Whisky Punch.
     Put the thinly pared rind and strained juice
of 3 lemons into a bowl, add 7 oz. of loaf sugar,
one and a half pints of boiling water and IJ
pints of whisky. Stir until the sugar is dissolved,
then strain and serve at once.
                      Flinch.                   67
Wine Punch.
  Put the thinly pared rind of two lemons into
a pan, add the strained juice, 8 oz. sugar, 3 gills
of rum, a pint of tea, and two bottles of hock.
Stir over the fire till hot but not boiling, and
strain and serve.

Wedding Punch.
   Put a quart of champagne into a bowl, add
3 slices of cucumber and 3 sprigs of young mint,
a gill of Curasao, a bottle of claret, and castor
sugar to taste.     Let the bowl stand in ice for
2 hours, and just before serving add a bottle
of iced soda water.

Yorkshire Punch.
  Rub 10 oz. loaf sugar on to the rind of 3
lemons and 2 Seville oranges. Put them into
a bowl with the strained juice, half a pint of
hot calf's foot jelly, and a quart of boiling water.
Infuse by the side of the fire for 30 minutes,
then strain, add a pint of lemon shrub, and one
iind a half gills each of brandy and rum, and
serve hot.


Purl.
  Heat a pint of ale with sugar to taste,then add
a wineglassful of rum, brandy, or gin, or 2
wineglassfuls of bitters, and serve.
Quince Brandy.
  Put a quart of fresh quince juice, a quart of
good brandy, 12 oz. crushed sugar candy, a
small piece of cinnamon, and 4 cloves into a
jar. Cover closely, and infuse for two months,
shaking the jar frequently, then filter and bottle.
Quince Liqueur.
  Core and grate 12 lb. of ripe quinces, strew
12 oz. castor sugar over and leave for 24 hours,
then strain the juice through a jelly bag until
quite clear. Measure it, and to every pint of
juice allow 1 inch of stick cinnamon, 6 oz. loaf
sugar, and a pint of whisky. Put into a jar,
cover closely, and infuse for 3 weeks, then filter
 and store in airtight bottles.
 Quince Ratalia.
   Core and grate 2 lb. of ripe quinces, and place
in a jar with a gallon of good brandy, 2 lb. of
68          Home-made Beverages.
crushed sugar candy, 2 inches of stick cinnamon,
2 oz. angelica. Infuse for a month, then filter
into bottles and cork and seal them securely.
Quince Syrup.
  Grate some ripe quinces, put the pulp into
a jar, and cook in a pan of boiling water until
the juice flows freely. Strain through a jelly
bag, allow a pound of cane sugar to every pint
of juice, then boil together for 10 minutes,
skimming frequently. When cold, pour into
bottles, cork them tightly and seal with bottling


Quince Wine.
  Mix 1 gallongof fresh quince juice^and 4 lb.
of pure cane sugar together, pour into a tub,
cover with a blanket, and leave until it has
finished fermenting, then draw off the liquid,
add a pound of crushed cane sugar and 2
quarts of good brandy, pour into bottles, and
cork and seal securely.

Raisin Cordial.
 Stone and chop one and a half pounds of muscatel
raisins and put them into a jar with the thinly
pared rind of three lemons, an ounce of bruised
ginger, 3 pints of old whisky and 12 oz. crushed
sugar candy. Close the jar tightly and infuse
for 6 weeks, shaking it occasionally, then strain
through filtering paper into bottles, and cork and
seal them securely.
Raisin and Elderberry Wine.
  Crush a gallon of ripe sound elderberries and
put them into a tub with two and.a half pounds
of cane sugar, stir well and leave for 24 hours.
Stone and chop 18 lb. of Malaga raisins and put
them into a tub with four and a half gallons of
boiling water, mix well, cover over, and leave
for 24 hours. Boil the elderberries and sugar
for 30 minutes, removing the scum as it rises,
then strain into the tub containing the raisins,
stir frequently for half an hour, then leave for
3 days, covering the tub with a blanket or
folded cloth. Strain the liquor into a cask
(reservingabout half a gallon to fill up with),add
the thinly pared rind of an orange and three
lemons, and when it has quite ceased hissing.
            Home-made Beverages.                 69
pour in a pint of brandy, bung tightly and leave
for two months,then rack it ofi, filter the lees and
fill up the cask again.     Add J oz. of isinglass
dissolved in a little of the wino, and 3 oz. of
sugar candy, close the cask securely, bottle off
in 10 months' time, and keep for 6 months
longer before using.
Raisin Liqueur.
   Rub 8 oz. cane sugar on the rind of 2 oranges
and put it into a jar with the strained juice,
half a gallon of brandy, 2 lb. of stoned and
chopped Muscatel raisins, half a grated nutmeg
and 8 cloves. Infuse for a month, then filter
and bottle.

Raisin Wine. (No. 1.)
   Stalk 32 lb. of Malaga raisins, and put them
into a tub with 4 gallons of water, cover over and
stir daily for 4 weeks. Strain into a cask
(reserving about half a gallon to fill up with)
and when the fermentation has quite ended,
bung tightly and leave for 12 months. Rack
it ofi into a clean cask, add the filtered lees,
close tightly, and leave for 2 years before bottling.
 Raisin Wine. (No. 2.)
   Put 30 lb. of stalked and halved Malaga
 raisins into a cask with 16 gallons of good cider.
 Bung lightly for 6 or 7 days, then close the cask
 securely and leave for 6 months. Rack the
 wine ofi into a clean cask, add the filtered lees,
6 oz. of(crushed (sugar candy, 2 quarts of good
brandy'''and the thinly pared rind of 6 lemons.
Bung the cask tightly, bottle ofi in two years'
time, and leave for a year longer before using.
 Raspberry Brandy.
   Put 2 lb. of sound ripe raspberries into a jar
 with 2 quarts of good brandy"and'8 oz. crushed
 sugar candy. Infuse for a month, then filter
 and bottle.

 Raspberry Cordial.
   See recipe for Blackberry Cordial.
 Raspberry Gin.
   Put a quart of sound ripe raspberries, a quart
 of good unsweetened gin, and 10 oz. of cant
 sugar into a jar, cover closely and infuse for a
 month, then filter and bottle.
  70          Home-made Beverages.
  Raspberry Liqueur.
     Put some ripe white raspberries into a jar,
  and cook in a pan of boiling water till tlie juice
  flows freely, then strain through a jelly bag
  and to every pint 'allow 12 oz. of cane sugar.
  Boil together for 20 minutes, removing the scum
  as it rises, and when cold measure it and mix
 with it an equal quantity of pure white spirit.
 Filter into bottles, cork and seal them securely,
 and leave for 12 months before using.
 Raspberry Ratafia.
   See recipe for Gooseberry Ratafia.
 Raspberry Shrub.
  See recipe for Strawberry Shrub.
 Raspberry Syrup.
   See recipe for Cranberry Syrup.
 Raspberry Vinegar.
   See recipe for Cranberry Vinegar.
 Raspberry Water.
   See recipe for Strawberry Water.
 Raspberry Whisky.
   See recipe for Mulberry Whisky.
 Raspberry Wine.
   Bruise 5 gallons of ripe sound raspberries and
 put them into a tub with 5 gallons of boiling
 water, cover over and leave for 24 hours.   Strain
the liquid and fruit through a hair sieve and
leave till the following day, then strain into
another tub without disturbing the sediment,
add 12 lb. of crushed cane sugar and a gill of
yeast, and when the sugar is dissolved pour the
whole into a cask, reserving about half a gallon
to fill up with. 'When the fermentation has
quite ended, bung the cask tightly and let it
stand for a month, then rack the wine ofi into
a clean cask, add 1 oz. of isinglass dissolved in
a little of the wine and a quart of brandy, bung
tightly, and leave for a year before bottling.
Ratalia. (No. 1.)
  Pound 4 oz. of Morella cherry kernels, and
1 oz. of apricot kernels, and put them into a jar
with a quart of brandy and 8 oz. of sugar candy
dissolved in a gill of water. Cover the jar
tightly and infuse for 6 weeks, shaking daily,
then filter and bottle.
            Home-made Beverages.                7'

Ratafia. (No. 2.)
  Blanch and pound half a pound of bitter
almonds, and put them into a jar with 2 quarts of
good spirit, a grain of ambergris, half a grated
nutmeg, and 12 oz. of crushed sugar candy.
Close the jar tightly, and keep it in a warm place
for a fortnight, shaking it daily, then strain
through filtering paper, and store in airtight
bottles.

Ratafia. (No. 3.)
  Blanch and shred 4 oz. each of peach and
apricot kernels, and put them into a jar with
2 quarts of brandy, J lb. cane sugar, two inches
bruised cinnamon, and half an ounce of cloves.
Infuse for 2 months, then filter and bottle.
Ratafia de Jasmin.
   Infuse 2 oz. of white jessamine flowers with
one and a half pints of pure white spirit, and 6 oz.
of cane sugar in a tightly corked bottle for 4 days,
then filter and bottle.

Red Champagne.
   Boil one and a half lb. of beetroot for twenty
 minutes without breaking the skin, then slice
 them and put them into a tub with 5 gallons of
 crushed ripe green gooseberries,and five gallons of
 water previously boiled and allowed to get cold.
 Stir well, cover the tub and leave for 4 days,
 stirring several times daily, then strain, pour
 the liquor through a flannel bag into a cask, add
 15 lb. of crushed cane loaf sugar, 1 oz. of bruised
 ginger, the thinly pared rind of 2 lemons, and
 an ounce of isinglass dissolved in some of the
 liquid. Leave till the fermentation is over,then
 add a pint of brandy, bung the cask securely,
 and bottle off in twelve months' time. Seal and
 wire the corks of the bottles and keep the wine
 for 6 months longer before using.
 Red Cordial.
   Put a quart of pure rectified spirits into a jar
 with 2 thick slices of boiled beetroot, add one
 and a half pints of water, 8 oz. crushed sugar
 candy, half oz. of thinly pared lemon rind,
  J oz. each of cloves, cinnamon, grated nutmeg,
  and Jamaica pepper, and f oz. of bruised
  caraway and coriander seed mixed. Cork the
   7^         Home-made Beverages.
  jarftightly, tie a piece of bladder over it, and
  leave it in a pot of hot water for 6 hours. Keep
  in a warm room for a month, shaking the jar
  daily, then filter, and store in airtight bottles.
  Red Ratafia.
    Put two pounds of Morella cherries into a bowl
  with half a pound each of strawberries and
  raspberries, bruise the fruit throughly, strew
  over it 4 oz. of cane castor sugar, and leave
  for 24 hours. Strain and measure the juice, and
  to every pint allow 4 oz. cane sugar, a quart of
 brandy, and a drachm of bruised cloves. In
 fuse for a month, then filter and bottle.
  Rhubarb Sherbet.
    Boil a pound of sliced rhubarb in a pint of
 water for 20 minutes, then strain, add lemon
 juice and sugar to taste and serve cold.
 Rhubarb Syrup.
   Sea recipe for Apricot Syrup.
 Rhubarb Vinegar.
   See recipe for Cranberry Vinegar.
 Rhubarb Wine.
   Put 20 pounds of sliced rhubarb into a tub
 with 5 gallons of cold water,cover over and leave
 for 2 days, then remove the scum and strain
the liquid, pressing the fruit well to extract
all the juice. Add 12 lb. of cane sugar, and
when dissolved, pour into a cask,reserving 2 or
3 quarts to fill up with. Cover the bung-hole
with a tile till the fermentation has quite ended,
then add 4 oz. of crushed sugar candy and 1
pint of brandy. Bung the cask securely and
leave it for 3 months, then rack oS the wine,
filter the lees, and fill up the cask again, adding
the thinly pared rind of 2 Seville oranges and
ioz. of isinglass and 3oz. of crushed sugar candy
dissolved in a pint of the wine. Bung tightly
and leave for a year before bottling. Seal and
wire the corks and keep the wine for 9 months
longer before drinking it.
Rice Caudle.
  Soak one and a half oz. of rice in half a pint of
water for an hour, then strain and put the rice
into a saucepan with the thinly pared rind of a
            Home-made Beverages.                73

small lemon and one and a half pints of milk.
Simmer until the rice is very soft,then rub it all
through a hair sieve, after removing the lemon
rind.   Heat the caudle, then add half oz. of
fresh butter, sugar to taste and a table-spoon
ful of brandy and serve hot.
Rose Brandy.
 Fill a wide-mouthed pint bottle with freshly
picked rose leaves, add 2 oz. crushed sugar candy
and fill up with brandy. Cork tightly and
infuse for a month, then filter and rebottle.
Rose Liqueur.
  Put 12 drops of oil of roses and two of oil of
nutmeg into a quart of pure rectified spirits of
wine. Boil half a pound of pure cane sugar and
a gill of water together till reduced to a thick
syrup, and when cold add it to the spirit, shake
well, and add sufficient cochineal to make it all
a fine colour.   Filter into bottles and cork and
seal them securely.
Rose Ratafia.
  Put half a pound of freshly picked rose leaves
into a bottle, pour over them one and a half
pints of warm water, and let them stand for
two days, then strain and squeeze the rose-
leaves, and to every pint of liquid add a pint of
good brandy, an inch • of bruised cinnamon, and
8 oz. of crushed sugar candy. Infuse for three
weeks in a tightly closed jar,shaking occasionally,
then filter and bottle.
Rosolio.
  Put 3 oz. of freshly picked orange-flower petals
into a jar with 2 quarts of good brandy, and a
pound of crushed sugar candy, a vanilla bean,
the thinly pared rind of two small lemons, 8
cloves, 3 blades of mace, two inches of bruised
cinnamon, and half an ounce each of white
jessamine and rose petals. Infuse for a fort
night, then filter and bottle.
Rowan Liqueur.
  Bruise three and a half lb. of ripe mountain
ash (rowan) berries, and put them into a jar
with 2 quarts of old whisky and 2 lb. of
crushed sugar candy. Close the jar tightly, and
infuse for 3 weeks, shaking occasionally, then
filter and bottle.
74                          Home-made Beverages.
Rowan. Wine.
  Put 4 gallons of ripe rowan berries (gathered
on a dry day) into a tub, bruise them and pour
over them sufficient boiling water to just cover
them. Put a blanket or folded cloth over the
tub and leave for three days, then skim off
the crust very carefully, and strain the liquid
into a bowl. To every gallon add a pound of
crushed cane sugar, stir until it is thoroughly
dissolved, then pour into a cask, reserving about
half a gallon to fill up with, and leave until the
fermentation is ended.                         Add an ounce of isin
glass dissolved in a pint of brandy, then bung
the cask tightly and let it stand for 6 months
before bottling.
Rum Posset.
    Mix a table-spoonful of fine oatmealsmoothly
with a little cold milk, then add a pint of boiling
milk,and stir over the fire till it has simmered
for ten minutes. Add sugar to taste and a wine-
glassful of rum, and serve at once.
Rum Shrub.
    Put the thinly pared rind of 6 lemons into a
jar with 2 quarts of good Jamaica rum and a pint
of strained lemon juice. Boil three pounds
of cane sugar and a pint of water together for
10 minutes, skim, and when cold pour into the
jar. Infuse for a month, keeping the jar tightly
covered, and shaking it frequently, then filter
and bottle.

Sack Posset. ■.
          i     i                 s    rr                 i       t t r,
p       ri t                     ,t                    pi t    ii     r    ,
         s    r,                    r t            t       t t st .     v r
t           ,                    t it st                 t si       t   ir
    r               rs, t             s rv .

S        k                   .
     A                  i s          s rr t             pi t    ii                i k,
    ri       t            ii          p i t, t            p r i t
             t it st   ti t      r                       s r        .       Str i ,
s        t      t t st      s rv                        t r     .
S                   i        .
         i              r                          .            ,                   s
             t r,                t          it s               st       t     r      r
            Home-made Beverages.                75
an hour, skimming when necessary, then pour
it into a tub containing 20 lb. of stoned and
chopped Malaga raisins, and one and a half pecks
of fresh green sage leaves roughly shredded.
Cover the tub, and leave for two days, stirring
occasionally, then strain through a sieve and
press the fruit and leaves well to extract all
the juice, and next day draw ofiE the clear liquid
into a cask, being careful not to disturb the
sediment. Filter the lees, and put them into
the cask with the thinly pared rind and strained
juice of 2 Seville oranges and 3 lemons. Leave
the cask open and keep it well filled up while
the wine is working, and when the fermentation
is quite ended add a pint of brandy and an
ounce of isinglass dissolved in a little of the
wine. Bung the cask tightly, and bottle ofi in
12 months' time.

Sangaree. (No 1.)
  Rub 5 oz. of loaf sugar on the rind of 3 lemons,
crush it, add a wineglassful of lemon juice, a
bottle of Madeira, half a pint of good old Jamaica
rum, and one and a half pints of water. Stir
until the sugar is dissolved, and leave on ice
till required.
Sangaree. (No. 2.)
  Put 3 pints of brandy into a jar with 3 gills of
cherry brandy and one and a half lb. of crushed
sugar candy. Add one and a half pints of
Madeira, half a gill of lemon juice, 6 oz. of ripe
sliced medlars, J oz. blanched and pounded
bitter almonds, 1 oz. blanched and pounded
pistachio nuts, 2 oz. sliced candied peel, J oz.
each of grated nutmeg, Jamaica pepper, pow
dered cinnamon, and pounded cloves, 1 oz. of
sliced preserved ginger, and half an ounce of
gum arable dissolved.    Cork and seal the jar
tightly, and place it in a pot of hot water on the
stove for 8 hours, then keep in a warm room
for 6 weeks longer.      Leave for 12 months,
then filter and bottle, and in 6 months' time it
will be ready for use.

Shandy Gaff.
  Take equal quantities of ginger beer and ale,
add a few pieces of ice and serve.
^6           Home-made Beverages.
Sherbet Powder,
  Rub 4 oz.loaf sugar on the rind of four lemons
until all the zest is extracted, then crush it to
a very line powder. Mix with it 2 oz. each of
bicarbonate of soda and tartaric acid.      Rub
through a fine sieve and store in dry, tightly
corked bottles. When required add a large
teaspoonful to a tumbler of water.
Sherry, English.
  Boil 3 lb. of good honey, seventeen pounds of
brown cane sugar, 5 gallons of water and the
beaten whites of 6 eggs together for one and a
half hours, removing the scum as it rises, then
pour it into a tub containing the thinly pared
rind and strained juice of 6 Seville oranges,5oz.
of gum arable and half a peck of the young
sweetbriar shoots and buds. Stir well and when
lukewarm add a gill of yeast, cover the tub and
leave for four or five days, then strain into a
cask, add half oz. blanched and pounded bitter
almonds, 4 oz. crushed sugar candy and a quart
of pure fresh grape juice. Keep the cask well
filled up, and leave the bung out till the fer
mentation is over, then remove the scum from
the top, add a pint and a half of good brandy,
bung the cask', tightly and leave for 2 years
before bottling. Keep the wine for 18 months
longer before using.
Shrub.                                      ..
     Put the thinly pared rind and strained ]uice
of 4 large lemons into a bottle with 2 quarts of
brandy, a quarter oz. of nutmeg, grated, and one
and a half lb. of crushed sugar candy.      Cork
the jar tightly and infuse for a week, then add
3 pints of sherry, filter and bottle.
Sleeping Cup.
  BoU 12 coriander seeds, the same quantity
of cloves, and an inch of bruised cinnamon in
J pint of water, for 10 minutes, then add half a
pint of rum and sugar to taste, strain and serve.
Sloe Gin.
  Crush 4 lb. of sloes, and put them into a jar
with 2 quarts of unsweetened;^gin," 2 lb. of
crushed sugar candy, and J oz. each of blanched
and pounded bitter and sweet almonds. Cork
           Home-made Beverages.               77
the jar tightly, and infuse for three months,
shaking occasionally, then strain through
filtering paper into bottles, cork them tightly
and seal with bottling wax.
Sloe Ratafia.
  Well crush 6 pounds of sloes, strew over them
a pound of castor sugar, mix well, and leave for
24 hours, then strain off all the juice and to
every pint allow a quart of good brandy, a pound
of cane sugar, an inch of bruised ciimamon, S
cloves, and the thinly pared rind of half a
small lemon. Infuse for a month in a tightly
closed jar, then filter and bottle.
Sloe Wine.
   Put 4 gallons of ripe sound sloes into a tub
with 4 gallons of boiling water, and leave for
five days, stirring frequently. Strain and
measure the liquid and to every gallon add 4 lb.
of pure cane sugar, stir untU dissolved, then
pour into a cask. Keep the latter well filled
up, and when the fermentation is over, add
a quart of brandy and half an ounce of dissolved
isinglass to every 3 gallons of wine. Bung
the cask tightly, and leave for 2 years before
 bottling.
Soda Water Powders.
  Put 30 grains of bicarbonate of soda into
each blue paper and twenty-five grains of tar-
taric acid into each white paper. When re
quired, put the contents of a white and blue
paper into two separate tumblers, half fill them
with water, mix together and drink at once.
Strawberry Acid.
  Stalk 6 pounds of ripe sound strawberries
and put them in an earthenware bowl with
two and a half oz. of tartaric acid dissolved in
a quart of cold water.   Leave for 24 hours, then
strain the liquid, and to every pint add one and
a half lb. of sifted cane sugar. Stir until
dissolved, then store in airtight bottles. When
required, dilute to taste with plain or aerated
water.

Strawberry Brandy,
  Three-parts fill some wide-mouthed quart
bottlos with ripe sound Alpine strawberries.
78          Home-made Beverages.
add a strip of lemon rind, 4 oz. crushed sugar
candy, and fill up with good brandy. Cork
tightly, and infuse for a month, then filter and
bottle.

Strawberry Cardinal.
  Put a pint of sound ripe stalked strawberries
into a bowl,add half a pound of castor sugar and
half a bottle of hock, and leave on ice for two
hours, then add the remainder of the hock,
and half a bottle of seltzer water, and serve.
Strawberry Cordial.
  See the recipe for Blackberry Cordial, omit the
ginger, and use gin instead of whisky.
Strawberry Liqueur.
  See recipe for Raspberry Liqueur.
Strawberry Ratafia.
  See recipe for Gooseberry Ratafia.
Strawberry Sack.
  Fill some wide-mouthed glass bottles with
sound ripe strawberries, and allow 4 oz. crushed
sugar candy to every pound of fruit. Fill up
with good sherry, cork the bottles tightly and
infuse for 3 months, shaking occasionally, then
filter and bottle.

Strawberry Sherbet.
  Mash a pound and a quarter of ripe red
strawberries, and put them into a bowl with
a pound of cane sugar, a table-spoonful each of
lemon juice and orange-flower water, and 3 pints
of cold water. Let it stand in a cold place or
on ice for five or six hours, then strain and serve.
Strawberry Shrub.
  Mash 4 lb. of ripe sound strawberries and
put them into a jar with 2 quarts of good old
Jamaica rum, the thinly pared rind and strained
juice of two lemons, and one and a half lb. of
cane sugar. Infuse for a month, keeping the
jar tightly closed, and shaking it occasionally,
then filter and bottle.

Strawberry Syrup.
  See recipe for Cranberry Syrup.
Strawberry Vinegar.
  See recipe for Cranberry Vinegar.
            Home-made Beverages.                79
Strawberry Water.
  Mash a pound of strawberries, and mix with
them 8 oz. castor sugar and half a pint of water.
Let them stand for 3 hours, then rub through
a sieve and filter till clear. Add the strained
juice of a lemon and a pint of cold water and
serve.


Strawberry Whisky.
  See recipe for Mttlheyry "Whisky.
Strawberry Wine.
  Bruise 6 gallons of ripe sound strawberries,
and put them into a tub with the same quantity
of water. Steep for 24 hours, then strain into
a cask, add 4 gallons of cider, 2 oz. of powdered
red tartar, the thinly pared rind of two lemons,
^d 16 lb. of cane sugar. When the fermentation
is over add a quart of good brandy, and an
ounce of dissolved isinglass, bung the cask
tightly and leave for a year before bottling.
Tamarind Water.
  Mix half a pint of water and a gill of tamarind
juice together, add sugar to taste and serve.
Tea.
  Heat the teapot, and allow from one to one
and a half teaspoonfuls of tea for every two
cups, according to the strength         required.
Pour on freshly boiled water, let the teapot
stand by the side of the fire for three or four
minutes, stirring the tea once or twice, then
strain into a heated teapot, and use.
Tea, Iced.
  Make a quart of rather strong tea in the usual
way, strain, sweeten to taste, and when cold
add half a pint of cream, embed the jug in ice
for four hours before using.
Tea, Russian.
  Make some tea in the usual way, strain, add
sugar and lemon juice to taste, and serve hot,
cold, or iced. In the latter case, a thin slice
of lemon and a small piece of ice should be
served in each cup.
Toddy.
  Put the thinly pared rind of 2 lemons into a
bowl with 4 oz. sugar, and a pint of boiling
8o           Home-made Beverages.
water. When cold, strain, add a sliced and
peeled peach, or 4 or 5 strawberries, a pint of
good old Jamaica rum, and a little shaved icc
and serve.

Treacle Posset.
  Boil half a pint of new milk, add two table-
spoonfuls of treacle, and boil till the curd
separates from the whey. Strain, and serve
hot. This is an old-fasliioned remedy for a cold.
Turnip Wine.
  Peel and slice the turnips, strew a little sugar
over them, and leave them until next day.
then press out the juice, put it into a clean
cask, and to every gallon add 3 lb. of loaf sugar,
and half a pint of brandy. Keep the cask filled
up, and when the fermentation has quite ceased,
bung tightly and leave for three months, then
bottle off, and in a year the wine will be ready
for use.

Van der Hum.
  Puttwo quarts of good brandy into a jar with 10
cloves, 3 inches of bruised cinnamon, a quarter
of a nutmeg grated, 3 oz. of thinly pared orange
rind and a pound of brown cane sugar. Close
the jar tightly, and infuse for 6 weeks, shaking
occasionally, then filter, and to every quart of
liquid add a gUl of good old Jamaica rum, and
store in airtight bottles.
Vanilla Ratafia.
     Put one and a half oz. each of blanched and
pounded sweet almonds into a jar with a quart
of good brhndy, 8 oz. sugar candy, and 2 vanilla
pods broken into short lengths. Close the jar
tightly and infuse for a fortnight, shaking
occasionally, then filter and bottle.
Vanilla Syrup.
  Break two vanilla pods into small pieces and
put them into a pan with a pound of cane sugar
and a pint of water. Bring very slowly to
boiling point, and simmer for twenty minutes,
removing the scum as it rises, then add a gill
of brandy, and store in an airtight bottle. When
required dilute to taste with plain or aerated
water.
              Home-made Beverages.                81
Vespetro.
   Put 2 quarts of good brandy into a jar with
half oz. each of angelica, aniseed, coriander,
caraway, and fennel seeds. Infuse for six
weeks, keeping the jar tightly covered and
shaking it occasionally, then strain through
filtering paper. Put one and a half lb. cane
sugar into a pan with a gill of water and boil
together for five minutes,skimming when neces
sary ; when cold add it to the liqueur, pour into
bottles, and cork and seal them securely.
Walnut Liqueur.
  Gather 60 green walnuts in June, cut them
into small pieces, and put them into a jar with
J oz. cloves, an inch of bruised cinnamon, 3
pints of unsweetened gin and 1 lb. crushed
sugar candy.    Infuse for a month, then filter
and bottle.

Wassail Bowl.
  Put 2 cloves, J oz. root ginger, half a small
grated nutmeg, a blade of mace, and 2 corian
der and cardamom seeds into a pan with one and
a half gills of water, and boil for 5 minutes, then
add 12 oz. of loaf sugar previously rubbed
on the rind of a large lemon, and two bottles of
sherry. Put the whites of 3 eggs and the yolks
of six into a bowl, and add gradually two and a
half gills of the warm liquid, boil the rest of the
liquid and pour into the bowl, stirring and
beating vigorously to froth the liquid. Add
6 cored and roasted apples, and serve very hot.
Whisky Cordial.
  Strip a pint of ripe sound white currants from
their stalks, bruise them and put them into a
jar with 3 pints of good old whisky, 1 lb. cane
sugar, the thinly pared rind of two lemons,
and an inch of bruised root ginger. Infuse for
a fortnight, then filter and bottle.
Whisky Shrub.
  Boil 2 lb. of brown cane sugar and half a
pint of water together for 10 minutes, skimming
when necessary. When cold pour into a jar, add
the strained juice of two pounds of lemons, and
J lb. of Seville oranges, the thinly pared rind of
4 lemons, a gill of porter and two quarts of
                                              F
82          Home-made Beverages.

whisky. Close the jar tightly and infuse for
a month, then filter and bottle.
White Wine Negus.
  Rub 8 oz. loaf sugar on the rind of two lemons
fill all the zest is extracted, and put it into a
jug with the strained juice,a pint of liquid calf s
foot jelly, an inch of bruised cinnamon, a blade
of mace,6 cloves, a pinch of allspice, and a quart
of boiling water. Let it stand for twenty
minutes, then add a bottle of white wine,
grated nutmeg to taste and,if liked, a little more
sugar, heat in a saucepan and serve at once.
White Wine Whey.
  Boil a pint of milk, add a gill of white wine,
boil till the curd separates, then strain, sweeten
to taste, and serve.




           AMERICAN          DRINKS.
American Lemonade.
  Put a table-spoonful of castor sugar and the
strained juice of a lemon into a large tumbler
with a wineglassful of water and half fill it with
shaved ice. Add a large table-spoonful of
strawberry syrup, and fill up with soda water.
Put a slice of lemon or orange on the top, and
serve with a straw.

American Tea Punch.
  Put 1 pint of hot tea into a bowl, add 2 oz.
castor sugar, the strained juice of a small lemon,
and a gill each of good brandy and Jamaica rum.
Place in an ice-cave until cold, then serve in wine
glasses.
Brain Duster.
   Put half a teaspoonful of castor sugar and half
a wineglassful each of absinthe and vermouth into
a glass, add some iced seltzer water, and serve.
Brandy Cocktail.
  Half fill a large tumbler with shaved ice, add
half a gill of brandy, half a gill of curafao and
ginger syrup mixed, and 2 teaspoonfuls of orange
bitters.
                American Dnnhs.                  83
 Brandy Mint Julep.
   Put two small lumps of sugar into a tumbler
 with a wineglassful of brandy, and when dis
 solved add 2 sprigs of fresh mint and a little
 shaved ice. Place a thin slice of pineapple and
 orange on the top, and serve.

 Brandy Punch.
  Put a gill of water into a large glass, add 2
 teaspoonfuls of castor sugar, a table-spoonful of
 raspberry syrup, the strained juice of half a
 lemon and orange, two thin slices of pineapple
 and a gill of brandy. Fill up the glass with
 shaved ice, and serve.

 Brandy Shake.
   Put equal parts of Maraschino and brandy
 into a liqueur glass, add a few drops of Angostura
 bitters, and serve.

 Brandy Skin.
   Half fill a large tumbler with shaved ice, add a
 wineglassful of brandy, the juice of a lemon, 2
teaspoonfuls of icing sugar, and half a table-
spoonful of strawberry syrup. Shake well, strain
and serve.

Brandy Smash.
  Half fill a glass with shaved ice, add a large
teaspoonful of castor sugar, three slices of pine-
apple, the same quantity of lemon, and a wine-
glassful of brandy. Shake well, and strain.
Ching-Ching,
  Put a gill of Jamaica rum into a large glass^
add a slice of orange, 2 drops of essence of
cloves, 1 drop of essence of peppermint, and fill
up with iced soda water or shaved ice.

Corpse Reviver.
  Fill a liqueur glass with equal portions of green
Chartreuse and Maraschino, and put a dash of
noyeau on the top, and serve at once.

Eye Opener.
  Put a tea-spoonful of castor sugar, a beaten egg
and a liqueur glassful each of brandy and rum
into a tumbler, fill up with iced soda water or
shaved ice, and serve.
84              American Drinks.
Floster (No. 1).
  Puta large tabla-spoonful each of kirsch,sherry
and either cherry syrup or cherry water ice into
a tumbler,and fill up with well iced seltzer water.
Floster(No.2).
  Put 2 slices of lemon, a sliced peach, half a
gill of noyeau, \ oz. castor sugar, and a gill of
sherry into a tumbler with a small lump of ice,
and fill up with iced soda water.

Gin Cocktail.
   Half fill a tumbler with shaved ice, add a strip
of lemon rind, a wineglassful of unsweetened gin,
a table-spoonful of orange bitters, and sugar to
taste. Shake well, strain and serve with the
lemon rind on the top.

Gin Mint Julep.
  Put a lump of sugar and a teaspoonful of water
into a glass, add a large sprig of mint, 2 slices of
pineapple, a wineglassful of gin and some shaved
ice, and serve.

Gin Rickey.
  Put a small piece of ice at the bottom of a small
glass,add a small table-spoonful of lemon juice,
a wineglassful of gin, and fill up with iced seltzer
water.


Ice Cream Soda.
  Put a large table-spoonful each of strawberry
and vanilla ice cream into a tumbler, add a very
little shaved ice, and fill up with iced soda water,
holding the bottle or syphon containing the
latter high above the glass.
Iced Egg Nogg.
  Beat the yolks of 2 eggs with a large teaspoonful
of castor sugar till light,then add a table-spoonful
of cold water, i gill of brandy, a gill of sherry
and half a pint of new milk. Fill up the tumbler
with shaved ice, and serve.

Invigorator.
     Put a well beaten fresh egg and a gill of cold
strong cofiee into a large glass, add 2table-spoon
fuls of port, 1 of brandy and 1 of shaved ice ;
shake well, strain and serve.
               American Drinks.                85

John Collins.
   Half fill a large tumbler with shaved ice, add
a table-spoonful of strained lemon juice, a tea-
spoonful of castor sugar, a sUco of lemon and
pineapple, and a glass of gin. Fill up with iced
soda water and serve.

Lemon Squash.
  Half fill a glass with shaved ice, add the
strained juice of a large lemon and castor sugar
to taste, fill up with iced soda water and serve.
Manhattan.
  Put half a wineglassful each of whisky and
vermouth into a glass, add a dash of cura9ao and
Angostura bitters, and sugar to taste. Fill up
with shaved ice, shake and serve with a thin slice
of lemon on the top.
Martini Cocktail.
  Half fill a tumbler with shaved ice, add half a
wineglassful each of Italian vermouth and un
sweetened gin, a dash of orange bitters and castor
sugar to taste. Serve with a strip of lemon rind
on the top.
Mint Julep.
  Put 6 sprigs of fresh mint into a tumbler, add
a liqueur glassful each of brandy and peach
brandy, and sugar to taste, and fill up with
chipped ice.
Nectar.
  Mix together a large teaspoonful of honey, a
few drops of lemon juice, a wineglassful of cognac
and half a pint of hot cider, and place the glass
in ice till required.
Pineapple Julep.
   Put a gill each of gin and raspberry syrup into
a jug, add the strained juice of a large orange,
f gill of Maraschino, f lb. crushed ice, a sliced
pineapple cut into small pieces, and lastly a bottle
of Sparkling Moselle, and serve in small glasses.
President.
   Put the beaten yolk of a fresh egg, 1 oz. castor
sugar, a dessert-spoonful each of orange syrup
and orange-flower water, and a teaspoonful of
lemon juice into a tumbler, and fill it up with
boiling water.
 86              American Drinks.

 Rum Riekey,
    Put a small lump of ice into a small glass, add
 a dessert-spoonful of lime juice and a wine glassful
 of rum, and fill up with, iced seltzer water.

 Sam Ward's Kiimmel.
    Fill a claret glass three parts full with shaved
 ice and a little lemon rind, and fill up with
 Kiimmel.

Saratoga.
  Half fill a large tumbler with shaved ice, add
a wineglassful of brandy, two teaspoonfuls of
Maraschino, one of Angostura bitters, two of
pineapple juice, and castor sugar to taste.
Shake well, strain into another tumbler, add
half a glass of champagne, and serve with one
or two ripe strawberries and a strip of lemon
rind on the top.
Sensation.
  Put the strained juice of an orange and half a
lemon, 2 slices of pineapple, a table-spoonful of
raspberry syrup or vinegar, a gill of brandy, and
sugar to taste into a large tumbler and fill up
with well iced soda water.

Sherry Cobbler.
  Half fill a tumbler with shaved ice, add two
teaspoonfuls of strained orange juice, one of sugar
and a gill of sherry, shake weU and serve with a
straw.

Silver Dream.
  Mix together a wineglassful of good unsweet
ened gin, a teaspoonful of castor sugar, the
beaten white of an egg, a dessert-spoonful of
strained lemon-juice, and a table-spoonful of
shaved ice. Fill up the tumbler with iced
seltzer water.


Silver Fizz.
  Well beat the white of an egg, add a wineglass
ful of gin, and the strained juice of half a lemon.
Pour on to half a tumblerful of shaved ice, shake
well, strain into a glass containing a teaspoonful
of castor sugar, and a good pinch of car
bonate of soda, and serve at once.
               American Drinks.                 87

 Sloe-gin Cocktail.
    Half fill a glass with shaved ice, add a wine-
 glassful of sloe gin, and a dash of orange bitters
 and serve.

Strawberry Fizz.
   Crush 4 large ripe strawberries, and put
 them into a glass with a few drops of lemon
juice, a teaspoonful of sugar, and a wineglassful
 of gin, then fill up with iced soda water.

 Sunrise.
   Half fill a tumbler with shaved ice, add a
 teaspoonful of Angostura bitters, a large table-
 spoonful of brandy, two of sherry, and sugar
 and vanilla essence to taste.    Shake well and
 serve with a strip of lemon rind on the top.

 Toddy.
   Soak the thinly pared rind of a large lemon
 in a gill of water for 6 hours, then strain, add
 a thin slice of pineapple, five ripe strawberries,
 2 oz. shaved ice, and 2 gills of Jamaica rum.

 Whisky Sour.
   Mix together equal quantities of good whisky
 and lemon juice, and ice well before serving.
 Whisky Cocktail.
   Put two large table-spoonfuls of whisky and
 a teaspoonful of Angostura bitters into a glass,
 add sugar to taste, and 2 drops of cinnamon
 essence, and 6 oz. shaved ice.

 Whisky Punch.
  Put 8 oz. shaved ice into a jug, add 4 wine-
 glassfuls of whisky, a large table-spoonful of
,castor sugar, and 2 table-spoonfuls of strained
 lemon juice. Shake well, strain into small
 glasses, and serve with thin slices of orange and
 pineapple on the top.

 Whisky Mint Julep.
   Put 6 sprigs of fresh mint, and 2 teaspoonfuls
 of sugar into a glass, add a wineglassful of
 whisky and fill up with shaved ice.
               Selected List of
      COOKERY                                BOOKS.
          By C. Herman Senn, G.C.A.
The "New Century" Cookery Book.-Enlarged Edition.
  Containing over 5,000 recipes of Dishes and Methods of Cooking,
  with over 400 illustrations. It forms one of the largest and most
  complete collections of cooking recipes for recherche dishes ever
  produced in this country. Every up-to-date Chef and Caterer .
  should possess a copy. Post free, 21/9. (Edition de Luxe,33/-) 21/-
Hccherch6 Entr^es.-This lately published book of over ^
  pages contains a collection of the newest Entries, presenting the
  latest ideas of the Entrie course dishes, being of the highest type
  of Continental and English cookery. Price 5/-illustrated. Cheap
  edition 3/6. By post 4d. extra                      ...

Hccherch^ Side Dishcs.-Fifth Enlarged and Revised Edition
  now ready. A handy hook of recipes for dainty Hors-d'CEuvre,
  Savouries, Salads, and Sandwiches,containing about 600 reliable
  recipes. Post free, 3/9

Hechcrch^ Luncheon and Dinner Sweets. — The latest
 book on Sweet Entremets, hot and cold dishes for all occasions.
  Beautifully illustrated. Post free, 2/9                               2/6
A Book ol Salads: or. The Art of Salad Dressing.
 By Alfred Suzanne and C.H.S. This little book is unquestion
 ably the best in existence. It contains Recipes for Green Salads,
 Vegetable Salads, Fish Salads, Poultry and Game Salads,
  Meat Salads, and Fruit Salads. Salad Dressings and Sauces
 are also fully treated. Post free, 1/8                                 1/6
Emergency Dinners, or the Amateur Cook's Manu^
  Practically everyday routine of cooking is covered by the 3UU
 Recipes given. A special chapter of useful Invalid Cookery
 Recipes is given, also Specimen Menus. Post free, 2/3      2/—
Cookery for livalids and the Convalescent.-A collection
 of valuable recipes, useful in the preparation of tempting dishes
 and drinks for the sick and convalescent. Post free, I/B ... 1/6
Potato Cookery.-By A. Suzanne and C. Herman Senn 300
 ways of cooking and serving potatoes for table. Post free, 1/8 ... 1/6
Hors - d'ffiuvrc and Sandwiches.-Forming Part 3 of
 Recherchd Side Dishes, 102 pp. By C. Herman Senn.        ,,g ,
                                               Post free, 1/8 l/o

     Any of the above-mentioned Works may be obtained
                                from the

FOOD AND COOKERY PUBLISHING AGENCY.
                329, Vauxhall Bridge Road,
                                Victoria Station, London, S.W,
   Remittances must in every case accompany orders. Cheques and
Postal Orders should be crossed and made payable to the Manager.
  Illustrated Booklet of Standard Books for Cooks and
Caterers sent post free on application.
 :nr.




       /<



  ,v";,i ,




' "'■-1




   '
-'f.
.    ,




    •iiY—
                   :y:J[ ■-   '   :'■-. V'




                          r




     V- ■
             :i:




i;-- , ■    ■:
k'
