         ANGOSTURA
          BITTERS
                                              K
                        CHD


                 CENTENARY, 1924.             f
Ii               GIFT    BOOK
                        OF
                                                  1
i                COCKTAIL
I;                      AND


                 OTHER RECIPES
                                        ii)




                  Some uses for                   I
                   Angostura Bitters.


     "Iv^"
                    V
       -..   ^
                               r\
trti&'OlnSITE TONIC AFPETlS^
hCi'Pl-AiN.OIl MK™
      SPHJITS OB laMBAW'




                                    i
            ..f
                                                            ■if.



 14-

                                                                          \
tf     Y                             Wiih the
                                 Compliments of

                              ANGOSTURA
                               BITTERS
                              Dr.J G. B.Siegert & Sons)
                                  LIMITED
                              (Incorporated in Trinidad).




           6-8. George Street, Port of Spain,Trinidad,B.W.I.


           Sole Consignees:
                  HENDERSON & CO. {LONDON), Ltd.,
                         finsbury court,
                                 FINSBURY PAVEMENT,
                                           LONDON, E.C.2,
                                                                   ■ r'
             GQSTURi^  flag
                       flying




                                  t




A hundred years ago Angostura was first made.
To-day it stands unrivalled I

                                                "if
CENTENARY
               RECIPE BOOK.

                     I—0=



               FOREWORD,

This Uttle book is presented by the compilers
      with the hope that the many recipes of
      proved merit for the making of Cocktails
and other beverages—together with some valuable
hints on the advantageous employment of a com
modity which by reason of its well-proved beneficial
properties, has been held in high esteem for a
century—will be of some service and interest to
those who appreciate the refinements of flavour in
meat and drink. To-day it stands unrivalled
throughout the world.
    In these days, when nearly everyone exercises
discrimination in matters of food and drink, the
question "What is Angostura?" may frequently
be met with.
           WHAT ANGOSTURA IS.
     De. Hassall, ^I.D., the eminent Analyst,,
says:—

      I find that they [Dr. Siegert's Ango.=tura Bitters]
 "are a mixture of certain bitter aromatic and carminative
  substances, together with alcoliol added aa a preser-
  vative and solvent, and that they are altogether free from
  admixture with any dangerous or deleterious compounds,
  as strychnine, for example, so commonly present in
  what are termed 'Pick-me-ups.'"

           A   POPULAR           FALLACY.
     At the outset it will be well to refute the
popular fallacy that Angostura Bitters contain
Angostura Bark. No greater error ever existed.
Dr. Siegert's Angostura Bitters are guaranteed to
contain only the most health-giving ingredients,
and may therefore be taken in unlimited quantities.
     Dr. Siegert s are the only Genuine Angostura
Bitters. Hosts of imitations have sprung up. both
in the Tropics and in Europe, and care should be
taken to ensure that no substitute or imitation is
accepted in place of the real thing.
     The composition of Angostura is precisely the
same to-day as in 1824, when Dr. Siegert first
commenced the production.
                             4
     Look for the signature on the label of the
bottle, and thus guard against substitution.
    Having thus placed the reader in possession ot
the salient qualities of Angostura Bitters, it re
mains to indicate some of the uses to which they
may be put.
    The addition of a few dashes of Angostura will
improve and add tone to practically every vinous
and spirituous liquor.
    One has but to try it in Claret, for instance,
to be convinced that it makes indifferent liquor
tolerable and good liquor superlative.
    Lemonade, Ginger Beer, Ginger Ale, Soda
Water, etc., with a few dashes of Angostura added,
are delicious and popular refreshers.
    The Recipes which follow are but a few choice
examples of the many scores in which Angostura
is an essential standard ingredient.



                         =®=i
ANGOSTURA BITTERS IN THE MAKING AT PORT OF SPAIN, TRINIDAD.




               PART OF THE STORES AND COURT YARD.




                   ANGOSTURA BITTERS IN BULK.
               COCKTAILS
           AND HOW TO MAKE THEM.


The compounding of Cocktails is fascinating,
       yet withal simple. All that is realU' neces
sary is to mix thoroughhj the specified ingredients by
vigorous shaking or beating with a swizzle-stick or
fork. A well-fitting cover for the mixing glass is
desirable.
    Ice, when obtainable, should always be used
in preference to water, as it adds greatly to the
excellence of the Cocktail.
                  GIN COCKTAIL.
     Half wineglass crushed ice; half wineglass
gin ; half teaspoonful Dr. fSiegert's Angostura
Bitters; one lump of sugar; one piece of twisted
lemon peel ; beat well and pour into a cocktail glass.
             MANHATTAN COCKTAIL.
    One-third wineglass whisky; one-third wine
glass Veimouth ; three dashes Dr. Siegert's Angos
tura Bitters; one lump sugar, and serve with ice.
                MARTINI COCKTAIL.
     Two-thirds wineglass gin ; one-third wineglass
Vermouth ; three dashes Dr. Siegert's Angostura
Bitters.
                WEST INDIAN SWIZZLE.
     One teaspoonful fine sugar; one leaspoonful
 Dr. Siegert's Angostura Bitters; half wineglass
 brandy or Jamaica rum ; half wineglass crushed
 ice; beat until the ice is melted and then pour off
—into a cocktail glass.                       .'
                    WHISKY COCKTAIL.
     Plalf wineglass crushed ice; half wineglass
 whisky; half teaspoonful Dr. Siegert's Angostura
 Bitters; one lump of sugar;, piece of twisted lemon
 peel ; beat well and pour into a cocktail gla.ss.
        One of the most popular appetisers of to-day is known as a
                         "TRINITY."
     Recipe; Three daslies Angostura Bitters; one-
 third each Gin, French Vermouth and Italian Ver
mouth. A piece of twisted lemon peel is a great
improvement.
GIN AND ANGOSTURA                              A    fow    drops of
WHISKY AND ANGOSTURA                           -Angostura added to
SHERRY AND ANGOSTURA                           any of tliese sinrits
VERMOUTH & ANGOSTURA                           impart a deligiitful
                                               aroma and improve
brandy and ANGOSTURA                           tlie flavour.

                    CHAMPAGNE CUP
                      (use Glass Jug).
    Half-tea.spoonful sugar; one rind of lemon;
three slices orange; three slices lemon; one slice
cucumber peel; one teaspoonful Angostura Bitters;
one pony brandy; one pony maraschino; one pony
white cura^oa: one wineglass sherry; one quart
champagne ; one bottle soda ; several lumps of ice;
ornament with fresh mint.
              CHAMPAGNE PUNCH.
     Put in larg^ punch bowl two bottles cham
pagne 5 tu'o bottles soda water j one tablespoonful
Dr. Siegert's Angostura Bitters; eight pieces cut
loaf sugar: three oranges sliced; three lemons
sliced; one pineapple sliced and quartered. Stir
gently and place large square of ice in bowl; serve
in glass cups.
                 PORT WINE PUNCH
         (use large Glass half full of Ice).
     Four dashes lemon juice; one tablespoonful
sugar; two glasses port wine; a dash or two An
gostura Bitters. Stir well, fill up with ice, dress
with fruit and serve with straws.
                  WHISKY PUNCH
         (use large Glass half full of Ice).
     One teaspoonful sugar; four or five dashes
lemon juice; half pint whisky and rum mixed:
a few dashes Angostura Bitters. Shake well, strain
into punch glass, with slice of orange, three or four
dashes of cura^oa on top, with seltzer, and serve.
           CLARET AND ANGOSTURA.
     To add body to ordinary table claret and give
 it a rich Btirgundv flavour, add one dessertspoonful
 of Dr. Siegert's Angostura Bitters to every quart of
 claret. * By using this proportion of bitters in claret
                            £)
 cup, a much smaller quantity of claret is required,
 and the flavour of the cup is greatly improved.
                    CLARET CUP
                   (use Glass Jug).
     Half teaspoonful sugar; one rind of lemon;
 three slices orange; three slices lemon; one slice
 cucumber peel; one teaspoonful Angostura Bitters;
 one pony brandy ; one pony maraschino; one pony
 white curagoa; one wineglass sherry; one quart
 daret; one bottle soda; several lumps of ice.
 Ornament with fresh mint.
               CLARET LEMONADE
                (Use a Large Glass).
    Three-quarters tablespoonful of sugar; six to
eight dashes of lemon juice. Fill up with water;
shake up well with a shaker, ornament with fruits
in season, and top it off with half-teaspoonful An
gostura Bitters; half-glass of claret.    Be careful
 to have the claret flowing on top of lemonade
and serve with a straw. Greatly improved by a little
ice and less water.
                IRISH COCKTAIL.
     Three dashes Angostura Bitters; one-half
whisky; one-half Vermouth; fill with ice, mix,
and strain into a cocktail glass.
               LEMON COCKTAIL.
    Lemon juice; three dashes Angostura Bitters;
sweeten to taste; fill with ice, mix, and strain into
a cocktail glass.
                         10
                    CIDER CUP
                  (use Glass Jug).
    Half teaspoonful sugar; one rind of lemon;
three slices orange; three slices lemon; one slice
cucumber peel; one teaspoonful Angostura Bitters;
one pony brandy; one pony maraschino; one pony
white curaQoa; one wineglass sherry; one quart
cider; one bottle soda; several lumps of ice.
Ornament with fresh mint.
    ANGOSTURA AND MINERAL WATERS.
    Half-teaspoonful of Angostura added to
mineral waters of any kind is a vast improvement.
     Large glass with two or three lumps of ice; a
dash or two of Angostura Bitters; one or two
slices of orange. Fill up glass with soda, lemonade,
or other mineral water, and place a tea spoon filled
with sugar on top of the glass for use at discretion.
     Should a long drink not be desired, a little
pure orange or lemon juice sugared, with a dash or
two of Angostura added to suit taste, makes a very
refreshing sip.
            ANGOSTURA BARLEY WATER.
     One teaspoonful of Robinson s Patent Barley
mi.xed wdth a little cold water, the juice of one
lime, and two tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar.
     Pour on about two pints of boiling water, and
leave to cool.
     Serve with a dash of Angostura and soda w'ater
to taste.
                          11
The original manufacture of a few bottles of Angostura
Bitters for private consumption has developed into
an industry with an output of nearly a million
  bottles a year and a world-wide distribution.




  fmmw.




               DR. SIEGERT, 1824.

                         12
    EFORE telling of other dainties wherein An
B gostura plavs an important role, we reproduce
a few appreciations from well-known sources:
CHARLES KINGSLEY,in his Letters and Memoirs
           of his Life.                            ,-    .      r
      \fter euloffising the beauties oj the Isiand of
Trinirfad refers to the ■national use of Bitters:
    Moreo er, there are the onderful Angostura Bitters
(the same as cured Humboldt of his fe er) hich people
ta e out here before dinner, or hen et. tired or chilly
and their effect is magical. I shall hring some home and
get Haynes to try them on the ne t case of ague or lo
fe er    they ,are a tonic.

  SI TY YEARS' TRAVEL AND ADVENTURE IN
           THE FAR EAST.
 By John Dillon Boss.         I'lMis ters : Il lchinson a d Co.
 Bages 4 and 44. Period 1846.                        .i.innpr
     ■'This comes of dining ith a Merchant s ippei,
gro led Bar spiir. I' e got a head on me li e a toysnop.
and find that I'm e pected to to     a monstrous   ind- ammer
from here to Jerusalem 1                 .     t         t
         If you    ill in ite me to your cabin. I daresay 1 can
relie e you of that little headache in a brace of sha es, and
 e can tal o er other things after ards. '
     So the t 'o Captains ent belo -, and once they          ere
comfortably seated in Bar spur's cabin, it turned out that
North ood's prescription as a hair of the dog, in other
 ords, ust a little champagne          ith a fe      drops
of Angostura Bitters in it. So a small               ith
the attendant Angostura as put on the table, and
  hen the champagne as finished B'a.r spur s headache
had someho     disappeared    hilst Nortli ood feelingly
obser ed that he ne er felt better in his life.

 WITH         ITCHENER TO           HARTOUM. (Stee ens.)
        In the chapter on The Pathology of Tnirst,'' the            ' I
author describes ho       after a morning bath,    coolness and
comfort reign e ternally, yet       ithin you are dry, ery dry
                                1
 and shrunken. . . , Whisky and soda is a fiiend that
 never fails you; but, better still, something tonic. . . .
  that triunipliant blend— Gin, Verinoutli, Angostura, Lame-
  juice and Soda. . . .
          "It spreads blessedly through body and spirit. It is
 soil in the sand, substance in the void. Life in Death !''
 IN THE 1900 CAMPAIGN IN SOUTH AFRICA.
      2,400 bottles were presented to sufferers from
dyseinter.y; this gift proved of great value, especially in
the second stage of the disease.
"STANDARD,'' August 6th, igio.
     CAPT. SCOTT'S ANTARCTIC EXPEDITION.
 —Amongst a varied assortment of provisions and comforts
 taken oji the new e.xpedition to the Antarctic there is a
 fippljy ofDr. Siegert's Angostura Bitters. There is wisdom
 in this^ 23       Angostura   is not only a luxury and
 a pick-me-up, but has renowned medicinal qualities which
 render it almost indispensable as a tonic and as a preventa-
tiye of fevei- g,,,-] dysentry in those Equatorial spheres
 which will have to be traversed on the voyage southwards,
and which will be equally valuable as a dietetic in the
mhospibable Polar regions.
"VENEZUELA; or, Sketches of Life in a South
     American Republic."
  By Edward B. Eastwick, C.B., F.B.S., late Secretarv of
  the Legislation at the Court of Persia, and Commissioner
  for the Venezuelan Loan, 18G4.
      Page 250      In Ciudad Bolivar (where the Factory
     first esiablished) is the far-famed tonic Angostura
Bitters for which prizes have been awarded at the English
exhibitions.'                                           6"="
"THE RED BOOK OF THE WEST INDIES."
  By A. Macmillan, F.R.G.S.         Puhlishers: IP. II, and L
  CoUingridge. Page 191 :
1
lose -I Mcharm
     Its  ithoutand
                 the aroma,
                      Angostura
                            and Bitters
                                many ofthe
                                        theaperitif would
                                            most popular
pick-me-ups
Bitters
             would cease to be, for it is the Angostura
        tiiat give them piquancy, potency, and indivi
duality. They are the magic drops that blend sweets and
acids into an exquisite harmony of taste and odour."
                               14
  SOME OTHER DAINTY RECIPES.

           ANGOSTURA LEMON ICE.
    One quart water, five lemons, two pounds of
sugar, and two teaspoonsful of Angostura Bitters
Grate half the lemons, squeeze out, and put rind,
juice, the water and the sugar into a pan, set it
on the fire and stir until the sugar is dissolved and
it becomes quite warm.          Then remove, and add
another quart of water and Angostura Bitters, and
strain into the freezer. If it is not tart enough,
add a solution of citric acid to suit taste; then
freeze in the usual manner.
                  FRUIT JSALAD.
    A few drops of Angostura add a subtle and
delicate distinction which makes the hostess the
envy.of all her friends.
                   CAKE ICING.
    One or more teaspoonsful of Angostura Bitters
to a pound of sugar give an exquisite flavouring.
                   CRAPE ICE.
    Two pounds of sugar; two lemons ; one orange ;
two pounds of grapes(black preferred); one dessert
spoonful Angostura Bitters; one quart water. Put
grapes, sugar, and water in a pan and place over a
slow fire, under constant stirring bring it to a boil,
then pass it through a sieve, leaving skin and pips
behind. Squeeze the lemons and orange and add
                           15
 the juice. When cold, freeze in the usual manner.
 If this is to be served in glasses, beat up four egg
 whites quite stiff and mix it into the batch smooth
 and foamy. A few drops of cochineal should be
 added to give it a more attractive appearance, and
 two or three whole grapes placed on each portion.
             ANGOSTURA BLANC-MANGE.
        Slake six teaspoonsful of cornflour with a little
 ^ilk. Boil         pints of good, sweet milk, remove
 rom fire and pour the slaked cornflour into it,
stirring well. Then hoil for fully ten minutes,
stirring continuously, and, while stirring, add two
teaspoonsful of Angostura Bitters.         Pour into a
quart mould and allow to cool. This will, give a
refreshing and wholesome sweet of delicate flavour
ond attractive colouring.
             ANGOSTURA SPONGE CAKE.
     Beat yolks of four eggs until thick and creamy ;
add two-thirds cup sugar (a little at a time), beating
with an egg-beater; add 3 teaspoonsful of Angos
tura Bitters, then the whites of the eggs (beaten
until stiff). When the whites are partly mixed with
yolks and sugar, add two-thirds cup of flour mixed
with 1 teaspoonful salt and sifted.       Bake for one
hour.
              ANGOSTURA ICE CREAM.
    One quart of milk, two eggs, five teaspoonsful
Angostura Bitters, and Vanilla essence to taste..
When cold, freeze in the usual manner.
                            16
            HOLLANDAISE CREAM.
    Prepare a custard with one-and-a-half pints of
milk, six eggs, and half pound sugar; set when
cold with a little gelatine ; sweeten to taste. Serve
with this cream a little fruit sauce made \\ ith the
syrup from your fruit, coloured pink with prepared
cochineal and flavoured with one tablespoonful of
Angostura Bitters.
            ICED CABINET PUDDING.
    Take a clean mould or basin and place into it
some sponge cake cut into fingers of a moderate
thickness. Add a few preserved cherries, a little
angelica, and to improve this, pudding put in alter
nate layers some apricots, peaches, and a little
pineapple. Next take one quart of milk, to which
add two ozs. sugar, six yolks of eggs, three or four
drops of essence of vanilla and pour this over your
cake (custard must be boiled). Soak li ozs. of
gelatine in cold water, then drain off, melt slowly
and when cold add to cold custard. Have some
broken ice prepared; place mould on this or in
ice-box, and let it stand for two hours. Turn out
on to a silver dish (which should be kept on the
ice also); have ready some syrup from the tinned
fruits, to which should be added one tablespoonful
of Angostura Bitters to flavour, and pour this
round the pudding-
               ANGOSTURA JELLY.
     Take 1 quart water; 3 ozs. of gelatine; i lt>-
                           17
 loaf sugar; rind and juice of three lemons; a small
 piece of cinnamon ; 4 cloves; Ibayleaf; 6 coriander
 seeds. Place altogether in a stewpan; when near
 to the boil add the beaten whites of two eggs, then
 bring to the boil. Take from the fire and let it
 stand for ten minutes; then pass through jelly
 bag or a piece of muslin into a basin or cooler;
 after a few minutes add 1 tablespoonful of An
 gostura. Place your jelly in a cool place to set into
 your glass or mould.
     This jelly will be found very nice with fresh
fruits placed in the jelly, or eaten with fresh fruit.
      MACEDOINE DE fruits AU ANGOSTURA.
       If using fresh fruits, prepare a syrup.       Take
I lb. loaf sugar, 1 quart water, place on stove and
bring to boil. When cold, add 1 tablespoonful
Angostura. Place fruits in a glass or china dish
and pour syrup over. This is very nice to eat with
sponge fingers or Genoese cake cut into fingers
and sugared over. Tinned fruits should be treated
in the same way, except use .syrup from fruits in
place of prepared .syrup.

mpnt A ''' flavouring for Clinstmas Pudding.? and Miiice-
tfl                      exquisite and distinctive flavour
usuahy "Jfsed)                   .substance is the quantity
sbarn^nJ the appetite and
snaipens               AjPPed in Angostura,
                          encourages         taken daily,
                                     good health.
                  Angostura give an excellent flavour
ing m SOUPS. JUGUEO HARE, and similar dishes.
                            18
ORIGIN         OF      ANGOSTURA              BITTERS.

     Ill 1820, Dr. J. G. B. Siegert, a highly accomplished
medical savaiiit, settled in Venezuela and devoted much
time to the scientific study of the merits of tropical plants.
In 1824 his researches resulted in the making of ai-omatic,
carminative bitters, the success of which amongst the
doctor's patients and friends caused him to commence
manufacture on a commercial scale. From their place of
origin the Bitters became widely known as " Angostura,"
althougli, in 1846, the name of the Venezuelan town was
changed to Ciudad Bolivar. Ever since those early days
the secret formula of the renowned Dr. Siegert has been
carefully guarded by his descendants and successors in the
great business which he founded, and even to the present
time the work of compounding is done personally by mem
bers of tlie Siegert family. The well-deserved repute in
which A'Ugostura Bitters are hold throughout the world is
shown by the facj, of their having received the highest
distinction and recognition in all Exhibitions of importance
held since 1862, the latest being the Gold Medal, with
diploma, at Lucerne, 1923—the highest award obtainable.
If further proof of their excellence be needed, it is found
in the Royal warrants with which the firm is honoured.


                                   [®g5.4-.




                            Purveyors by
                            Appointment
                                   to

                       H.M. King George V.
                         T.M. the King and
                          Queen of Spain.

                              19
               OUTSIDE VIEW of: FACTORY




                                     !|



               OUR      LABEL


    The unique label used" on Angostura Bitters
Bottles possesses an almost historic interest from
the fact that it has remained in its present peculiar
form for' a century. In that respect it typifies the
unchanging high quality of Dr. Siegert's Angos
tura Bitters. Printed as it is in English, French,
Spanish and German, it offers an opportunity to
refresh one's linguistic attainments by interesting
comparisons.
                         20
                                                " 'k ■




#
                  DR. SIEGERT'S

    ANGOSTURA BITTERS
                  INDISPENSABLE FOR


                  Cocktails.


        Delicious with all kinds of Wines,
        — Spirits and Mineral Waters. —



    Sole Consignees:

      HENDERSON 6- CO. {LONDON). Ltd..
             FINSBURY COURT,
                       FJNSBURY PAVEMENT,
                               LONDON, E.C.2. j ■
                                                         Im
                                            /
                                                              . VK


                   .'.-A;
                        SATISFACTION.
                 (Composed on the spur of the moment by a
                 talented Motorist while touring in the South
                     of France, and sent as a compliment.)

                                        113


                 The Drink was long—the Drink was cold,
                 The Drink was worth its weight in gold ;
                 For Summer heat, and dust of June
                 Creates a thirst, alas I too soon.

                 A Motorist in parlous plight
                 Did at a wayside Inn alight.
                 And wishful straight to quench his thirst.
                 He called for Lemonade, but first
                     Mixed it with ANGOSTURA.


                                        C3

                      ANGOSTURA BITTERS
          Can be obtained from any Wine Merchant throughout the World
                                      or from
                     HENDERSON & CO. (LONDON), LIMITED,
                     rmSBUBY COUBT,    ::   FINSBURY PAVEMENT,
                                   LONDON, E.C.2.




                      J. J. KnUHiut & Co,, Ltd., Moorgat*, E.C.
\"-
 \    y
