        DRINKS-
LONG & SHORT




                      Design by J. E. Laboureiir




                 by

Nina Toye             A. H. Adair
  With a Preface, In a Glass" by
  X mARCEL ROULESTIN


  Wrapper design by J. E. LABOUREUR
This is a June book,
       and if summer deigns
       to stay, it should be
the June book. For it con
tains the recipes of the nec
tar which Mr.Adair dispenses
at that newest and most in
triguing of restaurants for
which M. Boulestin purveys
the ambrosia.     And if you
have made your way to that
corner df Leicester Square
where Boulestin's hangs out                N\

a tricolor awning, you will
know that Mr. Adair's cock
tails and juleps and punches
are drinks with a difference.
What riches are here for the
thirsty—drinks long and            1...,
short, steaming and iced, dry
drinks, sweet drinks, stiff
drinks, soft drinks (yes, one
or two for "our American
friends "), and a preface. In a
Glass, by M. Boulestin, ex
hilarating as a cocktail itself.
                                                >1




                                   f I'.   .
                                                                                            ■   ... ; 'A\5^




                ■ ■/ • >•-.
    ■ ' 'y'"*y ' i
                          ^»1 .




                . 'i'Si-v-
f ■-;, I > '• ,




            '   \ 'i •"■ ■




                   y- '<


                r Vf .,-' ,




k   n^'-^



    •                 '   •




        ■       V '-4' • , .



                                  iTffl'i'   '   • If <|-   ■ -ll'l -Tr^-'tlT -v I--II llili(^' llll   II l id
                                   '




                                                    i




                                                W
                                       V.V* ■




WMB:&
            HS    ■
                 \' ■     'i ■




>Vi(   If

                 L'i ■».' .ijth'
Drinks—Long and Short
                                           By
            X. MARCEL BOULESTIN

            Simple French Cooking
               for English Homes
                                  5s. net.


              A Second Helping
                                  6s. net.

            WILLIAM               HEINEMANN           LTD.




                            ■ '   -i . ■       '


                                       1 • '
                        I




...   . s
                .   -




 .V- ♦'




                                                       :>* --w   ' M >

                                                   1 t' "
■■ %




   ■■■ ' A
                                       I
                'h


                                     Design by J. E,Laboureur




  i'!r           ■'


           -I, ,\f',". ■> 1
    S-Wil-.r'NK*'"''



t? i:             V.                                      ■'■'■■■ ^ v;,
                                                          , ■ -■ f,   . ' !■
        4 ' ' p'* \ J-
                                                                  v(. "• • ■
                                               'H.   '•


                              '/•'
            Drinks—Long
                                            Short

                                            By

 Nina Toye                                         A. H. Adair
                             With a Preface by
               X. MARCEL BOULESTIN.




                                       LONDON:

      WILLIAM HEINEMANN, LTD.
                                            1925




. «—ifc -^^■^>■*^'■^'-1^1 1 |||ilt\-   iH
                         First Published, 1925                  w




y:'.)




        Printed in Great Britain by Woods & Sons, Ltd,, London, N,i
Mr. Adair wishes to express his thanks to the
Editors of Vogue, Soe and the 'Dally S'pfe" for
their permission to reproduce some of the receipes
which appear in this book.
•   -1 .      ^•


           .i-Vh-
                             T        ,




                CONTENTS

                             PAGB


 Preface. In a Glass             ix

 Introduction    .               1

 Practical Hints                 7


cocktails-
 Gin Cocktails .                 11

 Rum Cocktails                   21

 Whisky Cocktails .              23

 Miscellaneous Cocktails         27

 Non-Alcoholic Cocktails         37


LONG drinks-
 Juleps                          39

 Cold Punches .                  43

 Cups .                          45

 Hot Punches .                   49

 Miscellaneous                   51

 Non-Alcoholic                   57

 Still-Room Recipes              61




                       Vll
4 :■
                 PREFACE

                   IN A GLASS

I SHOULD state here, now, without any further delay,
and emphatically,that,as a wine drinker, and a gourmet,
I disapprove of cocktails. I specially disapprove of the
English concoctions called (for no reason whatsoever)
cocktails, and served two minutes before dinner.
   The cocktail habit, as generally practised in England,
is a vice—in the same way that the American baseball
is a form of sadism or of masochism—unless it be a
mortification. It does not in the least correspond to
the elegant drinking of various mixtures in Parisian
bars, or to the even more charming cocktail parties in
private houses. It is then six or seven o'clock, and of
course, you would not dream of dining before nine.
But the idea of swallowing a strong cocktail just before
your soup, then expectir^g to appreciate and enjoy
good food and noble wines amounts to sheer insanity.
How much saner, for instance, is my friend Nicole, who
drinks cocktails at night, between dances. And what
champagne ever tasted better than that pint of Clicquot,
bought and drunk hurriedly, at breakfast time, during
a ride in occupied Flanders ?
  Yet, one can disapprove and appreciate at the same
time. And the. poetic charm of the cocktail is so
powerful, its appearance so perversely fascinating, its
perfume so complex, its effect so subtle that one
cannot help, not only yielding to so many attractions,
but also being, at times, and for reasons almost purely
literary, moved, if not to tears, at least to exaltation.
                           iz
 X                                 Drinks—Long and Short

  In fact, as it were, the mysticism of St. Therese, the
pity of Dostoievsky, the laughter of the sun, the speed
of a non-stop express, the jungle of Douanier Rousseau
—in a small, thin glass, frosted and warming.
       "Les invites s'attardent longtemps.
       Eiendus dans des rocking-chairs Us s'abandonnent
a ce cliniat amollissani.
        Sur tin signe de son maitre le vieux Jupiter sort d'un
petit meuble laque
          Une bouteille de Xeres
          Un seau a glace
        Des citrons . . .
        Personne tie parlait plus . . .
        II n'y avail plus un souffle dans I'air
        On entendait dans le lointain le rire enorme de la
grenouille-tatireau qui abonde dans ces parages."
     It is a poem of Blaise Cendrars. It might be an
etching of Dufresne. Drinks, long and short. Drinks
as the expression of modern life, of post-war civilisation.
A romantic symbol, both remote and precise. The
collaboration of the scientist and the poet—that is, the
barman.
   It began centuries ago, probably about 1885. There
is a play of Donnay (he had just left the Chat Noir and
the august Academic Franfaise had not yet looked upon
him as a possible member) in which an act. begins
by a dialogue about American drinks. I cannot re
member exactly, but it runs charmingly, something like
this ;—
 "Void venir Vete, c'est le moment de boire des alcools
glacis (we said des alcools in those heroic days). Savez
vousfaire des cocktails f J'ai un ami,garfon fort riche et
qui aime boire." . . .
  There was, at the same time, or slightly before, that
delightful genius Alphonse Allais, also his immortal
Drinks—Long and Short                                     xi
Captain Cap, great amateur of logic and of drinks.
These are the classics.
   There was the Bar de la Paix where celebrities
spent an hour drinking short and long mixtures of an
American origin, by way of a change from the absinthe
dear to Verlaine and to officers in provincial garrison
towns. America was not dry. England had no income
tax. Drugs were unknown in Paris.
   Now, a new phase in the history of the cocktails :
amateurs attempt them, and successfully. To the
technique of the professional they add the intelligent
taste and the imagination of the educated man—though
I would not go so far as recommending the Desespoir
invented by M. Jean Cocteau. M. Paul Morand is, I
understand a genius at mixing drinks (there ought to be
one of his called Les amis nouveaiix). Rumour has it
that M. Max Jacob is at present working on a Cocktail a
I'eau Beniie, which promises well. And M. Darius
Milhaud who seems to be an expert in melodious drinks
as well as in musical dissonances, writes :
  "Sous les tropiques, le cocktail est une necessile. Saint
leger Leger une disait qu'ilfallait la latitude de Singapoure
pour comprendre le cocktail. A Rio-de-Janeiro pendant
les mois d'ele, il etait indispensable, pour eviter I'acca-
blante torpeur des journees torrides, d'alter le soir des six
heures au bar de I'hotel des Etrangers. Vetu de blanc,
tres elSgant, le Barman dispose d'un choix merveilleux
et I'on peut varier a I'injini la boisson qui stimule et qui
fortifie. . . ."
   In London also, on a chilly summer evening, cocktails
are une necessile, and their exotic charm remains un
touched (I am not speaking of the shouting, immediate,
brutal satisfaction of almost pure gin,or of its effects on
a dull company at dinner). But how few appreciate
their fuller meaning, their more subtle value. One can
feel exquisitely in love after two cocktails a I'absinthe
and I have had drinks mixed by a negro barman which
Xll                        Drinks—Long and Short

had a languorous and nostalgic appeal, which made me
homesick for countries I did not know.
 "Fuir!la-basfuir! Je sens que des oiseaux sont ivres
  D'etre parmi I'ecutne inconnue ei les deux!
                                            "
 Ah ! names of tropical islands, liqueurs sweet and
strange, negro carvings, souvenirs of the heroines of
Francis Jammes, intense vegetations, steamers, illustra
tions in the Larousse dictionary, vague echo of childish
longings, pathetic visions. The Explorer stays at home.
                            X. Marcel Boulestin.




                                             ..
            INTRODUCTION

The derivation of the word "cocktail" seems to
be shrouded in mystery and though there are
several stories connected with the origin of this
delicious and subtle little aperitif, these stories
differ so widely that none of them seem worth
quoting. But it is interesting to know that the
cocktail habit was more or less established in
America so early as 1869 and in a manual on the
subject of mixed drinks, written about that time
and now relegated to the Dead Language Depart
ment of American bookshops, one finds an
amusing paragraph concerning ice; "Of late
years, artificial ice has taken to some extent,
largely in the Southern States, the place of the
natural product."
   Things have changed since those days and
icebergs, like solitude, are becoming elusive.
The method of mixing a cocktail has altered too,
for the shaker was unknown at the time of the
first cocktails, which were mixed in a glass and
stirred with a spoon, a process far less satis
factory than that of our present day.
                            Drinks—Long and Short

  To the making ofcocktails there is no end, nor
is the art likely to perish from the earth. The
word "art" is used advisedly,for the compound
ing of a cocktail is a delicate business. There is
as much art in the blending of flavours in a glass
as in the blending of colours on a canvas or in a
scheme of decoration.       Even the choice of the
appropriate cocktail for any occasion betrays the
hostess' savoirfaire—one might better say savott
boire—or her lack of it.
^ Those who despise the cocktail, who denounce
cocktail-drinking as a pernicious habit, are out of
their own mouths condemned. The person who
absorbs six or more cocktails at a sitting is no
more and no less a commendable member of
society than would be he who, as a prelude to
dinner, consumed a pound of caviare or six dozen
oysters, or in the middle of the afternoon regaled
himself on a box of salted almonds or a barrel of
olives. Over-indulgence in cocktails betrays a
gross spirit and an utter lack of understanding of
the role of the cocktail.
  Our forebears were wont to pursue the party
spirit, which they called conviviality, through a
procession of bottles of sherry,claret,champagne,
port and what not, marching steadily athwart the
repast and after; that pursuit ended only too
frequently in the recumbent forms of those same
valiant drinkers being swept up with the crumbs
in the morning. What was worse, not infre-
 Drinks—Long and Short

 q-uently those convivial souls grew quarrelsome,
 and your three-or-more-bottle man found himself,
 without quite knowing how he got there, on the
 duelling ground, while in his ears echoed the
 grim order; "Pistols for two and coffee for one."
 Not that the duel was the ineluctable last green
 of a promising drinking career, it was purely
 incidental, a bunker by the way; but with gout
 looming ahead as the inevitable i 8th hole of a
  triple-bottled course, the expectation of life must
  have been distinctly poor. One may doubt, too,
  whether the cause of conviviality was truly
. served by those prodigal potations.
   Your modern diners-out and above all the
 hostess who entertains them, are no less imbued
 by the party spirit but they prefer greater
 economy of means and, reversing the ancestral
 process, choose to begin dinner, not only to end
 it, on good terms with themselves and^ the world.
 As an introduction to the modern, more brilliant
 and certainly less uproarious conviviality, the
 cocktail stands supreme.       Nothing else so
 adequately bridges the dull interval between
 the guests' arrival and the announcement of
 dinner, not to mention that awful first quarter of
an hour when, uninspired and forlorn in a cock
tail-less house, one casts about in one's mind for
a subject unconnected with the weather with
which to open conversational battle with one's
neighbour. Sherry will not do the trick, nor
4                        Drinks—Long and Short

yet the experience of the most accomplished
hostess, charm she never so wisely. These
specifics work slowly, and by the time their
virtues begin to tell, dinner is a third over. But
start the proceedings with a cocktail and see how,
as if by magic, your guests unbend from their
proud estate, mark how their tongues wag, and
with what lively interest they engage their
respective-partners! It would be interesting to
learn how many hostesses owe their reputation
for brilliant and successful entertaining to that
modest ally, the cocktail.
  Do not forget, however, that there are cock
tails and cocktails.    Many of them are not
everybody's meat, and a few are poison to some.
The dry cocktail has its votaries, and to these a
sweet concoction is anathema, while the lover of
sweet flavours will make a medicine-taking face
on tasting the purest gem of a dry collection.
Consider well your company, the menu and the
occasion before selecting the appropriate cock
tail which should be as inevitable as the mot
juste. It is a subtly artful affair, this process of
selection.   One cocktail will make an admirable
prelude to champagne, another will attune the
pilate to hock or cider cup, but neither of these
would be the proper introduction to claret or
burgundy, while whisky-and-soda, though
apparently a neutral drink, requires a different
herald. Does the party threaten to prove heavy
Drinks—Long and Short                             5

in the hand, leaven its lumpishness with an
absinthe cocktail, a Green Devil or a Kingston
cocktail, and watch the result.
  Concerning the menu, as a general rule the
richer the food the stronger and brighter the
cocktail, and vice versa. There is, you see, more
in this question of choice than meets the eye.
Many a good dinner has been ruined by the
wrong cocktail.
  The proof the pudding may be in the eating,
but the proof of the cocktail is not only in the
pleasure in sipping its subtle deliciousness, but
also in the enlivening, slightly exhilarating effect
it has upon the drinker.       Considered in its
relation to the dinner or supper party, it is as
the patch on a powdered beauty's cheek, the deft
touch that gives piquancy to a frock, the opening
phrase that rivets one's attention to a story, the
high light in a picture.
  But the cocktail needs no apology. Nothing
succeeds like success, and the ^success of the
cocktail has long since been recognised by those
who use it with discrimination in its proper place.
It is not the mission of the cocktail to allay thirst
or to while away the afternoon or evening hours.
For that purpose exists the legion of long drinks,
alcoholic or otherwise.
   For leisurely consumption during a hot after
 noon or evening a gin rickey or mintjulep,iced tea
 or coffee, a rum punch,a fruit or other long drink
                         Drinks—Long and Short

will refresh both mind and body, while hot punch
or toddy lend charm to the coldest of winter
evenings if served to the accompaniment of a
good fire. Conversation in both cases will take
care of itself, and that, oh hostess, is the secret
of successful entertaining.
          PRACTICAL HINTS

It may be possible to make bricks without straw
—that is a question for brickmakers to decide.
Certainly it is not possible to make cocktails
without ice. Innocent of ice, the drink may be
an aperitif or anything else you choose to call it,
but a cocktail it is not. Ice, then, is the chief
requisite, and unless otherwise specified in the
recipe it should be chipped or cracked into small
pieces, not shaved. Shaved ice melts too quickly
with an unpleasantly diluting effect on the cock
tail. First catch your ice then,and the remainder
of the process is fairly simple.
  Although it is more convenient to use a proper
shaker, the lack of one need deter no ardent
spirit. A wide-mouthed glass bottle with a
tightly fitting screw top, such as is used for
bottling fruit, supplemented by a strainer, will
serve the purpose in an emergency. Even an
ordinary jug with a swizzle stick to stir the
mixture will answer quite well. By-the-bye, a
swizzle stick should be included in the drink
mixer's outfit, since it is called for in certain
recipes, and no other utensil will take its place.
                         7
 8
                          Drinks—Long and Short
 But to return to the shaker. The best type is
 that shaped like a jug or coffee-pot, the spout
 being fitted with a screw-cap and the stopper
 with a good cork. This kind of shaker does not
 leak as do so many of the ordinary type, and the
 spout and handle facilitate pouring out. Also it
 IS more decorative in appearance. One should
 never forget that the charm of cocktail-making,
 or any other ritual connected with eating and
 drinking,,lies in nicety of detail. The pleasure
 of the eye should precede that of the palate.
   In mixing the cocktails given in this book, the
ingredients should be poured into the shaker in
the precise order given. In many cases the
success of the drink depends on the observance
of this direction; alteration of the order may
change the entire character of the cocktail, for
flavour is an exceedingly subtle thing. In every
case, unless otherwise directed, the ice must be
added last of all. The authors have, for con
venience sake, avoided using an arbitrary
measure such as the jigger; in its stead they have
chosen as a measuring unit one of the glasses in
which the cocktail is to be served. Glasses vary
in capacity, and the jigger measure may cause
the hostess the embarrassment of making either
too much which in the case of a popular
cocktail is a fault,if anything, on the right side—
or too little, which from the convivial point of
view is that crime worse than a sin : a blunder.
Drinks—Long and Short                             9

  The cocktail should be well shaken, stood a
minute to frost and shaken again, after which it
should be poured out at once. If any guest
comes late to the feast his portion should be
poured out with the rest. If left in the shaker
the remaining ice will melt and dilute the cocktail
of that dilatory one until it is a libel on the name.
If desired, the shaker can be emptied, the extra
glass or glasses poured back into it and the
receptacle set in a cool place, preferably the ice
chest, until required, when it should again be
shaken.
  Some cocktails may be made up in large
quantities and kept bottled ready to be iced and
shaken, but do not attempt this with any cocktail
of which fresh or bottled fruit juice, jelly or
anything of a syrupy nature is an ingredient.
  When vintage wines are to be served with
dinner, it is a good plan to serve with the cocktail
tiny sandwiches or some otherdight hors dceuvre,
in order that the palate may not be spoiled for
the delicately flavoured wines to follow. Very
small and thin pate de foie gras sandwiches or
caviar sandwiches with the merest squeeze of
lemon on each are suitable, also olives, salted
nuts, biscuits plain or cheese, cheese straws, or
small rolled slices of brown bread-and-butter,
with or without a tiny strip of pimento in the
middle. No hostess should forget that a choice
wine has always the right of way ; nothing must
7^^




       lO                       Drinks—Long and Short

       be allowed to destroy or even lessen the delicacy
      of its bouquet. By providing hors d'ceuvres with
      the cocktail, choosing the cocktail itself with
      regard to the dinner wines, and allowing a short
      interval to elapse between the cocktail and the
      serving of dinner, the danger can be avoided.
        The cocktails selected for publication in this
      book have all been tested and approved. Some
      have been contributed by friends whose gener
      osity irr imparting their cherished recipes the
       authors gratefully acknowledge, the others are
      the original invention of the authors themselves.
      Recipes belonging to clubs have that fact men
      tioned in the name. For general convenience,
      recipes which in their original form made cocktails
      for two, four, five, or more persons have been
      standardised, so that every cocktail in this book
      provides for six persons unless otherwise stated.
         In making punch the sugar should be melted
      in water, boiling water if the punch be hot, and
      added to the mixture as a syrup.
          COCKTAILS

            GIN COCKTAILS
               ORANGE BLOSSOM

                  (Four People)

  For this cocktail take two glasses of gin and
two of orange juice; add six drops of orange
bitters and a teaspoonful of essence of orange
blossom (it can be bought at most stores and
Soho shops, the French kind called eau de fleurs
d'orangey being the best). Put the mixture into
the shaker with ice, shake well, and serve.

                 PAT'S SPECIAL

  Take two glasses of gin, two of sherry and
two of Dubonnet; put these \nto a shaker with
two dashes of Creme de Cassis and two dashes of
Abricotine, Add broken ice, shake well and
serve with a cherry and a small slice of orange.
(This recipe is from Hatchett's Bar).

             PRUNEAUX COCKTAIL

  Two glasses of gin, two of sherry, one of
prune syrup and one of strained orange juice.
Shake for longer than usual.
                       II
12                      Drinks—Long and Short

                     MADGE

   Three glasses of gin, two of Dubonnet and one
of orange juice. Add a dash of lime juice before
shaking, and sugar to taste.

                 SPECIAL MARTINI

   Four glasses of gin, one and a half of French
Vzrmouth, and not quite half a glass of Essence
of Orange Blossom. Before shaking, add a dash
of Absinthe and one or two of Angostura bitters.

                   WESTBROOK

  Three and a half glasses of gin, one and a half
of Italian Vermouth and one glass of whisky.
Just before shaking add a little sugar to taste.

                     KICKER

   Three glasses of gin, two of sweetened lemon
juice and half a glass of French Vermouth.

                     BITER

  Four glasses of gin, two glasses of sweetened
lemon juice and two of Chartreuse. Add a dash
of Absinthe ]\xsi before shaking.

                     SPRING

  Three glasses of gin, two of Dubonnet and of
Benedictine.   Add a dash of Wormwood bitters
and serve with an olive in each glass
Drinks—Long and Short                        13

                     GASPER

  Three glasses of gin and three of Absinthe.
You may add a little sugar if you like but
nothing else. Shake very thoroughly.
                   MOONSHINE

  Three glasses of gin, two glasses of French
Vermouth and one of Maraschino. Add, before
shaking, a drop of Wormwood bitters.
                     OPALE

  Three glasses of gin,two of sweetened orange
juice and one glass of Cointreau and essence of
orange in equal proportions.
                  YELLOW DAISY

  Three glasses, of gin, two of Vermouth and one
of Grand- Marnier.    Add a dash of Absinthe
before shaking.
                  WHITE he;at
  Put six glasses of gin into the shaker with a
dash of Absinthe and a dash of orange bitters.
This cocktail must be shaken very thoroughly
and must be drunk immediately.

            MARMALADE COCKTAIL
  Sweet and slightly bitter, this cocktail is dis
tinctly a luncheon aperitif. Two tablespoonfuls
of marmalade (Cooper's Oxford Marmalade), the
juice of one large juicy lemon or two small ones.
 ^4                      Drinks—Long and Short
 and four glasses of gin are the ingredients of
 this cocktail. Shake well, and pinch a piece of
 fresh orange peel over each glass.

               APRICOT COCKTAIL

   Two glasses and a half of orange juice, two
 glasses and a half of gin, one puddingspoon
 brimming full of apricot brandy. Ice well and
 shake.

                  GREEN DEVIL

   A potent cocktail, very dry, warranted to wake
up any party. Contrary to most cocktails no
depression is felt when the effect wears off.
This cocktail can be mixed or bottled for use.
Four glasses of gin, three quarters of a glass of
Noilly Prat Vermouth, one quarter of a glass of
Italian Vermouth {Martini Rossi), half a glass of
Centerbe, green and unsweetened. Ice and shake
well. Seiwe so cold that the glasses are frosted.

             M'EN FOUS COCKTAIL

  A mild cocktail. One glass and a half of
grapefruit juice, to which add one teaspoonful of
lemon juice; one glass and three quarters of gin
(generous measure), two glasses of Noilly Prat
Vermouth, three quarters of a glass of Liqueur
des lies Creme dOrange. Ice and shake. Rinse
the glasses with Orange Bitters before serving
cocktail.
Drinks—Long and Short                           ^5
            27th OF APRIL COCKTAIL
  One glass and a half of gin. Full measure.
Two glasses brimming of Noilly Prat Vermouth,
three quarters of a glass of Italian Vermouth
{Martini Rossi), three quarters of a glass of May
Blossom Brandy, three teaspoonfuls of sloe gin.
Ice and shake. Rinse the glasses with Orange
Bitters.
                ORANGE MARTINI
  Two glasses and a half of gin, two glasses of
Noilly Prat Vermouth, one glass of Italian Ver
mouth ; soak the thinly pared peel of an orange
(none of the white pith must be left on the peel)
in this mixture for an hour or two before icing
and shaking. Rinse the glasses with Orange
Bitters.
             RASPBERRY COCKTAIL
  This is a very refreshing summer cocktail.
Slightly crush a cupful of fresh raspberries and
add two glasses of gin. Let stand a couple of
hours. Strain. Add to the liquor thus obtained
a liqueur glass of Kirsch and two glasses of white
wine (not too dry a Hock, Graves, or Chablis).
Ice and shake. Put a fresh raspberry in each
glass when serving.
                  MOONLIGHT
  A very dry cocktail. One glass and a half of
grape-fruit juice, two glasses of gin, half a glass
of Kirsch, Mirabelle or Quetsch, two glasses of
16                        Drinks—Long and Short
white wine. Ice and shake well. Serve with a
thinly pared strip of lemon peel in each glass.
                   CAT'S EYE
  Half a glass of Kia Ora Lemon Squash, half a
glass of water, two glasses of gin, one table-
spoonful of Kirsch, half a glass of Cointreau, two
glasses (scant measure) Noilly Prat Vermouth.
Ice well and shake.      Serve an olive in each
glass.
                MAIDEN'S BLUSH

  An excellent luncheon cocktail. Two glasses
of gin, two glasses and a half of grapefruit juice,
half glass of grenadine, one puddingspoonful of
brandy, one dash of Peach Bitters. Use plenty
of ice. Can be served with a crystallised cherry
in each glass.
                MINT COCKTAIL
                      (Luncheon)
  Soak a bunch of fresh green mint in a glass
and a half of dry white wine for two hours. Add
half a glass of Creme de Menthe, two glasses of
gin and a glass and a half of the white wine.
Ice and shake well. Serve with a sprig of green
mint in each glass.
               ALMOND COCKTAIL
  Heat two glasses of gin (not to boiling point).
Add a teaspoonful of castor sugar. While cool
ing, soak in it six bitter almonds blanched and a
 Drinks—Long and Short                         17

crushed peach stone, if obtainable. When cold,
add a tablespoonful of Kirsch, one of Peach
Brandy, one glass of Noilly Prat Vermouth and
two glasses of sweet white wine. Shake with
two or three glasses of shaved ice.

               APRICOT COCKTAIL
                     (Sweet)
  Stir one teaspoonful of apricot jam into one
glass of apricot brandy. Add a teaspoonful of
Peach Bitters, two scant glasses of gin, two and
a half glasses of Noilly Prat Vermouth. Set the
shaker containing this mixture on ice until
thoroughly chilled and shake with shaved ice—
two or three glasses.

              APRICOT COCKTAIL
                      (Dry)
  Cut up two fresh apricots, crunch the stones,
and soak for a couple of Hours in a glass and a
half of brandy. Add two teaspoonfuls of Peach
bitters, two glasses of gin, and two glasses of
Noilly Prat Vermouth. Ice and shake.
                  MIDSUMMER
  A very pretty and refreshing summer cocktail.
One glass of the juice of fresh red currants, half
a glass of Sirop de Groseille. Mash a cupful, of
fresh raspberries and pour over them a glass of
brandy and two glasses of gin, add the currant
18                       Drinks—Long and Short
juice and the Sirop and let stand half an hour.
Add a glass of sweet white wine, ice, and shake.
Serve with a raspberry or small bunch ofcurrants
in each glass.

                  GRAPE COCKTAIL

  The juice of one lemon and a half, one and a
half teaspoonfuls of grape jelly (soft),four glasses
of, gin. Ice and shake. This cocktail can be
varied by substituting for the grape jelly any
kind of strongly flavoured fruit jelly.

                   CLOVER CLUB

  One glass and a half oigrenadine, one teaspoon-
ful of lemon juice, three and a half glasses of gin,
the white of one large egg. Shake in plenty of
ice and serve with a clover leaf on the top of
each glass.

            GRAPEFRUIT COCKTAIL. II

  This cocktail is light but insidious. Three
and a half glasses of gin, the juice squeezed from
one and a half large grape fruits, sugar to taste.
Ice and shake.

                 PLAIN GIN COCKTAIL

     Pare a lemon as thinly as possible. On the
peel pour four and a half glasses of gin, one
tablespoonful of syrup (less if a dry cocktail is
desired) one tablespoonful of Orange Bitters,
Drinks—Long and Short                          19

two dashes of Angostura Bitters, four glasses
of shaved ice.   Shake well, and serve with a
strip of lemon peel in each glass.

                    ORANGE
  One glass and a half of fresh orange juice, one
tablespoonful of Orange Bitters, three glasses of
gin, one teaspoonful of syrup (or a teaspoonful of
castor sugar heaping full), one scant glass Noilly
Prat Vermouth.   Chill the shaker in ice and shake
with largish lumps, so that not too much will
melt. Squeeze a piece of orange peel over each
glass before serving.




                                                     1
•   !
            RUM COCKTAILS
               KINGSTON COCKTAIL

  This cocktail owes its unique flavour to the
Pimento Dram and Kummel, without which it
becomes just an ordinary cocktail. Put three
glasses of Jamaica rum, one and a half glasses of
Kummel and one and a half of strained orange
juice into a shaker with a dash of Pxmento Dram.
Add broken ice, shake well and serve while
frothy.
                  RUM COCKTAIL
                    (Four People)
  Put in a shaker two glasses of Jamaica rum, a
glass of sweet fruit juice, and a glass of Cointreau
and lime juice in equal proportions. It is better
to use the juice of fresh limes when possible, but
if you cannot get them use unsweetened lime
juice. Add a pinch of aromatic pepper (this is
an important ingredient), fill up with ice, and
serve as usual.

               RUM COCKTAIL. II
  Two and a half glasses of Jamaica rum, one
and a half of Vermouth and two and a half of sweet
orange juice. Put this in the shaker with a pinch
of powdered cinnamon.
                         21
22                        Drinks—Long and Short

                      SUNSHINE
                 (For one Person)
  One teaspoonful of Grenadine, half a teaspoon-
ful of French Vermouth, half a teaspoonf^ul of
rum. Shake well.        This recipe is from the
Embassy Club.
                      PAULINE

  Mix three glasses of rum with three of
sweetened lemon juice. Add a dash of Worm
wood Bitters and, before shaking, some grated
nutmeg.
                SPANISH TOWN
  Put five glasses of rum into the shaker with a
tablespoonful of brown sugar. Add more ice
than is usual and shake very thoroughly. Serve
with a little grated nutmeg on the top of each
glass.
                      ECLIPSE

  Four glasses of rum, one glass of Chartreuse
and one of sweetened lemon juice. Serve with
a cherry.
              DAIQUIRI COCKTAIL
   This recipe was brought back by the U.S.
fleet from its trip round the world as the best
drink it had found.    Fill the shaker half full of
shaved ice, add the juice of three fresh limes, a
scant teaspoonful of sugar and three glasses
brimming full of Bacardi rum. Shake well.
         WHISKY COCKTAILS

               GRACE'S DELIGHT
  This cocktail must, of course, be thoroughly
shaken immediately before serving. Put into a
jug two glasses of whisky, two and a half
glasses of French Vermouth, and half a glass of
Eaii de Vie de Framboise. Add the juice of half
an orange, a teaspoonful of Eau de Fleurs d
Granger, three juniper berries, a small piece of
cinnamon and a little grated nutmeg. Stir well
with a silver spoon and pour the mixture into a
litre bottle through a very fine strainer. Shake
the bottle and ice for an hour.

                     DUPPY
  For this cocktail,^ put a few cloves in a jug
three quarters full of whisky, add three or four
drops of Orange Bitters, and fill up with any
strongly-flavoured sweet liqueur. Grand Marnier,
Cointreau, or Curacao, then proceed with the
shaker as usual and serve.

                    WHISVER

  Here is an example of an entirely simple cock
tail much in favour with the inhabitants of the
                        23
 ^4                       Drinks—Long and Short
 West Indies. Take a jug which will hold
 exactly the required amount, put in a little over
 one third of whisky and fill it with equal parts
 of French or Italian Vermouth. Pour the mix
 ture into a shaker half full of crushed ice, shake
 well and serve,

                WHISKY COCKTAIL
                    (Very Dry)
  Three glasses of whisky, two of French
Virmouth and half a glass of orange juice. Put
into the shaker with a little grated nutmeg, and
serve with an olive in the glass.

                      BLUES
  Four glasses of whisky, and one of Cxiracao.
Mix with a teaspoonful of prune syrup. You
must, for this cocktail, use more ice, and shake
more thoroughly than is usual.
              LINSTEAD COCKTAIL
  Three glasses of whisky mixed with three
glasses of sweetened pineapple juice. Before
shaking add a dash of Wormwood Bitters, and
when the cocktails are poured out squeeze a
piece of fresh lemon peel over each glass.
                MINT COCKTAIL
  First put two or three sprigs of mint into the
shaker. Rub them round with a spoon and then
pour in three glasses of whisky. Let this stand
Drinks—Long and Short                         ^5
for a few minutes. Add three glasses of sweet
ened lemon juice and ice, and shake very
thoroughly for longer than usual.
                    VELVET

  Three glasses of whisky and two of French
Vermouth. Add one glass of Crhne de Parfait
Amour, a dash of Absinthe and two or three
dashes of Wormwood bitters. Shake very well.
           PLAIN WHISKY COCKTAIL

  Put four glasses of whisky into the shaker
with a teaspoonful of soft sugar and a few drops
of Orange Bitters. Add more ice than usual
and shake for longer, so that some of the ice
melts to make up the required quantity.
                    CHOKER

  Four glasses of whisky, two of Absinthe, and
a dash of Wormwodd bitters. This cocktail
should be shaken very thoroughly and no sugar
should be added.

                 TEA COCKTAIL

  Two glasses and a half of green China tea,
brewed strong but not allowed to stand on the
leaves more than five minutes, one teaspoonful
of syrup or a heaping teaspoonful of castor sugar,
three glasses old Scotch or Irish liqueur whisky.
                                                                • V




       26                         Drinks—Long and Short
                       WHISKY COCKTAIL
                               (Plain)
         Five lumps of sugar dissolved (unless a very
       dry cocktail is desired), one pudding spoonful
       Angostura Bitters, five glasses of whisky. Leave
       a large lump of ice in the shaker until it is frosted,
       then shake and serve.

                     FLYING SCOTCHMAN
         One pudding spoonful of Orange Bitters, one
       teaspoonful of syrup or sugar dissolved, two
       glasses and a half of Italian Vermouth, three
       glasses of Scotch Whisky.         Ice and shake.




■yj:


                                                                      I

                                                                      -1
         MISCELLANEOUS COCKTAILS
                       KIRSGH COCKTAIL
          Three glasses of Kirsch and three of orange
       juice, add, before shaking, a few drops of
       Angostura Bitters and one clove.
                    HATCHETT'S SPECIAL
         Put two glasses of Rye Whisky, two glasses of
       brandy and two of Dubonnet into a shaker, add
       two dashes of Creme de Parfait Amour and two
       dashes of absinthe. Fill up with broken ice and
       shake thoroughly. This cocktail should be
       served with a cherry. The recipe is from
       Hatchett's Bar,
                            NIELKA

         Put three glasses of Vodka into the shaker
       with two glasses of orange juice and one of
       French Vermouth, This is meant to be a very
       dry cocktail, but sugar may be added if desired.

                       ABSINTHE COCKTAIL
                           (One Person)
         One dash of Angostura bitters, two teaspoon-
       fuls of sugar syrup, one glass of Absinthe. Shake
       very well. This recipe is from the Embassy Club.
                                2J




\
' "•           -   "                 ■   - I iiiiTiili f   iinin   III
 28                       Drinks—Long and Short
                    PINK PEARL
   One glass and a half of grapefruit juice, one
 tablespoonful of lemon juice, half a glass of
 Grenadine, two glasses of Calvados, the white of
 one large egg. Ice and shake well. Use shaved
 ice.
                     JACK ROSE

   Two glasses of the juice of fresh limes, or
 one and a half glasses of grapefruit juice and half
 a glass of lemon juice, half a glass of Grenadine,
three glasses of           or Apple Jack. Ice and
shake well.
                 APPLE COCKTAIL

  Two glasses of sweet cider, one glass of gin,
one liqueur glass of brandy, two glasses of
Calvados or Apple Jack.
                   BRANDY SNAP
                    (Pour People)
  Take one glass of brandy,not quite two of dry
sherry, and one of orange juice, add one or two
drops of Angostura Bitters, and put all this in a
cocktail-shaker, fill it with broken ice, shake it
well, and serve at once.
                CHAMPS ELYSEES

  Three glasses of brandy, one glass of Chartreuse
and one and a half glasses of sweetened lemon
juice, put in the shaker with a dash of Angostura
Bitters.
Drinks—Long and Short                         29
                    DOCKER

  Four glasses of brandy, one of Cointreau, and
one glass of Dubonnet. Just before shaking, add
a few drops of Orange Bitters.
               LOIRE COCKTAIL

  Three glasses of brandy,two of Grand Marnier
and one of Maraschino. If this is too strong for
your taste, you may substitute one of the glasses
of brandy for one of orange juice.
                    BAYANA

  Put four glasses of brandy into the shaker
with two of sweetened lemon juice. Add a few
drops of Orange Bitters and two dashes of
Absinthe. Shake thoroughly.
                   CHOrCHO
  Three glasses of brandy mixed with two
glasses of French Vermouth. Add one glass of
Curacao and a good dash of Aksinthe before
shaking.
             CURACAO COCKTAIL
                     (Sweet)
  Two glasses and a half of orange juice, two
glasses of red Curacao, half a glass of brandy,
half a glass of gin. Ice and shake. Rinse the
glasses in Orange Bitters.
                COUP DE FOUDRE
  One full glass of white Centerbe(unsweetened),
three glasses of red Curacao, one glass and a
3®                      Drinks—Long and Short
quarter of gin. ■ Ice and shake well. Squeeze a
piece of orange peel over each glass and put in
glasses small pieces of candied orange peel.
                    LUCIFER
                  (Very Strong)
  Half a glass of white Centerbe (unsweetened),
two glasses of white Curacao^ half a glass of
Cointreau, two glasses of gin. Ice and shake.
Rinse the glasses in Orange Bitters.

             CALVADOS COCKTAIL. I
  Mix two glasses of Calvados with two of
strained orange juice, one of Cointreau and one
of Orange Bitters. Add ice and shake well.

             CALVADOS COCKTAIL. II
  Put three glasses of Calvados into the shaker
with three glasses of sweetened lemon juice.
Shake thoroughly.

                   ALBERTINE
  Two glasses of Kirsch, two of Cointreau and
two of Chartreuse. Just before shaking add a
few drops of Maraschino.

                    NICOLE
  Two glasses of sloe gin, two of Kummel and
two of orange juice. Serve with a cherry in
the glass.
Drinks—Long and Short                        3^
           PLAIN VERMOUTH COCKTAIL
  Put five glasses and a half of French Vermouth
into the shaker with a teaspoonful of Wormwood
Bitters and a teaspoonful of Maraschino. Shake
very thoroughly and serve with a cherry.
                      DEVONIA

  Put four glasses of rather sweet sparkling
cider into the shaker, add two glasses of g^n, a
few drops of Orange Bitters and ice. Shake
lightly.
                      TEA TIME

  Put three glasses of rum into the shaker with
three glasses of carefully strained cold tea.
Add a dash of lime juice and sugar to taste.
Shake lightly.
             CHAMPAGNE COCKTAIL
  Put six glasses of iced champagne into a jug
with a few drops of essence of orange, sugar to
taste and a dash of Orange Bitters. Mix with a
swizzle stick.
                        MOL

  Two glasses of gin, two of sloe gin and two
of Vermouth, add a few drops of Orange Bitters
and sugar to taste.
                      SOOTHER
  Two glasses of French Vermouth, two glasses
of sloe gin and two glasses of Absinthe. Add a
dash of Wormwood Bitters and shake thoroughly.
 32                       Drinks—Long and Short

                      DUNES
   Three glasses of Calvados and three glasses of
 French Vermouth. Add a drop of Orange
 Bitters and a dash of Wormwood Bitters.

                      RAPIDE
   Three glasses of Maraschino, three of Ver
 mouth, a drop of Wormwood Bitters and a dash
 of Absinthe.
                  RATTLESNAKE
  Four glasses of Rye whisky, the whites of
two eggs and a glass of sweetened lemon juice,
then add a few dashes of Absinthe, shake very
thoroughly and pass through a. fine strainer,
                DUNHILL'S SPECIAL
                  (For one Person)
  Two dashes of Curacao, one third dry gin, one
third sherry, one third French Vermouth. Stir
thoroughly and then strain into the glass.
Serve with an olive and then add two dashes of
Absinthe. (From Hatchett's Bar).
                   TRAIN BLEU
  Put one glass of brandy and one of pineapple
syrup into the shaker with ice. Shake well and
then add three glasses of champagne. Shake
just once more and serve immediately.
                     BALM
  Put into a shaker half a glass of strained
orange juice, the same amount of Cointreau and
Drinks—Long and Short                         33

three glasses of sherry, add a dash of Orange
Bitters and two dashes of Pimento Dram.       Fill
with broken ice, shake and serve as usual, but
in glasses in which there is an olive.

                 SHERRY TWIST
   To the strained juice of one orange add two
glasses of whisky, two and a half of sherry and
half a glass of Cointreau. Put this into a shaker
with two cloves and a squeeze of lemon juice,
twist over this a pepper grinder in which there
is some aromatic pepper, and fill the shaker with
broken ice.   Shake and serve as usual.

                SHERRY TWIST. II
  One glass of brandy, one of Vermouth, and
three of sherry. Add to this two thirds of a
glass of Cointreau and one third of lime juice.
Put in the shaker with a piece of cinnamon.
                                  •A'


                    PHILOMEL
  Two and a half glasses of sherry, one of rum,
and three glasses of Dubonnet,and orange juice
in equal proportions. Add a twist of aromatic
pepper before shaking.
              PLAIN SHERRY COCKTAIL
   Put six glasses of sherry into the shaker with
 a good dash of Wormwood Bitters and a few
 drops of Maraschino. Shake very thoroughly.




                                                     ■"•I'!.:;
34                     Drinks—Long and Short
                     ELECTRA
  Five glasses of sherry and one of French
Vermouth. Add a good dash of Absinthe and a
dash of Wormwood Bitters.

                     SHIP
  Three glasses of sherry, one of whisky, one
of rum and one of prune syrup. Add a dash of
Orange Bjtters and a little sugar or not, accord
ing to taste,
               PEACH COCKTAIL
  Cut up a ripe peach, soak in one glass of
brandy for two hours, add a glass of liquor
from brandied peaches and one teaspoonful of
Peach Bitters. Add four glasses of dry white
wine, or champagne. Chill well in ice, but do
not add ice to the cocktail.   Stir well with a
swizzle stick.

             PINEAPPLE COCKTAIL
  One glass of fresh pineapple juice. Take the
pulp from which the juice has been pressed and
soak in two glasses of dry white wine for a
couple of hours. Add the pineapple juice and a
small squeeze of lemon juice. Pour in three
glasses of sherry. Ice well by putting the
shaker in ice, not ice in the shaker. Shake and
serve with a small piece of pineapple in each
glass. This is a very light cocktail.
Drinks—Long and Short                         35
               COFFEE COCKTAIL
  Two glasses and a half of Santa Cruz or
Bacardi rum, three of strong black Moka coffee.
Mix while the coffee is hot, chill on ice, and
shake with shaved ice.

                CLUB COCKTAIL
  Fill the shaker half full of shaved ice.   Pour
in four glasses of liqueur brandy, half a glass
of Maraschino, half a glass of pineapple syrup,
one teaspoonful of Orange Bitters. Mix with a
spoon, stirring well. Pour out and dress the
glasses with strawberries and twisted pieces of
lemon peel. Dash with champagne.
              ABSINTHE COCKTAIL

  Fill the shaker three quarters full of shaved
ice. Add four glasses of Absinthe, one glass
of water, poured in slowly, one teaspoonful of
syrup, and one of Angostura Bitters. Stir well
and serve.                       ^
             CHAMPAGNE COCKTAIL
  One good piece of thin lemon peel; one glass
liqueur brandy; three dashes of Angostura
Bitters; five glasses of iced champagne. Stir
with spoon and serve.
                BLACKTHORNE
  One tablespoonful of syrup, two teaspoonfuls
of lemon juice, one puddingspoonful of Orange
Bitters two dashes Angostura Bitters. Fill the
36                      Drinks—Long and Short
shaker half full of shaved ice and pour in two
glasses and a half of Noilly Prat Vermouth, and
two glasses of sloe gin. Shake and serve.

                      DIXIE

  Four lumps of sugar dissolved, one teaspoon-
ful Angostura Bitters, one of lemon juice, four
glasses of whisky, one teaspbonful of Curacao,
two teaspoonfuls of Creme de Menthe. Ice and
shake well.
              SUNSET COCKTAIL
  Put in a large glass a good strip of thinly
pared orange or tangerine peel (the latter is
better), a teaspoonful of peach jam, two small
apricots or one large one cut into small pieces
and the stone or stones crushed. Pour over
this one full glass of brandy and a teaspoonful of
Ktrsch. Let soak for two hours. Pour all into
the shaker. Add one glass and a half of white
wine, one glass and a half of gin, and one glass
of Noilly Prat Vermouth. Ice and shake.
                 BLACK MAMMY
  To the juice of one grapefruit and one lemon
add a strip of thin orange peel and a strip of
thin lemon peel, one heaping teaspoonful of
sugar, two cloves, three glasses of Santa Cruz
rum and one glass of brandy. Ice well and
shake.
                 COCKTAILS
                (NON-ALCOHOLIC)


             STRAWBERRY COCKTAIL

  Pass half a pound of strawberries through a
fine sieve and put the juice in a shaker, with the
juice of an orange and a dash of whisky or
brandy. Add some pieces of ice, shake well,
and serve.
                "SOFT"COCKTAIL
                  (For four People)
  Here is a cocktail for our American friends,
who would, I am sure, quite appreciate it 1 As
a matter of fact it is very good, buf; more suitable,
perhaps, for the children at one of their parties.
  Put four glasses of orange juice into a shaker,
add a few drops of bitters with a pinch of mixed
spices. Add ice, shake well, and serve with a
Maraschino cherry in each glass.

                LEMON COCKTAIL
  Put five glasses of sweetened lemon juice into
the shaker with a teaspoonful of Angostura
Bitters. Add ice and shake very hard.
                         37
6^.,.   t I ^ii<imirrti"'iiiiii   ii   i
         LONG DRINKS

                    JULEPS
                    RUM JULEP

   Dissolve three tablespoonsful of soft sugar in
a little water and add a few sprigs of mint. Let
this soak until the flavour of the mint is extracted,
and then strain this juice into a tumbler. Add a
brandy glass of rum, one or two cherries, a slice
of tangerine and any other small fruits that are
in season. Fill up the glass with finely crushed
ice and serve with straws.

                  BRANDY JULEP

  Fill the glasses or jug with finely cracked or
shaved ice. For each person allow one port
glass of Cognac. Bruise severaf sprigs of mint
with half a teaspoonful of sugar for each person,
and strain into the glass or jug. Add a dash of
rum for each glass, dress with fruit and a few
sprigs of mint which have been moistened and
dipped in sugar. Serve with straws.
                 PINEAPPLE JULEP
                  (For eight persons)
  Use a glass bowl and fill it one quarter full of
shaved ice.    Add juice of four oranges, two
                          39
 4°                      Drinks—Long and Short
 of raspberry syrup, two of Maraschino, three of
 gin, two quart bottles of sparkling Moselle, one
large pineapple, or two small ones, torn with
a silver fork into shreds. Stir and dress with
fruit.

                   MINT JULEP
   One teaspoonful of crushed mint tips and half
a teaspoonful of powdered sugar for each glass.
Crush the mint and sugar together in a basin or
jug. Fill the glasses or other receptacle with
finely cracked or shaved ice. Put in a port glass
of rye or Bourbon whisky (Irish whisky may be
substituted) for each person. Stick sprigs of
mint round the tops of the glasses or jug, and
lay on a thin slice of lemon and a strawberry
for each person ; let stand until frosted. Serve
with straws.

         ANOTHER RECIPE FOR MINT JULEP
  Dissolve a tablespoonful of sugar in twice that
quantity of water, add four sprigs of mint and let
them soak until you have extracted all the flavour.
Strain this juice into a large and wide-topped
glass, add half a tumblerful of whisky, a dash of
rum or gin, and fill up with crjushed ice. You
may decorate the top with a few cherries and one
or two sprigs of fresh mint, or, indeed, with any
fruit such as pineapple, tangerine and the like.
Serve the drink with two straws.
n


    Drinks—Long and Short                             4^
                   CHAMPAGNE JULEP
      Fill tall glasses one-third full of shaved ice, add
    for each person one lump of sugar or a teaspoon-
    ful, and two sprigs of mint. Fill up the glasses
    with champagne, dash with brandy and dress
    with fruit. Serve with straws.
-r—'   ■,   •   Iiliiii i i
            GOLD PUNCHES
                                             \

                  RUM PUNCH
                  (Four People)
  This is a popular West Indian "long drink,"
and adapts itself very well to the buffet at a
London dance. Put into a glass jug four"tots"
of rum and, if you can get them, the juice of four
limes (if not, use lemons), add sufficient water,
sweeten to taste, and serve very cold.
  The recipe corresponds to that of the famous
Jamaica"Planters' Punch," the exact formula for
which is as follows
         "One of sour (lime juice),
           Two of sweet (sugar).
           Three of strong (rum).
           And four of weak (water)."
                 LONDON PUNCH
  Put a tumblerful of gin into a punch bowl with
a drop of Wormwood Bitters and an orange.
Stick with cloves, add sugar to taste and pour in
a large jug of boiling water.
                 WHISKY PUNCH

  Allow a brandy glass of whisky for each person
and put it into a jug or bowl. Add one orange
                        43
 ^^4                      Drinks—Long and Short
 cut in slices,a few cloves, and for each person two
 drops of Eau de Fleurs dOranger. Sweeten to
 taste, and put in some ice and half a tumbler of
 cold water per head.

                FISH CLUB PUNCH
                 (For eight Persons)
   Use a bowl. One-third of a pint of lemon
juice, three quarters ofa pound ofsugar dissolved
in water, half a pint of Cognac, one quarter of a
pint of peach brandy, one quarter of a pint of
Jamaica rum, two pints and a half of iced water.
Add a piece of ice. Mix and serve.

               CHAMPAGNE PUNCH
                  (Four People)
  Use a glass jug or bowl. One quart of cham
pagne, a quarter of a pound of sugar, one sliced
orange, the juice of one lemon, three or four
slices of pineapple, and one cupful of crushed
strawberries or raspberries. Ice well. Garnish
with fruit.
               DEVIL'S CUP PUNdH
  One liqueur glass each of green and yellow
Chartreuse, one of Benedictine and two of brandy.
Two quarts of iced champagne. Stir and serve.
                     CUPS

                   CLARET CUP

  Put a few sticks of barley sugar into a large
jug with a few slices of orange and lemon, some
cherries, a sprig of mint and some cucumber peel.
Pour over this a tumblerful of brandy and half
that amount of any sweet liqueur, such as Coin
treau, Curacao or Grand Marnier Let this stand,
covered, for about six hours. Pour in two
bottles of claret and stand the jug on ice until you
are ready for the cup. Then splash in a syphon
of soda water. You should taste the cup before
adding the soda water and add, if necessary,
some soft sugar.
            CLARET CUP AUX CERISES
               (An Austrian Reoeipe)
   Crush a pound of red or black cherries, cover
with a quarter bottle of rum and let stand several
hours in a cool place. Add two or three bottles
of claret, a sliced orange, thin lemon peel and a
bunch of borage. Ice well and add soda water.
                   SAUTERNE CUP
   Put in a large bowl or jug: One liqueur glass
 of yellow Chartreuse, one of brandy and one of
                         45
 4^                       Drinks—Long and Short
 Ktrsch, two quart bottles of Sauteme. Add the
 peel of half a lemon in a strip pared thin,a sliced
 orange, cherries, grapes, strawberries and rasp
 berries, small pieces of pineapple(any or all these
 fruits), and a bunch of borage. Ice well. Just
 before serving put in a strip of cucumber peel,
 and add soda water.

                    HOCK CUP
                  (For Six Persons)
  Use a large glass jug. Fill it one quarter full
of cracked ice. Add six or eight teaspoonfuls
of sugar, one lemon, sliced, one sliced orange,
four slices of pineapple, one liqueur glass of
brandy, one of Apricot brandy, one of Curacao,
one quart of Hock, and one pint of soda water.
Mix and add a piece of cucumber rind. Decorate
with small fruits and a few pieces of grapefruit.
                  MOSELLE CUP
  Same as above, substituting Moselle for Hock.
                  MARCEL'S CUP
  Put one bottle of vin rose into a jug with sugar
to taste, add a port glass of brandy, a port glass
of Benedictine, one slice of orange, one slice of
lemon, a sprig of mint and some cucumber peel.
Let the jug stand on ice for an hour, then strain
the Cup into another jug and add,just before
serving, about halfa syphon ofsoda-water. This
will make sufficient Cup for six or eight people.
It depends on the people!
Drinks—Long and Short                           47

              CHAMPAGNE CUP. I
  Put a small teacupful of sugar in a jug with a
few slices of orange, lemon and pineapple, also a
few cherries. Add a port glass of brandy and
let this stand on ice for an hour.   Stir well, and
pour in two pints of champagne (previously
iced). Stir again with a swizzle stick.

              CHAMPAGNE CUP. II
  One cupful of pieces of pineapple, two sliced
oranges, one sliced lemon, half a pint of Curacao,
one gill of Chartreuse, one gill of Apricot brandy,
half a pint of brandy, half a pint of Sauterne.
Stir well, and let stand over night. When ready
to use, add plenty of ice, one pint of soda water,
and one quart and a half of champagne. Garnish
with small fruits.

                     CIDER CUP

  One hesitates to give a recipe^ for this well-
known cup, but there are just a few changes in
the method of preparation which make rather a
difference. Put into a glass jug a few pieces of
barley sugar, a slice of lemon, three slices of
orange,some mint, cucumber rind, and six cloves.
Pour over this a pint of still cider, and let this
stand on ice for one hour before serving. Then
add a pint of sparkling cider, a bottle of dry
ginger ale, both of which should have been on
ice previously.
              48                        Drinks—Long and Short
                                 JAMAICA CUP
                 Take half a dozen sticks of barley sugar and
              put them in a large jug with an orange cut in
              slices, a few slices of pineapple, the peel of a
              cucumber, and (if you can get them) a teacupful
              of Jamaica Pimento berries.      Pour over a
              tumbler and a half of whisky, cover the jug and
              let it stand on ice for six hours.   Then strain the
              cup into a glass jug and "fizz" it with three
              bottles of strong dry ginger ale instead of the
              usual soda water.




      *



■r-'. ^   A
             HOT PUNCHES

                CANNON PUNCH
   Put a quart of still dry cider into a saucepan
with three oranges stuck with cloves, and bring
it to the boil. Sweeten to taste with lump sugar
and let the cider boil for a few minutes.      Then
add a tumblerful of whisky and serve very hot
in a punch bowl.
               ST. JACUT PUNCH
   Put half a dozen baked apples, fresh from the
oven, into a punch bowl with six tablespoonfuls
of sugar. Pour in a little boiling water and
stir well. Add six brandy glasses of Calvados
and then pour in sufficient boiling water to
make a drink for twelve people. *
                  RUM PUNCH
               (Eight or ten Persons)
  One pint of Jamaica 6r Santa Cruz rum, half a
pint of brandy, and one wineglass of Cointreau,
the peel of one lemon and one orange pared in a
thin long strip. Add one sliced orange, one
sliced lemon, sugar to taste.           Put these.in
gredients in a bowl and add three pints of
boiling water. Stir well and serve.
                        49                     E
50                          Drinks—Long and Short
                 HOT TEA PUNCH
  One pint of brandy and one pint of rum, two
sliced oranges, one sliced lemon, three pints of
hot tea, freshly brewed, sugar to taste. Mull
with a poker.
                     GIN TODDY
  Put a"nice drop of gin" into a tumbler with
a slice of lemon, sugar to taste and a little cinna
mon. Add very hot water and stir well.

                 HONEYSUCKLE
  Dissolve two teaspoonfuls of honey in a
tumbler with boiling water. Add a slice of
lemon, some rum (as much or as little as you
like) and fill up the glass with hot water. Stir
thoroughly.




                      •f.



                 I
            MISCELLANEOUS

                 ORANGEADE. I

  Mix the juice of six oranges with a half pint
of water, sweeten with sugar and put it in a jug
with a half-tumbler of whisky. You may add,
if you wish, two liqueur glasses of Benedictine or
Grand Marnier. Let the jug stand on ice for an
hour and, before serving, splash in sufficient
soda water.
                 ORANGEADE. II

  Made in the same way as the preceding recipe,
but substitute rum for whisky. Instead of
adding a liqueur, put in two or thrpe teaspoonfuls
of Essence of Orange.

                   SHERRY CUP
                   (Four People)
  Put the following ingredients into a glass jug.
Two or three sticks of barley sugar, some mint,
cucumber rind, a slice of lemon, two or three of
orange, and a few preserved cherries. Pour in
a glass of brandy, and let it soak for three hours,
keeping the jug covered. Then add three glasses
                        SI




                                               iiM   ir   "If
5^                       Drinks—Long and Short
of very dry sherry, and let it stand for one hour
more, after which remove the mint and cucumber
rind. Just before serving add some ordinary
sugar if necessary,and splash in sufficient water.

                 BLACK VELVET
  An excellent accompaniment to an oyster
supper. One pint of stout to one quart of iced
champagne. This drink is also an admirable
pick-me-up, to be taken at about eleven in the
morning.
                   KING'S PEG
  A tall glass of champagne laced with a liqueur
glass of brandy.
                 JOHN COLLINS
  For each person put one "tot"of gin into a
tumbler with two heaped teaspoonfuls of castor
sugar and the strained juice of half a lime (or
lemon). Stir well, and add a few small lumps
of ice. Stir again, and fill up the glass with
soda water.
                   THREESOME
  For each person put one "tot" of gin into a
tumbler with the strained juice of half an orange,
half a brandy glass of Orange Bitters, and sugar
to taste. Add ice, and fill the glass with plain
cold Water.
                  "COLD TEA"
  First make some tea and before it has time to
become bitter, pour it through a strainer, into a
Drinks—Long and Short                           53

jug and let it get quite cold. Then put into a
tumbler (one for each person) one teaspoonful
of prune syrup, one teaspoonful of Cuvacao, and
a tablespoonful of rum. Add sugar to taste, a
piece of ice, and fill each glass with the tea.
                     SWIZZLE

  Strange though it may seem, or perhaps the
name is ironically appropriate, this is the
principal and favourite drink of the Virgin
Islands.
  Take a deep glass jug and set it on the floor.
Pour in one pint of Santa Cruz rum or any dark,
heavy rum. Take six limes and squeeze the
juice from them into the rum. Put in six pieces
of ice the size of an egg. Put in four lumps or
spoonfuls of sugar. Add a few sprigs of green
mint. Take your swizzle stick and, holding the
jug firmly between the feet, roll the swizzle stick
between your hands, stirring up the contents of
 the jug until it froths anci becomes very cold,
 frosted on the outside of the glass.        In the
 Tropics this occurs quickly, and the real swizzle
 maker will stick small blossoms, such as rose
 petals, on the outside of the jug. These will
 also become frosted, giving a pretty picture to
 the eye as the delicious drink is served.
   N.B.—An excellent substitute for fresh lime
 juice is grapefruit and lemon juice mixed, in the
 proportion of one lemon to one grapefruit.
 54                         Drinks—Long and Short
                    SLOE GIN FIZZ
   For each person take one port glass of sloe
 gin, the juice of half a lime or small lemon, sugar
 to taste, stir in well and add syphon soda.
                     GIN RICKEY
    To each tall glass a port glass of gin, the juice
 of a fresh lime or half a lemon. Fill the glasses
 with shaved ice, put in sugar to taste, a strip of
 thinly, pared lemon or lime peel, and fill up with
 fresh or soda water.

                    BRANDY SOUR
  For each person put into a shaker three
quarters of a tall glassful of shaved ice, one
teaspoonful of sugar, the juice of half a lime or
a quarter of a large lemon, squeezed; one port
glass of brandy. Shake and pour into glasses.
Dress with fruit.    This can also be mixed with
a swizzle stick in a jug.
               MORNING GLORY FIZZ
  For each person put into the shaker: One
heaping teaspoonful of sugar, the juice of one
lemon, two dashes of Absinthe mixed in a table-
spoonful of water, white of one egg, one port
glass of whisky or gin. Ice well. Shake and
pour into glasses. Fill up with soda water.
                 BRANDY PUNCH
  Put one brandy glass of the spirit per person
into a large jug, add a slice of lemon, a few slices
Drinks—Long and Short                           55
of orange and one or two cherries. Sweeten to
taste, stir well, and let it rest for half an hour.
Then half fill the jug with chipped ice and pour
over it a glass of Kifsch. Add sufficient water
to make the required number of drinks, stir
vigorously and pour into tumblers through a
strainer.




                                       '■             . •   'I



                           '   ■   t                        'tif




                                                      •A ' •!,
-iW r

    ■   W-
              NON-ALCOHOLIC

                    ICED TEA

                (Six or eight Persons)
  Very few people know how to make iced tea.
The following is the best recipe out of several
the authors have tried.
  Fill a large glass jug with small pieces of ice.
Put on top of the ice a lemon cut into slices (not
the ends), and six heaping spoonfuls of castor or
granulated sugar. Pour over a quart of freshly
made, very hot tea. The boiling water must not
be allowed to stand more than three minutes on
the tea. Allow for each person a heaping tea-
spoonful of China or the best Ceylon tea leaves.
If desired, the iced tea can be made in individual
tall glasses. In this case fill each glass with
pieces of ice, put on top a thitkish slice of lemon
and a puddingspoonful of sugar before pouring
in the tea.
               GRANITA DI GAFFE
                   (Iced Coffee)
  Allow a breakfast cup of good strong coffee to
each person. Let it cool, sweeten to taste and
shake well with finely chipped or shaved ice.
Put a spoonful of whipped cream on the top of
each glass. Serve before the ice has melted.
                          57
 5^                       Drinks—Long and Short
                  LEMON SQUASH
                    (Six Persons)
  The squeezed juice of one orange and four
lemons, sweetened to taste. Add ice, shaved or
in pieces, and three pints of plain water or
syphon soda.
                   GINGER POP
   It is to be hoped that the recipe for such a
simple and old-fashioned drink as ginger pop
will be useful.
  It is certainly inexpensive, and would not look
in the least commonplace in the sophisticated
surroundings of a modern party.
  Take two ounces of well-bruised ginger, two
ounces of cream of tartar, and two pounds of soft
white sugar. Put these ingredients into an
earthenware vessel, pour over them two gallons
of boiling water; allow this to get cold, and add
two tablespoonfuls of yeast, then let the whole
thing stand for twenty-four hours, after which
skim it, and keep it for three days in a cool place
before bottling. See that your corks are sound,
and tie them down carefully.
  The quantities given above will provide a full
glass each for at least thirty people.

                  LEMON WATER
  Take the whites of four eggs and beat them to
a very stiff froth, put this into a jug with the
juice of three lemons, add three tumblerfuls of
Drinks—Long and Short                        59

cold water and sufficient sugar, stirring well.
Pour this through a very fine strainer into four
tumblers half-filled with crushed ice. There
should be no visible trace of the egg whites.
This drink is not only delicious, but very bene
ficial in cases of slight fever.
                COCOANUT PUNCH
  Grate the flesh of a fresh cocoanut into a jug
and add the juice of two lemons and one orange,
sugar and a pinch of mixed spices (the kind used
for cakes being the best). Add four tumblers of
cold water and let it stand for one hour on ice,
then strain the punch into a glass jug and keep
it on ice until you are ready to drink it.
                      ICED TEA
  This is the way in which tea is more often
served in some tropical places, and it is very
refreshing. The important thing is that the tea
should be freshly made and hot allowed to get
cold.   Half fill a tumbler for each person with
crushed ice, on the top of which place one slice
of lemon. Have the tea made in the ordinary
way and pour it over each tumbler, adding sugar
or not, according to taste. The reason for the
tea being hot when poured out is that if allowed
to get cold, in conjunction with the lemon, it
tastes very bitter.
                                             •C''(
                                           V-
                                           >.< -




••-   If -•■^ni 'iifi'i 'liiirii i i'V ■
        STILL-ROOM RECIPES
              RECIPE FOR MILK PUNCH
                   (Twenty bottles)

  As prepared in the Secunderabad Club. (Es
pecially recommended).
  Take four dozen fresh limes, two ounces of
cinnamon and two ounces of nutmeg (powder),
six pounds of sugar, six pints of milk, two
bottles of brandy and twelve of rum, six pints
boiled water. Take off the peel from the
limes and keep separate the juice. Wet the
peel in two bottles of rum in a^ bowl for twenty-
four hours.
  After twenty-four hours take a big bowl and
put the lemon peel and rum into it, also two
bottles of brandy, ten bottles of rum and the
cinnamon, nutmeg and sugar. Shake or stir
until the sugar is dissolved. Then add the six
pints of boiled milk. This will curdle the fluid
in the bowl. Add six pints of boiled water to
the mixture. Keep in the same bowl for twenty-
four hours, covered with a cloth. Then strain it
                        6i
^2                         Drinks—Long and Short
in a flannel bag and pour into bottles. The fluid
should be quite clear.
  To the above recipe, the contributor, well
aware of the excellent quality of the brew, ap
pends this appeal:—
     Ifpossible keep the bottles at least a fortnight
before drinking."

               RASPBERRY VINEGAR
                    (Non-alcoholic)

  Put two quarts offresh raspberries into a stone
jar and pour over them one quart of good wine
or cider vinegar. Cover and stand in a cool, dry
place for two days, then strain off" the liquid
without crushing the fruit, pour it over a quart
of fresh fruit and stand as before.   Do this once
again and the last time strain through a calico or
flannel bag. Now add one pound of sugar to
every pint of the liquid. Boil slowly for five
minutes, skim, let stand fifteen minutes, bottle
and seal.
  Strawberry, cherry and blackberry vinegar are
made in the same manner,except that the cherries
should be pricked or stoned.
  When drinking, fill a glass three-quarters full
of shaved ice, or put in a good piece of ice, add
a wineglassful of the vinegar and fill up with
syphon soda or water.
Drinks—Long and Short                           63
                BRANDY PEACHES
  Take large yellow or white freestone peaches,
not too ripe. Scald them with boiling water,
cover and let stand until the water is cold.
Repeat this scalding then take out the peaches,
lay them on a soft cloth, cover them over with
another cloth and let them remain until perfectly
dry. Now put them in stone jars or large glass
bottles, and cover with brandy. Tie paper over
the tops and let them remain this way one week.
Then make a syrup, allowing one pound of
granulated sugar and half-a-pint of water to each
pound of peaches. Boil and skim the S3'rup,
then put in the peaches and simmer until tender.
Then take the peaches out and put them in glass
bottles. Stand the syrup aside to cool. When
cool, mix equal quantities of this syrup and the
brandy in which you had the peaches. Pour
this over the peaches and seal. Any brandy that
is left, or any brandy and syrup,^ should be bottled
and kept for use in cocktails or cup. It is also
excellent for pudding sauces.

              MAY BLOSSOM BRANDY
  Fill bottles three quarters full offreshly picked
mayblossom—not stems or leaves. Fill up with
brandy, cork and seal. Store for a month or six
weeks, then strain off" the brandy, re-bottle and
seal. This is an excellent substitute for peach
brandy and of great use in cocktails or cup.




                                                       ' - :I.V
64                           Drinks—Long and Short
             CILIEGE SOTTO SPIERITO
                  (Cerises a I'eau-de-vie)
   The cherries should be ripe, firm and well-
flavoured. Morellos are particularly good, but
anyjuicy, well-flavoured cherry will do. Cut the
stems to within an inch of the fruit.        Pack them
without squeezing, stem upwards into glass
bottles, and put amongst the cherries to each
quart bottle, four whole cloves, three bitter
almonds blanched,a bay leaf, and a strip of lemon
peel cut so thin that no white appears. Sift a
cupful of castor sugar into each bottle, fill up with
pure spirits of wine, cork and seal. The bottles
should be kept for two years before using. The
longer they are kept the better, up to, say, seven
or eight years.
                      SLOE GIN
  Take fine ripe sloes after the first frost. Prick
each in four or five places and fill the bottles
about three quarters full. Put in a strip of thinly
pared lemon peel, three or four cloves and two
blanched bitter almonds to each bottle. Shake
in a cupful of crushed candy sugar and fill up
with Plymouth gin. Two bottles of gin should
fill ,three of the sloe bottles.        Cork and seal.
Shake the bottles by turning upside down daily
for six months.      At the end of a year strain
off the liquor, bottle and seal. Sloe gin is im
proved by keeping for a year or two before
drinking.




                                                          .,1



                                                    i-l
Drinks—Long and Short                             65
                       NOCINO
                  (A Walnut Cordial)
  Take young walnuts tender enough to be
pierced through with a pin. About the end of
June is usually the right time. Fill quart bottles
with them (the two quart size is better), and add
to each quart bottle two bitter almonds blanched,
a strip of thin lemon peel, three whole cloves,
half an ounce of ratafia, an even teaspoonful of
mace, one liqueur glass of yellow Chartreuse, and
a teacupful of crushed candy sugar. Fill up with
pure spirit.     Shake every other day for six
months. Then strain off the liquor, bottle and
seal.    This cordial can be drunk at the end of two
years, but it is best to keep it five years before
using.
                    PRUNE SYRUP

  Put one pound of prunes (which have been
soaked in cold water for twenty-four hours) into
a saucepan with two heaped tpspoonfuls of
brown sugar, a piece of vanilla, and enough
cold water to cover them.        Boil until half the
liquid has disappeared, then add a tumblerful of
claret and simmer until the prunes are cooked.
You may add, about ten minutes before re
moving them, a port glass of brandy to the
prunes.
  Strain the contents of the saucepan and then
pass the juice through a muslin. When it is cool,
put it in a bottle and cork it tightly. This syrup
                                              F
66                       Drinks—Long and Short

will keep for two to three weeks, The prunes.
of course, are delicious to eat.

               WORMWOOD BITTERS

  Put three to four sprigs of wormwood into
a pitcher, and pour over them a bottle of gin.
Cover the pitcher and let it stand for three weeks,
after which time the bitters are ready to be
bottled, the wormwood having been removed.
This recipe is from Bermuda, whose inhabitants,
we are told, used these bitters almost exclusively.

     ESSENCE OF ORANGE AND OF LEMON
  The rind of oranges peeled off very thin, to be
put in glass jar with alcohol at 90 or 95 degrees,
enough to cover the skins, but no more. Leave
it at least a month, shaking occasionally, then
remove the pieces of rind. It makes a pure
essence of orange, extremely scented and
strong. A teaspoonful would be enough to
flavour a sweet, and a few drops in a glass of
water with a lump of sugar makes a very refresh
ing summer drink, at a time when oranges are at
their worst.
  Lemon rind to be treated in the same way.
  We are indebted for this recipe to Mr. X.
Marcel Boulestin, author of "Simple French
Cooking for English Homes." (Heinemann,
Publishers).
Drinks—Long and Short                           67

                SYRUP OF LEMON
  Squeeze the juice of six lemons and pass it
through a fine muslin, and add to it as much
sugar as it will dissolve naturally in twelve hours.
Put the syrup in bottles tightly corked, when it
will keep for several months.




                                     \


                                                       I,i



                                                       ■>.
n
               11
•W. if--- -f
       w




r: ^
  SCOMPWV
S3            86B




                  /:'
     'i       y
', / V. Tili


  ' , «•■• ■/(■•
          ■   f'/r
               TWO BOOKS BY

X. Marcel Boulestin
  SIMPLE FRENCH COOKING
       FOPi ENGLISH HOMES
Frontispiece by J. E. LABOUREUE.                  .4II1 im
               pression. 5s. net
M. Boulestin proves conclusively that French cooking is
not only more varied and attractive than English, but
that it is positively cheaper and less wasteful. His book
contains numerous traditional peasant dishes that have
never been written of before.      He has also much in
valuable general advice to give both about food and drink.
He makes cooking into a fine and yet a simple art, and
every one of his delicious recipes is within reach of the
smallest household.



        A SECOND HELPING
Frontispiece by J. E. LABOUREUR. Jttsl pub
                      lished.   6s. net
M. Boulestin has not this time restricted himself to France,
but has gone all over the world for his recipes. There
are soups from the Netherlands, Risotto Milanese,Cornish
fries, fritters and curries from Malta, sauces from
Martinique and Mauritius,"hot stuff" from Jamaica, and
scores more unfamiliar and unforgettable delicacies from
here, there, and everywhere.
    This is more than a cookery book, it is an anthology
of delights, and, what is more, of delights which are
practicable for "people who have a good cook, for those
who only have a plain one, and for those who have not
got one at all."


WILLIAM            HEINEMANN                LIMITED
