                                  BOOK or
                                  PUNCHES
                                        'VNO

                                   COCKTAILS

                                     HOW to mix
                                     them and
                                     other rare
                                     exquisitd'
                                     and delicate

                             ij mdudinga
                                 /' chapter of
                                   ^ celebrities,
                                /^•yslheir favorite




formerly ofDelmonicos.
      M.'so              ^
ELF PUBUSHINOife^O. NEWYORKXir^
y?-..
        / /
  6i
       CHEERIO!"
  A BOOK OF PUNCHES AND
  COCKTAILS. HOW TO MIX
  THEM, AND OTHER RARE,
  EXQUISITE AND DELICATE
  DRINKS. IN CL UD IN G A
  CHAPTER OF CELEBRITIES,
  THEIR FAVORITE DRINKS.

          By CHARLES
       Formerly of Delmonicos




ELFPUBLISHING COMPANY
   1674   Broadway, N. Y. C.
               19 2 8
 ! l

       Copyright 1928
        by
ELF PUBLISHING CO.
       New York City
    t




J
              THE EIGHT IMMORTAL DRINKERS

                            By Tou-Fou (715-774)

           Ho-Tchi-Tchang, always on horseback, looked like
        a mon rowing a beat.        One evening, when he was
        drunker than usual, he fell from his herse into a deep
        pit, and it is my belief that he is sleepîng there yet.
            Yu-Yang always emplies three bailles before going
        lo work. If he meels a grain cari he gives up ail ihought
        of business, follows along afler il, and chais wilh Ihe
        coolie aboul Ihe fermenlalion of rice.
            The minisler, Li-Ti-Chy, could swallow a hundred
        rivers. He cheerfully spends ten million tsein, and dé
        clarés lhal he would willingly cul off Ihe heads of ail
        merchanls who sell dubious wine.

           When Tsoung-Tchi savors a baille only Ihe whites
        of his eyes can be seen. Suddenly, ihereis a greal noise!
        And there on Ihe ground, like an uprooled tree, lies
        Tsoung-Tchi.
           The solemn Sou-Tsin never drinks before ihe slalue
        of Buddha. But once oulside ihe Monastery, if he ever
        begins lo drink, he musl be carried back there on the
        shoulders of some charitable passerby.
           Under ihe influence of a single measure of wine
        Li-Tai-Po is capable of wriling three hundred verses.
        One day he zvas sleeping in Ihe lavern of Tchang-nan
        when he received an order from Ihe Emperor lo come
                                     3
ta ihe palace.   "Say to the Emperor," answered he,
"that I am talking with the gods."
   When Tchang-Hio had emptied three cups he could
handle the hrushes with an inconceivable skill.    At that
moment, if ail the kings of the earth were to enter his
room, he would not budge.
   Five big measures of wine carried the spirit of Tsaio-
Soui to its greatest heights, and then the éloquence of
our friend threw his guests into bewilderment.
   Although I sometimes pledge them a draught I do
not at ail belong among these illustrious men, I who
am ynore often made drunk by a ray from the moon.
       —Translated from the Chinese by Franz Toussaint.
                     CONTENTS

Chapter                                                  Pttge
       Introductory Note                                    7
I.     Morning Cocktails, Known as "Pickups" or
              "Bracers"                                     9

II.    Before and After Dinner Drinks                      12

III.   Midniglît and Before-Bed Drinks                     15
IV.    "Tapering Ofï" Cocktails                            1?8
V.     Ladies Cocktails and Other Delicacies               21

VI.    Tempérance Drinks                                   24
VII.   Rare and Fancy Drinks                               27
VIII. Fancy Wine Drinks                                    31
IX.       Punches and Party Drinks             .-          34
X.        Hot Drinks for the Fevered, Chilled and
              Cold                                  ;..... 38
XI.       Celebrities Favorite Drinks                      41

XII.      Miscellaneous Drinks for Anywhere and Any-
              time                                         44

          Index                                            48
                           '




         ,.V:




V'
,    :           • • • -       .        t   I




                                   ••




                •''.^''••"'-•^•^•••f-f'Y"'lWri^l'Ar1Vr   rii
                           ••p   I   IPfc   I




    /•
/

                     INTRODUGTORY NOTE

            This book bas been written as much for the
         ordinary gentleman, of good taste, as for the con-
         noiseur or the epicure or the gourmet of drink.          It
         is written, not with the crude and rough hand of any
         careless bartender, but with the fastidious and déli
         cate hand of one who has served drinks to Princes,
         Magnates and Senators of many wealthy nations.
            When that old vintner, Noah, first squeezed the
         prenions grape into the cup, and throwing back bis
         head, felt the vigorous wine-drops trickling deli-
         ciously down bis parehed throat, a new art was bom,
         fostered and loved by Kings and Rajahs, flourishing
         in the courts of Emperors and Khans. And even
         today, if you observe in any street of any city, a man,
         more imaginative, more bold, more firm than bis
         fellow men, you may dépend upon it, he is descended
         direct from old Noah.
            Today, that Art of creating exquisite drinks to
         match exquisite moods is gasping on its death-bed,
         and the dull ogre, Puritanism, supplanting the Skele-
         ton, sits gloating by the bed-side, waiting eagerly to
         hear the last death-rattle.
            If this volume succeeds in preserving, even a
         little while longer, that ancient and much beloved
         Art, the writer will be happy.




                                                            )«>
          n



1 „   ,
                    CHAPTER I.




  MORNING DRINKS KNOWN AS "PICKUPS"
                  OR "BRACERS"

  When You Stagger Dut of Bed, Groggy, Grouchy
              and Cross-Tempered

                 Charleston Bracer

   Place in shaker, one part brandy, one part Port wine,
one raw egg, one-half teaspoonful of powdered sugar or
plain syrup. Add sufficient cracked ice, shake thor-
oughly in order to break egg and strain into serving
glass.

                     Brandy Sour

    Mix in a small bar glass a large teaspoonful of
powdered sugar dissolved in a little seltzer water, the
juice of half a lemon, and a dash of Curacoa. Pour in
a wine-glass of brandy. Fill the glass with shaved ice.
Shake and strain into a claret glass. Ornament with
orange and berries in season.

                       Gin Sour

   Mix in a small bar glass a large teaspoonful of
powdered white sugar dissolved in a little seltzer water,
the juice of half a lemon, and a dash of bitters. Pour
in a wine-glass of gin. Fill the glass with shaved ice.
                           9
                                                              \
10          "PICKUPS" AND "BRACERS"


Shake and strain into a claret glass.     Omament with
pineapple and berries in season.
                         Stinger

     To two-thirds of brandy, add one-third of white
Creme de Menthe.     Ice, shake well, and serve in cocktail
glass.
                  Dubonnet Cocktail

     Mix in container two-thirds part Dubonnet, one-third
dry gin, fill with ice, stir well, but do not shake, and
strain into cocktail glass.
                      Jamaica Glow

   In shaker place one part gin, one-half portion Claret,
one-half portion orange juice, three or four dashes of
Jamaica ginger. Fill with ice, shake thoroughly until
very cold, strain in cocktail glass.
                     Pearl Cocktail

     Two parts dry gin, one part French Vermouth, three
dashes of onion juice, three dashes orange bitters.
Shake well and strain into cocktail glass. Garnish with
an olive.
                      Tom Collins

   In a long tumbler, place one portion dry Gordon gin,
juice of one-half lembn, one teaspoonful of powdered
sugar, a few lumps of ice and seltzer water. Stir well.
           "PICKUPS" AND "BRACERS"                     11


             NoRTH AND SOUTH COCKTAIL

    In shaker place one part Jamaica rum, and one part
dry gin, juice of one orange or one-half lemon, and a
dash of bitters. Ice, shake thoroughly and strain into
glass.

               Minute Man Highball

   In a large tumbler mix one-half applejack, one-half
Port wine and the juice of half an orange. Add ice
and seltzer water. Ginger aie may be used if preferred.

                   Brandy Port Nog

   Place in a shaker one part brandy, one part Port
wine, one raw egg, one teaspoonful of powdered sugar.
Fill the shaker with ice, shake thoroughly in order to
break up the egg, then strain into a large cocktail glass.
Grate a little nutmeg on top before serving.

                   Jamaica Bitters
   Mix in a large glass a large teaspoonful of powdered
sugar dissolved in a little seltzer water, three dashes of
lemon juice and a wine-glass of Jamaica rum.      Fill the
glass with shaved ice, shake up and strain into a claret
glass. Ornament with orange and berries in season.
                      CHAPTER II.




     BEFORE AND AFTER DINNER DRINKS

  For the Perfect Beginning and the Ferfect Ending

                 Orange Blossom Spécial

   Dip a spoon in honey and dissolve the honey that
adhères to the spoon in one part of gin. Add one part
orange juice. Ice in shaker and strain into cocktail glass.
                 Orange Blossom Cocktail

   Add the juice o£ half an orange to one portion of
gin; fill with ice, shake well and serve in cocktail glass.
                    Martini Cocktail

   Place in shaker two parts dry gin, one part Italian
Vermouth (French Vermouth if the drink is preferred
dry), two dashes of orange bitters; fill with ice, shake
and strain into a coclctail glass and garnish with a twist
of lemon peel,
                  Mint Spray Cocktail

   To one part of gin in a shaker add one part orange
juice and a half teaspoonful of powdered sugar ; add
ice, and shake up thoroughly. Serve in cocktail glass,
gamished with fresh mint.
                            12
     BEFORE AND AFTER DINNER DRINKS                   13


                    , Amber Dream

   Two-thirds dry gin, one-third French or Italian
Vermouth, add a small portion of Chartreuse and a dash
of orange bitters. Place in a shaker with ice, stir and
serve.

                Holland Old Fashioned

    Place a lump of sugar in a three ounce glass, reduce
to syrup •with a little hot water, a pony of Holland gin,
two dashes of bitters, add a twist of lemon peel and a
cube of ice. Stir slowly with a spoon and serve.

                   Tom Gin Martini

  One-half part of Tom gin, one-half part Italian Ver
mouth, (French if you prefer dry) fill with ice, shake
and serve with a green olive.

                       Mint Julep
   Dissolve one tablespoonful of powdered sugar in a
portion of Bourbon in which a few sprigs of mint have
been crushed.    Add ice and seltzer water, and decorate
with fresh mint.

                Havana Spécial Cocktail

   In shaker place three parts Bacardi rum and one
part Grenadine, juice of one lime, shake well with ice,
strain into cocktail glass and serve.
     14    BEFORE AND AFTER DINNER DRINKS



                      Alabama Mint Julep
         Place a teaspoonful of granulated sugar in a small
     glass and pour in enough hot water to make a thick
     syrup. Pour this slowly into a shaker over cracked ice.
     Next place two ounces of Bourbon whiskey in shaker,
     along with three or four sprigs of mint which have been
     bruised between the thumb and forefinger. Shake well
     and serve in whiskey glass.

                     Apple Brandy Cocktail

          Two-thirds apple brandy to one-third of Vermouth.
     Add a tablespoonful of syrup and a few dashes of
     orange bitters. Ice, shake well and serve in cocktail
     glass.

                            Brandy Smash

          Dissolve spoonful of sugar in bottom of whiskey
     glass. Crush a few sprigs of mint in it. Add a portion
     of brandy and a piece of ice. Stir with spoon and serve
     with spoon in glass.

                       CouNTRY Cocktail

          In shaker place a pony of Rye whiskey, two dashes
     orange bitters and„two dashes Angostura bitters. Twist
     a piece of lemon peel and drop into container. Fill with
     crushed ice, mix well and strain into whiskey glass.




ru
                     CHAPTER m.




     MIDNIGHT AND BEFORE-BED DRINKS

For Insomnia, Bad Dreams, Disillusionment and Despair

                      Golden Fizz

   In container place one portion o£ dry gin, the yolk
of a raw egg and two teaspoonfuls of powdered sugar.
Fin with ice, shake thoroughly to combine ingrédients
and serve Avith cold seltzer water.      Drink while still
effervescent.
                    Hot Spiced Rum

   Fill a tumbler tviro-thirds full of hot water after
placing spoon in glass and mix in a pony of Jamaica
rum. Add one teaspoonfui of sugar, juice of a quarter
of a lemon, and whole cloves to suit taste.    Serve with
spoon.
                        Egg Nog

   To one glass of fresh milk in a container add a raw
egg, two teaspoonfuls of sugar, a pony of brandy, fill
with ice and shake thoroughly to combine ingrédients.
Serve cold with a little grated nutmeg on top.
                 Albermarle Cocktail
   One pony Holland gin to one-half ounce Absinthe.
Fill shaker with ice, shake and strain into cocktail glass.
                            15
16    MIDNIGHT AND BEFORE-BED DRINKS


                     Crimson Cocktail

    Mix in a shaker one part dry gin with a dash of
orange bitters. Ice, shake and pour into a glass. Then
pour over this a half portion of Port wine. Allow it to
settle without stirring before serving.
                     Gin and Italian

   In a shaker pour two parts dry gin, one-third Italian
Vermouth, juice of one-quarter of an orange and a sprig
of mint. Fin with ice, shake well and strain into cock
tail glass.
                         Hot Irish

     Fill a tumbler two-thirds full of boiling v/ater, putting
a spoon in glass first to prevent cracking. In this dis
solve a spoonful of sugar and add a portion of Irish
whiskey. Squirt in the juice of a quarter lemon, and
omament with a slice of lemon. Serve with a spoon.

                     Egg Whiskey Fizz

    In a shaker place one portion whiskey, juice of half
a lemon, a teaspoonful of powdered sugar, white of one
raw egg, and a few dashes of Absinthe. Ice, shake
thoroughly to combine ingrédients and serve, half filling
the glass.   Fill up with seltzer water.
                       Tom and Jerry
     To one portion of brandy or rum, add one well-
     MIDNIGHT AND BEFORE-BED DRINKS                  17


beaten raw egg and two teaspoonfuls of sugar.   Stir
thoroughly while pouring in hot milk, and serve with
grated nutmeg or paprika on top.

                   Choléra Cocktail

   In a bar glass pour half a teaspoonful of Jamaica
ginger, one-third brandy, one-third Port wine and one-
sixth each of Cherry and Blackberry brandy. Grate
nutmeg on top and stir with spoon. Use no ice.

              Egg Bacardi Rum Cocktail

   In shaker place one dash Grenadine, one part Bacardi
rum, one part lemon juice and white of one egg. Ice,
shake until very cold and strain slowly.

                   CoLD Brandy Flip

   Mix together in a large glass a teaspoonful of
powdered sugar, a wine-glass of brandy, a half wine-
glass of water, a fresh raw egg and a feW; small lumps
of ice. Shake up thoroughly, strain into a small bar
glass and serve cold with a little grated nutmeg on top.
                    Sherry and Egg

   Break one raw egg into a large glass, stir it up well
and fill the glass with Sherry.
                    CHAPTER IV.




           "TAPERING OFF" COCKTAILS
     To Regain the Tight-Rope WalkePs Balance,
          the JugglePs Hair Split Précision

                  Brandy and Soda

   Into a large glass pour one wine-glass of brandy
and add a few small lumps of ice. Fill up the glass
with plain soda water.     This is sometimes called a
Stone Wall.
                    Whiskey Sour

   Use a small bar glass. To a large teaspoonful of
powdered sugar dissolved in a little seltzer water, add
the juice of a small lemon. Pour in a wine-glass of
Bourbon or Rye whiskey. Fill the glass full of shaved
ice, shake up and strain into a claret glass. Ornament
with berries before serving.

                    White Plush

   Pour a small glass half full of Bourbon or Rye
whiskey. Fill the glass with fresh milk. Drink with-
out stirring.

                Orange Gin Sp.arkle

   One and a half ounces of gin, three dashes of orange
                          18
           "TAPERING OFF" COCKTAILS                    19


bitters, one dash Angostura bitters; twist piece of lemon
peel and place in container, add ice and shake well. Be-
fore serving add a squirt of syphon seltzer.

                  Palm Beach Spécial

   Two-thirds dry gin, one-sixth grapefruit juice, one-
sixth either French or Italian Vermouth. Place in shaker,
add ice.   Shake well and serve in cocktail glass.

                       Gin Rickey

   One portion Gordon gin in tumbler, juice of half a
lime. Leave lime in glass with cracked ice and add
soda water.
              Gin and Italian with Sherry

   Use shaker. One-half portion gin, one-half portion
Italian Vermouth, exactly one tablespoonful Sherry, one
dash of bitters. Fill with ice, mix, shake and strain.

                Whiskey Fruit Cocktail

   In shaker place one part Scotch or Rye, one part
orange or grapefruit juice. Ice, shake well and serve.
One dash of Angostura bitters if added will enhance the
delicacy of the taste.

                     Planter's Punch

   Use long glass.    Squirt in the juice of a fresh lime,
20         "TAPERING OFF" COCKTAILS


two portions of sugar, a pony of water, four portions of
old Jamaica rum, Fill glass with shaved ice, shake well,
add dash of a red pepper if desired, and serve very cold
with long straws.

                Jamaica Rum Cocktail
     A full pony of Jamaica rum, two dashes gum syrup,
two dashes orange bitters, two dashes Angostura bitters,
ice, shake and pour into cocktail glass.
                    Plymouth Cocktail

     Two parts Plymouth gin, one-third Italian or French
Vermouth, fill with ice. Shake well and serve with a
twisted piece of lemon or orange peel.
                       CHAPTER V.




LADIES COCKTAILS AND OTHER DELICACIES
  The Women Will No Doubt Speak for Themselves

                   Alexander Cocktail

   In a shaker place one-third gin, one-third Creme de
Cocoa, and one-third rich cream. Fill with ice and
shake well in order to get a thorough mixture. Strain
and serve in cocktail glass.
                  CoRONATiON Cocktail

    In shaker place one-third dry gin, one-third Coin-
treau Triple Sec and one-third white Creme de Menthe.
Shake up thoroughly so as to mix cordials. Chop in
ice, fine but not too fine.   Strain into cocktail glass.
               Orange Curacoa Cocktail

   In container mix one part gin, one part orange gin,
three dashes Curacoa, sweeten with half a teaspoonful of
powdered sugar or honey, fill with ice and stir well
before serving.
                     CoRAL Cocktail

   In shaker place two parts gin, one part French or
Italian Vermouth and half a teaspoonful of Five Fruits
svrup. Ice, shake well and serve in cordial glass.
                              21
22     LADIES COCKTAILS AND DELICACTES


                     Russet Cocktail

    In a cocktail shaker place one part sweet cider, one
part dry gin, and a teaspoonful of Grenadine or rasp-
berry syrup. Add a few pièces of ice, shake well and
strain into cocktail glass.
                     Port Wine Flip

   Pour one portion of Port wine in container, one tea
spoonful of powdered sugar, one raw egg well beaten,
ice and shake thoroughly.     Serve with grated nutmeg
or cinnamon on top.
                    Egg Port Cocktail

     One part Port wine, one raw egg, and two dashes of
bitters.   Fill with shaved ice, shake thoroughly to stir
up egg in the container and strain into cocktail glass
before serving.
                  Sherry Mint Cocktail

    Place a pony of Sherry wine in a cocktail shaker,
eut in two fine sprays of mint, add a dash of lemon or
lime juice, shake well and strain into Delmonico glass
after cold icing.
                    Duchess Cocktail

     Place one-third each of French and Italian Vermouth
and one-third Asbinthe in shaker. Fill with ice, shake
well and serve in Delmonico glass.
*1   1.1W'




             LADIES COCKTAILS AND DELICACIES                  23


                              Pousse Cafe

           Pour carefully into a long thin cordial glass the fol-
       lowing in rotation: raspberry syrup, orange Cucacoa,
       green Creme de Menthe and brandy. Other combina-
       tions of cordials may be efïected, always bearing in mind
       that the heaviest should be poured first and always end
       with brandy.
                          Queen of Ireland
           Place two-thirds green Creme de Menthe in shaker,
       one-third Vermouth and one dash of orange bitters;
       fin with ice, shake well to get a smooth mixture and
       strain into cocktail glass.

                         Vermouth Cocktail

         Place in container one portion of Italian Vermouth,
      one dash of bitters, fill with ice, shake and strain into
      cocktail glass.
                        Fancy Sour Cocktail
         In shaker place one portion Vermouth, three dashes
      of Maraschino, four dashes of bitters and a dash of
      orange bitters. Squirt in juice of a quarter of a lemon.
      Fill with ice, shake and strain into cocktail glass.
                    CHAPTER VI.




              TEMPERANCE DRINKS
   Whenever the Stoîc Spirit of Déniai Seizes You

                    PxjRPLE Nectar

   Into a pitcher pour three pints of ginger aie. Add
one-half pint of plain grape juice. Ice well and squeeze
in half a lemon. Remove ice when sufficiently cold to
serve.
                        Ambrosia

   In a pitcher of iced water, dip a small bag of tea
until the water is slightiy flavored. Add four spoon-
fuls of sugar. Cut up an orange into small pièces and
allow to float in the drink. Then stir up with three
spoonfuls of orange marmalade. Serve cold.
                        Milk Fizz

   Fill an ordinary water glass three-fourths full of
ginger aie, add the rest milk. Stir with a spoonful of
honey and drink cold.
                 Nectar for Dog Days

    Place a snow-ball of shaved ice in a goblet, squirt
lemon juice over it and pour iced soda water over it
till goblet is filled. This is a refreshing thirst quencher.
                            24
                TEMPERANCE DRINKS                        25


                    Saratoga Cooler

     Mix in a large glass one bottle of ginger aie just
oflf the ice, juice o£ half a lemon, and one teaspoonful
of powdered sugar.
                      Soda Cocktail

    In bottom of a large glass pour one teaspoonful of
powdered sugar, three or four lumps of ice, and two
dashes of Angostura bitters. Pour over these ingrédients
a cold bottle of soda water, stir and remove ice before
serving.
                    ICED SaRSAPARXLLA

    Mix in a small pitcher two bottles of sarsaparilla,
juice of half a lemon and add plenty of ice. Serve very
cold.
                       Soda Nectar

    One glass of soda water, add a squirt of lemon juice,
ice and add two or three drops of vanilla extract.
                    Milk and Seltzer
    Fill half a glass with cold milk, and the rest with iced
seltzer.   Drink while effervescent.

                     CxDER Cocktail

   In a Delmonico glass place one-half a teaspoonful
of sugar, add two dashes of bitters, twist in a piece of
lemon peel, add a few lumps of ice, fill with cider, and
stir well before serving.
26               TEMPERANCE DRINKS


                   Phosphate Spécial

   In a container pour three-fourths of non-alcoholic
Vermouth, three dashes of phosphate, three dashes of
orange bitters, fill with cracked ice, shake well and
strain into cocktail glass.

                      Oggle Noggle

  Beat a whole raw egg into a glass of boiling milk.
Add a spoonful of sugar and a small lump of butter big
as the end of your fingemail.   Stir well and sérve hot.
This is a healthy and refreshing drink for growing
children.
                        Lemonade

     Squeeze two or three pièces of orange and half a
lemon into a large glass or small bowl. Fill with water
and add ice.    Add two spoonfuls of sugar.       Allow
pièces of lemon and orange to float in bowl together
with three or four Maraschino cherries.

                     Egg Lemonade

   In a large glass mix juice of half a lemon, one tea-
spoonful of powdered sugar, one raw egg, and three
or four small pièces of ice. Stir up thoroughly in a
shaker, strain into a soda-water glass and fill up with
seltzer water.   Omament with berries and serve cold.
                   CHAPTER VII.




           RARE AND FANCY DRINKS

  For Impish, Elfish, Mad, Capricious, Fairy Whims

                  Absinthe Frappe

   Scrape ice fine as snow.     Place in fiât wine-glass,
and cover with a pony of Absinthe; serve with short
straw and suck slowly as ice melts.

                 Peach and Honey

    Over a tablespoonful of raw honey, pour a wine-
glass of Peach brandy. Stir thoroughly and sip slowly.

                       Bishop

    In a large glass pour one wine-glass of water in
which a teaspoonful of powdered sugar bas been dis-
solved. Add two thin slices of lemon, two dashes of
Jamaica rum and a few small -lumps of ice. Fill the
glass with Claret or red Burgundy, shake well and
remove ice before serving.

                       Brandy Fizz               """   "

    Mix in a glass a teaspoonful of powdered sugar,
three dashes of lemon juice, and a small lump of ice.
Pour in a wine-glass full of brandy. Fill up the glass
                         27
28            RARE AND FANCY DRINKS

with seltzer water, stir thoroughly and serve while
effervescent.
                    Brandy Smash

    Press three or four sprigs of tender mint into the
bottom of a glass in which some sugared water bas
been placed.    Add a wine-glass full of brandy and
fin the glass two-thirds full of shaved ice. Stir thor
oughly and ornament with half a slice of orange, and
a few fresh sprigs of mint. Serve with a straw.

                   English Bishop

     Roast an orange which has been stuck well with
cloves over a fire, and when sufficiently brown, eut it
into quarters and pour over it a bottle of heated Port
wine. Add a spoonful of honey and let the mixture
simmer over the lire for twenty minutes.    Then serve
piping hot.
                      SiLVER Fizz

     In a container place one portion of dry gin, the
white of an egg, two teaspoonfuls of powdered sugar,
three dashes.of lemon juice.   Fill with ice and shake
thoroughly to combine the ingrédients.      Serve in a
tumbler with seltzer water.

                     Ramos Fizz

   Pour in a shaker, one portion of dry gin, juice of
half a lemon, white of one egg, one teaspoonful of
           RARE AND FANCY DRINKS                       29


powdered sugar, a few dashes of orange bitters. Fill
with ice and mix thoroughly to combine the ingrédients.
Serve in a tùmbler with soda water.

              Fancy Whiskey Cocktail

   Place in shaker one pony Rye whiskey, add two
dashes Maraschino, two dashes bitters, one dash orange
bitters and fill with ice until very cold.  Shake and
strain into small whiskey glass.

              Carlton Brandy Cocktail

   In a shaker place a pony of brandy, add three dashes
of Maraschino and two dashes of bitters.        Fill with
ice and shake. Pour into cocktail glass which has been
prepared by moistening its rim with a slice of lemon
dipped in powdered sugar.

                      Locomotive

    In a mug thoroughly beat together the yolk of a
raw egg, a tablespoonful of honey and three dashes
of Curacoa. Heat a claret glass of-red Burgandy in a
thoroughly clean sauce-pan until it boils, and then pour
il gradually upon the other ingrédients, whisking and
stirring the ingrédients ail the while in order to prevent
curdling. Serve hot.
                   Sazarac Cocktail

   To one portion of whiskey, add three or four dashes
30           RARE AND FANCY DRINKS


of.Absinthe, one tablespoonful of plain syrup, three
dashes of bitters. Ice, shake well and serve in whiskey
glass, garnished with a sprig of mint which bas been
bruised between the thumb and forefinger.

                     CuBAN Bacardi

    In container pour one wine-glass of Bacardi rum,
add white of one egg, large tablespoonful of pineapple
juice, same amount of orange juice. Fill shaker three-
quarters full of cracked ice, shake rapidly a few times
and serve.
                     Champagne Cup

   Into a pitcher place a quart of Champagne, two
ponies of brandy, two teaspoonfuls of powdered sugar,
a wine-glass of Sherry, and a dash of Curacoa and
Maraschino.      Add pièces of pineapple, orange, and
berries in season.   Garnish with fresh mint and serve
in Champagne goblet.

                     Whiskey Smash

     Mix togëther a teaspoonful of powdered sugar, dis-
solved in a little water, a wine-glass of whiskey, and
put in three or four sprigs of young mint which have
been bruised between the thumb and forefinger.
                    CHAPTER VIII.




               FANCY WINE DRINKS

 For the Pink-Jowled, Round-Paunched, Side-Whiskered
   Lover of Red, Gold, Purple and Plain White Wines

                         Rajah

   Roast four bitter oranges until they are of a pale
brown color. Lay them in a tureen and cover them with
a half pound of granulated sugar, adding three glasses
of Claret.   Cover the tureen and let it stand until the
next day. Then place the tureen in a pan of boiling
water, press the oranges with a spoon, until the juice
spurts, and run the juice through a sieve to strain it
clear. Add to it two glassfuls of boiling Claret and
serve warm in goblets. Port wine may be substituted
for Claret, and lemons may be used instead of oranges,
but this is not often donc when Claret is used.

                   Mulled Muscatel

    Into a pot of boiling water put a suitable quantity
of cloves, cinnamon and grated nutmeg.        When the
flavor becomes pungent to the nostrils pour in an equal
amount of Muscatel wine in which a few teaspoonfuls
of sugar have been dissolved. Bring the whole to the
boiling point, and serve piping hot with crisp dry toast.
Mulled wine can be made with Port, Claret or Madeira.
                          31
32             FANCY WINE DRINKS


                       Claeet Cup

     Mix into a container one bottle of Claret wine, a
half pint of iced water, a tablespoonful of powdered
sugar, and one teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon,
cloves and allspice, mixed. Squirt in the juice of a small
lemon. Stir the ingrédients well together, adding the
thin rind of the lemon.       This is a delicate summer
beverage for evening parties.
                    Sherry Egg Nog

     Pour into a large bar glass two wine-glasses of
Sherry wine, a well-beaten egg and fill rest with rich
creamy milk.   Add a few lumps of ice. Stir thor-
oughly and strain into a large goblet. Grate a little
nutmeg on top and remove ice before serving.
                   Rhine and Seltzer

     Fill a glass half full of Rhine wine. Add ice and
fill up with seltzer water. Serve very cold. This is an
excellent thirst quencher.
                    Sherry Cobbler

   Into a large glass put one tablespoonful of powdered
white sugar, one-quarter of an orange eut up into pièces
and two small pièces of pineapple. Fill the glass nearly
full of shaved ice, then fill up with Sherry wine.   Oma-
ment the top with berries in season, and serve with
straws.
              FANCY WINE DRINKS                       33


                 Champagne Cobbler

   Fill container one-third full of shaved ice, throw in
a piece of orange or lemon peel, fill up with Champagne,
ornament with berries in season and serve with straws.

                  Baclanova Nectar

   In a large container peel and shred fine the rind of
half a lemon, add a tablespoonful of powdered sugar
and the juice of a whole lemon. Cut in a few thin slices
of cucumber with the peel on. Add a bottle of Claret,
a pint of Champagne and a bottle of seltzer water. Fill
with ice, stir thoroughly and serve.
                   Sherrio Cocktail

   Te one part of Sherry wine add an equal amount of
Vermouth, two dashes of orange bitters, place in a shaker
with ice, and stir thoroughly and serve.
                 Champagne Cocktail

    In a goblet place one lump of loaf sugar saturated
with Angostura bitters, one cube of ice and one piece
of twisted lemon peel. Fill the goblet with cold Cham
pagne, stir with a spoon and serve.
                 Fort Wine Sangaree
   Into a glass of Port wine put in a half teaspoonful
of powdered sugar, and add a few small lumps of ice.
Shake up well, strain into a claret goblet and serve
with a little grated nutmeg on top.
                      CHAPTER IX.




          PUNCHES AND PARTY DRINKS
 For Those Who See in the Bottom of a Punchbowî
     a Horoscope of Gaiety, Joy, Revelry, Carousing
                   and Happy Madness

                      Nectar Punch

    Into a small punch bowl pour a quart of rum, one
pint of milk boiling-hot, one quart of cold water, and
a pound of granulated sugar. Cool gradually and add
ice. Add a few slices of apple before serving.

                 Punch A La Romaine

   For a party of fifteen to twenty persons, dissolve
two pounds of powdered sugar in the juice of ten
lemons and two sweet oranges, adding the thin rind of
one orange. Strain this through a sieve into a large
punch bowl and add the white of ten eggs beaten to a
froth. Place the bowl on ice for a while, then stir in
briskly a quart of rum, and two bottles of Port wine.
Do not serve too cold.
                     Glaret Punch

    Fill a tumbler two-thirds full of shaved ice, add a
teaspoonful of powdered sugar, a slice of lemon and a
slice of orange, both eut into quarters; fill with Glaret,
                           34
         PUNCHES AND PARTY DRINKS                     35


 shake well, and ornament with berries in season.   Serve
 with a straw.
                   Sauterne Punch

    Fill a small container two-thirds full of shaved ice.
Add one teaspoonful of powdered sugar, one slice of
lemon, one slice of orange, one piece of pineapple. Fill
with Sauteme, omament with berries in season and serve
v/ith a straw.
                  Champagne Punch

    Mix together in a container, one quart of Cham
pagne, three tablespoonfuls of sugar, one orange sliced,
the juice of a lemon, two slices of pineapple eut into
small pièces and a wine-glass measure of raspberry or
strawberry syrup. Put in a few lumps of ice. Orna
ment with fruits in season and serve in Champagne
goblets after removing ice.

                    Orange Punch

   Cut the peel of two oranges into a quart and a half
of water and squeeze in the juice of four oranges; also
drop in a small cupful of powdered sugar. Allow to
boil half an hour and add a half pint of porter, three-
quarters of a pint of rum and an equal amount of brandy.
A liqueur glass of Curacoa and a dash of Maraschino
will improve the drink immensely. Serve piping hot.
Lemon Punch may be made with this formula by sub-
stituting lemons for oranges.




                                                            'V i' >llltlilhlHiÉ|i|fc
36        PUNCHES AND FARTY DRINKS


                     Brandy Punch

   Into a punch bowl mix a teaspoonful of powdered
sugar dissolved in a little water, a teaspoonful of rasp-
berry syrup, a wine-glass of brandy, half a wine-glass
of Jamaica rum, juice of half a lemon, two slices of
orange and a piece of pineapple.       Fill the bowl with
shaved ice, stir thoroughly and dress the top with berries
in season.   Serve with a straw.



             Hot Brandy and Rum Punch

     This is an excellent punch for a party of fifteen
coming in from cold and biting weather. Rub a pound
of white loaf sugar over four lemons until it bas ab-
sorbed ail the yellow part of the skins, then put the sugar
into a large punch bowl, stirring it together with the
lemon juice. Pour three quarts of boiling water over
this, adding a quart of Jamaica rum, a quart of brandy
and a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg. Mix thoroughly
and the punch will be ready to serve.


                      Milk Punch

   In a large glass pour a teaspoonful of white sugar, a
wine-glass full of brandy, one-half wine-glass of rum
and a small lump of ice. Fill the glass with milk, shake
well and grate a little nutmeg on top before serving.
        PUNCHES AND PARTY DRINKS                        37


                   Impérial Punch

   Into a large pitcher pour a bottle of Claret, a bottle
of soda water, four tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar,
a quarter teaspoonfui of grated nutmeg, and a liqueur
glass of Maraschino.   Put in a few large lumps of ice
and three or four slices of cucumber rind.       Mix well
and serve.
                  St. Charles Punch
    In a large glass pour one teaspoonfui of sugar dis-
solved in a little water, one wine-glass of Port wine,
one pony of brandy and the juice of a quarter of a lemen.
Fill the glass with shaved ice, stir well, omament with
fruits in season and serve with a straw.

                   El Dorado Punch

   Pour into a large glass a pony of brandy, a half
pony of Jamaica rum, a half pony of Bourbon, and
add a tablespoonful of sugar and a slice of lemon. Fill
the glass with fine ice, stir well and omament with berries
and small pièces of orange. Serve with a straw.
             Claret Cup A La Henry VIII

   Peel ofï the rind of a lemon and mix both the juice
and rind with powdered sugar. Pour over them a glass
of Sherry and a bottle of Claret and sweeten to taste.
Add a sprig of verbena and a bottle of soda water
with a little grated nutmeg.  Strain the mixture and
serve with ice.
                                                            a:.




                     CHAPTER X.
            *




HOT DRINKS FOR THE FEVERED, CHILLED
                      AND COLD

For Wet Feet, Chattering Teeth, Cold Spines, Shivers,
     Goose-Flesh, Frozen Fingers and Chillbaîn

                     Blue Blazer

    Use two glass mugs. In one dissolve a teaspoonful
of powdered sugar with a wine-glass of boiling water.
Pour in one wine-glass of Scotch whiskey. Ignite the
liquid with fire, and while blazing mix the ingrédients
by pouring from one mug to the other, four or five
times. If expertly done it will have the appearance of
a continued stream of fire, but the novice should be
careful not to scald himself. Serve piping hot in a small
glass with a piece of twisted lemon peel.
                       Hot Ru m

   In a heated bar glass pour one wine-glass of Jamaica
rum. Add a teaspoonful of powdered sugar and a small
piece of butter, big as the end of your fingemail. Fill
with boiling water, stirring as you pour, Grate a little
nutmeg on top and serve.
                   Port Wine Negus

   Pour a large glass of Port wine into a pitcher. Rub
                           38
     HOT DRINKS FOR THE FEVERED, ETC.                  39


five or six lumps of sugar against the rind of a lemon
until ail the yellow part of the skin is absorbed by the
sugar. Squeeze the lemon juice on the sugar, strain,
and add the lemon juice and sugar to the Port wine.
Add grated nutmeg, fill up with boiling water, cover the
whole, and when cooled ofï it will be ready to serve.

                 Hot Whiskey Toddy

   Dissolve a teaspoonful of sugar with boiling water
in a large bar glass. Add one wine-glass of Bourbon
or Rye whiskey, and fill up with boiling water.

                        Hot Gin Seing

     Dissolve a small spoonful of powdered sugar in a
little boiling water, add a wine-glass of gin, and fill up
with boiling water.      Grate a little nutmeg on top and
serve.


                        Rock and Rye

   Stir together in a small container one tablespoonful
of rock-candy syrup and one wine-glass full of Rye
whiskey.    Heat over a flame and drink hot.      This is
excellent for a cold.


                        Hot Italian

   Pare the rind of four lemons, and squeeze the juice
upon the peel, steeping it ovemight.     Then add half a
40   HOT DRINKS FOR THE FEVERED, ETC.


pound of loaf sugar, a large glass of Sherry wine and a
large glass of boiling water. Stir well, add three large
glasses of boiling milk, strain through a cloth and serve
piping hot.
                  Hot Scotch Punch

   Mix in a large glass, one wine-glass of Scotch
whiskey, two wine-glasses of boiling water. Add two
lumps of sugar and serve.

             Hot Irish Whiskey Punch

   Mix in large glass, one wine-glass of Irish whiskey,
two wine-glasses of boiling water, two lumps of sugar.
Put in a small piece of lemon rind or a thin slice of
lemon. Before using the glass, rinse it in hot water.

                  Hot Brandy Toddy

    Dissolve a teaspoonful of powdered sugar in a little
boiling water, add brandy and fill up with boiling
water.   Add a little grated nutmeg on top and serve.

                    Hot Applejack

   Fill a container ..two-thirds full of boiling water,
and one-third full of applejack. Squirt in juice of one
quarter of a lemon, add two spoonfuls of sugar, garnish
with a slice of lemon and serve.
                     CHAPTER XI.




         CELEBRITIES FAVORITE DRINKS
    What Sortie of Dur Best Known People Drink
                  When They Are Abroad

BEN BERNIE, Orchestrian Extraordinary.
   "In London I have found an excellent Chablis.      In
Berlin aftimes I have enjoyed something like a 'Sauteme
Cobbler'. It is made by filling a container with Sau-
terne, adding shaved ice, and throwing in a few white
cherries and small pièces of pineapple to give it color.
Travel is not without its benefits."
WINNIE LIGHTNER, international star of musical
         shows.
    "When I was playing in London I used to call for a
drink that ail my friends laughed at, but after a while
they began to call it the 'Lightner Spécial. Absinthe
and Canada Dry ginger aie stirred up together in a
glass.   Can you imagine it?"
"BIG BILL" TILDEN, most famous of Tennis stars.
   "I use only water."
CHARLES WINNINGER, musical comedy star.
   "Have you heard of the "Pousse l'Amour?" Try it
at the Cafe du Dome in Paris.      First, pour very care-
fully into a sherry glass one-half a glassful of Mara-
                            41
42             CELEBRITIES DRINKS


schino, then introduce the yolk of a raw egg with a
spoon without disturbing the Maraschino; next care-
fully surround the egg with vanilla cordial, and lastly
pour a tablespoonful of fine old brandy on top. Be
carefui not to mix the ingrédients. ' This requires a
steady hand, but the drink is heavenly."
MISS VIVIENNE SEGAL, famous star of light opéra.
   "This exquisite mixture has always been my favorite.
Three-quarters of a cordial glass full of Benedictine.
The balance rich sweet cream.     I believe it is known as
'Creme Benedictine'."
JOHN CLARKE, Ziegfeld star.
     "Side Car Punch, as it is made in London is hard
to forget. For a party of ten, slice four oranges and
a juicy pineapple into a punch bowl. Pour a bottle of
line Cognac brandy over them and let it steep for a few
hours ; then pour in three bottles of iced Champagne and
serve immediately. A marvelous concoction!"
YVONNE D'AREE, musical comedienne.
    "1 still prefer the old, reliable Clover Club Cocktail.
They are mixing it now even at Deauville. In a shaker
place a pony of dry gin, juice of half a lime, white of
a raw egg, and a spoonful of Grenadine. Fill with ice,
shake and strain into a cocktail glass. When serving it
should be gamished with a sprig of fresh mint."
TRIXJE FRIGANZA, celebrated vaudevillienne.
  "In that nautical city of Venice I first made the ac-
              CELEBRITIES DRINKS                    "43


quaintance of a remarkably delicious drink known as
Tort and Starboard'. Pour one-half part Grenadine or
raspberry syrup in a cordial glass. Then on top of this
pour one-half portion of Creme de Menthe slowly so
that the ingrédients will not mix. Dear old Venice."
CHARLES ELLIS, Ziegfcld star.
    "I have found the Boulevard Cocktail a very pleasing
drink. To one part gin, and half a part each of Italian
and French Vermouth, add one-half portion orange or
grapefruit juice. Ice in a shaker and strain into cock
tail glasses. You may try it at the Cafe .Rotonde, in
Paris."

KARL K. KITCHEN, Broadway's favorite colyumnist.
    "My good friend, Harry Craddock, bartender of the
Savoy Hôtel in London, and dean of ail bartenders,
braced me up like a new-born infant with a new cock
tail he invented for me on the spur of the moment.
It is called a 'Hercules,' half gin and half Mati, the
Mati coming from Mexico."
                       CHAPTER XII.




MISÇELLANEOUS DRINKS FOR ANYWHERE
                      AND ANYTIME

   For Doctor, Lawyer or Indien Chief', Rich Mon,
                  Foor Man or Wicked Thief

                    METROPOLE Cocktail

    Two parts brandy to one part French Vermouth in
a glass. Add two dashes each of ordinary bitters, orange
bitters, and gum ; fill with cracked ice, mix and pour into
cocktail glass.

              Forty-Second Country Club

   In a shaker put two-thirds Rye whiskey and one-
third Italian Vermouth; add a dash of Absinthe.        Fill
with ice, shake well and serve in cocktail glass.

                   Manhattan Cocktail

    To one part Rye whiskey add an equal amount of
Italian Vermouth (French if dry is preferred), add two
dashes bitters, two dashes gum, crushed ice, shake well
and serve with a Maraschino cherry.

           Old Fashioned Brandy Cocktail

   In a large whiskey glass place a lump of sugar.   Pour
                            44
            MISCELLANEOUS DRINKS                        45

enough hot water to cover the sugar. Add a lump of
ice and two dashes of bitters. Over this pour one por
tion of brandy. Twist a small piece of lemon peel and
place in glass. Stir with small spoon, and serve with
spoon in glass.

                   Rob Roy Cocktail

    To two parts Scotch whiskey add one part Ver
mouth and several dashes of orange bitters. Ice, shake
well and strain into cocktail glass.

                     Rum Cocktail

   In a shaker pour two parts rum and one part Ver
mouth. Add two or three dashes of Angostura bitters,
mix well, and serve in cocktail glass.

                  Whiskey Cocktail

    In a shaker, add to each drink of Rye whiskey, two
dashes of gum syrup and two dashes of Angostura bit
ters; fin with ice, shake a few times and strain into a
whiskey glass. Add a twist of lemon Or lime peel be-
fore serving.
                   Florida Spécial

   Place a cube of ice in a six ounce glass, fill with one
pony Bacardi rum, juice of a grapefruit, twist of lime
peel, and stir with a highball mixer.
46           MISCELLANEOUS DRINKS


              Brandy-Vermouth Cocktail

    One part brandy to one part Italian Vfermouth, half
a spoonful of powdered sugar, a dash of bitters; stir
thoroughly until sugar is dissolved. Fill up with cracked
ice using Delmonico glass ; then fill with seltzer. (If dry
cocktail is desired, use French Vermouth and no sugar.)
                Vermouth Sec Cocktail

  Place in a container one portion of French Vermouth,
add two dashes of bitters, fill with ice, mix and strain in.
a cocktail glass.

                Brandy and Ginger Ale

   Into a large glass pour a wine-glass of brandy, two
or three lumps of ice and fill up with ginger aie; drink
while still effervescent.

                        CoLD Irish

    Pour into a large glass two wine-glasses of water in
which a teaspoonful of fine white sugar has been dis
solved, add a wine-glass of Irish whiskey and a large
lump of ice ; stir with a spoon, and serve very cold.
                Split Soda and Brandy

  In a médium glass pour a ponyful of brandy and a
small lump of ice, squirt full with seltzer water and
drink while effervescent.
47
                           INDEX

              CHAPTER I.                            CHAPTER IV.
                           Page                                        Page
 Brandy Port Nog             11          Brandy and Soda                 18
 Brandy Sour                       9     Gin and Italian with Sherry     19
Charleston Bracer              9         Gin Rickey                      19
Dubonnet Cocktail             10         Jamaica Rum Cocktail            20
 Gin   Sour                        9     Orange Gin Sparkle              18
Jamaica Glow                  10         Paira Beach Spécial             19
Jamaica Bitters               11         Planter's Punch                 19
Minute Man Highball           11        Plymouth Cocktail                20
North and South Cocktail      11        Whiskey Fruit- Cocktail          19
Pearl Cocktail                10        Whiskey Sour                     18
Stinger                       10        White Flush                      18
Tom Collins                   10                   CHAPTER V.
         CHAPTER n.                     Alexander Cocktail              21
Alabama Mint Julep            14        Coral Cocktail                  21
Amber Dream                   13        Coronatîon Cocktail             21
Apple Brandy Cocktail         14        Duchess Cocktail                22
Brandy Smash                  14        Egg Port Cocktail               22
Country Cocktail              14        Fancy Sour Cocktail             23
Havana Spécial Cocktail       13        Orange Curacoa Cocktail         21
Holland Old Fashioned         13        Port Wine Flip                  22
Martini Cocktail              12        Pousse Cafe                     23
Mint Julep                   13         Queen of Ireland                23
Mint Spray Cocktail          12         Russet   Cocktail               22
Orange Blossom Cocktail      12         Sherry Mint Cocktail            22
Orange Blossom Spécial       12         Vermouth    Cocktail            23
Tom Gin Martini              13                    CHAPTER VI.
          CHAPTER ni.                   Ambrosia                        24
Albermarle Cocktail        ...15        Cider Cocktail                  25
Choiera Cocktail              17        Egg Lemonade                    26
Cold Brandy Flip             17         Iced Sarsaparilla               25
Crimson Cocktail             16         Lemonade                        26
Egg Bacardi Rum Cocktail     17         Milk and Seltzer                25
Egg Nog                      15         Milk Fizz                       24
Egg Whiskey Fizz             16         Nectar for Dog Days             24
Gin and Italian              16         Oggle Noggle                    26
Golden Fizz                  15         Phosphate Spécial               26
Hot Irîsh                    16         Purple Nectar                   24
Hot Spîced Rum               15         Saratoga Cooler                 25
Sherry and Egg               17         Soda Cocktail                   25
Tom and Jerry                16         Soda Nectar                     25

                                   48
                                        ,7'/ '




         CHAPTER Vn.                                                Page
                            Page      Sauteme Punch                    35
Absinthe Frappe               27      St. Charles Punch                37
Bishop                        27                   CHAPTER X.
Brandy Fizz                   27
                                      Blue   Blazer                    38
Brandy Smash                  28
                                      Hot Apple Jack                   40
Cariton Brandy Cocktail       29
                                      Hot Brandy Toddy                 40
Champagne Cup                 30
                                      Hot Gin SUng                     39
Cuban Bacardi                 30
                                      Hot Irish Whiskey Punch          40
English Bishop                28
                                      Hot Italian                      39
Fancy Whiskey Cocktail        29
                                      Hot Rum                          38
Locomotive                    29
                                      Hot Scotch Punch                 40
Peach and Honey               27
                                      Hot Whiskey Toddy                39
Ramos Fizz                    28
                                      Port Wine Negus                  38
Sazarac Cocktail              29
                                      Rock and Rye                     39
Silver Fizz                     28
Whiskey Smash                   30                 CHAPTER XI.
                                      Bernie, Ben                      41
         CHAPTER VTTT
Baclanova Nectar                33    Clarke, John                     42
Champagne Cobbler               33    D'Arle, Yvonne                   42
Champagne Cocktail              33    Ellis, Charles                   43
Claret Cup                            Friganza, Trixie                 42
MuUed Muscatel                  31    Kitchen, Karl K                  43
Port Wine Sangaree              33    Lightner, Winnie                 41
Rajah                                 Segal, Miss Vivienne             42
Rhine and Seltzer                32   Tilden, "Big Bill"               41
Sherrio Cocktail                 33   Winninger, Charles               41
Sherry Cobbler              .,,.Z2                 CHAPTER XH.
Sherry Egg Nog                        Brandy and Ginger Aie            46
         CHAPTER rx.                  Brandy-Vermouth Cocktail         46
Brandy Punch                          Cold Irish                       46
Champagne Punch                       Florida Spécial                 45
Claret Cup a La Henry VTTT ....37     Forty-Second Country Club       44
Claret Punch                          Manhattan     Cocktail           44
El Dorado Punch                37     Métropole Cocktail               44
Hot Brandy and Rum Punch ....36       Old Fashioned Brandy Cocktail ..44
Impérial Punch                 37     Rob Roy Cocktail                45
Milk Punch                            Rum    Cocktail                 45
Nectar Punch                          Split Soda and Brandy           46
Orange Punch                          Vermouth Sec Cocktail        ....46
Punch a la Romaine             34     Whiskey Cocktail                 45


                                 49
       -èi#,;.




                 ^1




KiliSfeV-: :••
     • npiiii   I        Ml
                    ••        ."1               ••    •

                         ' ^****^'*   "***lOlMl I I
y"




                                                          "   •   '    '&
                                                                       • a-j
                                                                      • , •V'i:.
//




                Vv'>..



      piAfï'i
     T.-A(,
•Éd^tkwaiiii
                 m .




UmA   ^ hli 11
