liftifcitii r I   tr'-ittv i ' riMViUhi
Wp'-' '

  f.'rf'ij
  i'' t
          ••J   •




                W    •.. 'v
                              ' •:.^
                    ,-<>/•'     <f

                JA'J .•


                         mM.               •


                                       V       ,/v j




                                                       i»^



                                                             Uj/v .i.fi
                                                             ^            r
                           t"
'   -' i lliiLJtM   a-kJ
            —W^9> II •"




                                                ii

                                                •1




m--
yy-yu'           •,.



"   1.    r .^
                                M»
                                           r>,i
         <\\\.                   •   \ r

                                            ,    ,,




m'.',     '''i
                                           .1
                                                V
                                            • •(




                                                      I




                          •mm


1   j              t..<
GIGGLE WATER




               . i< ^
     t I) I. I




                                        : •V •
                                                     /i
                                                     (U


                     •V'                       ,
                   •'K                       . ' '
                                     VY-
                 ., '. KJi-" ;• •      '< ••• .•
                   •       '   '.I




                                        ir




                                                               , r
                                                           •;Y's
                                                           •v^;:y
                                                          /iV '• 2^ '' . ••

L.
                                     .••SI

//?fV                                  a




^1
 INCLUDING ELEVEN FAMOUS
  COCKTAILS OF THE MOST
    EXCLUSIVE CLUB OF
            NEW YORK

        As Served Before the War

 WHEN MIXING DRINKS WAS
              AN ART




    CHARLES S. WARNOCK
    SC9 Fifth Avenue     Ne-w York
                  COPYRIGHT, 1928, BY   . ...
                CHARLES S. WARNOCK




I   '




        '   •(,(•••>'••'•   .;f   ,




              raiNTED IN THE U. S. A.
                       CONTENTS
                                                    PAGE

       Home-Made Brandies                                 7

       Home-Made Cordials                                17

       Home-Made Gin                      ...            39

       How TO Mix Home-Made Plain and Fancy
          Drinks                                         45

       Eleven Famous Cocktails                           89
       Home-Made Wine                                    93

       Index                                        I43




Sf')
 •%                         •    ' ' •,    . V. ,. ; '        ^V''.
m'i' '•




    •V'-




           x't'
HOME-MADE BRANDIES




    -Jbiu
/. 1
  s    ,



i,''




 ^ -i.o»




           i'(il
                                                        •V•   ••.; -i.




V^.f.
.1'.




S#^••:'(t»T-• • • •                             ^••'"
                   r •' •,,,'-.4 • '••   Ac *
                           kyXJuK':-<
  i •




i:
h ' ,




                             BRANDIES


                         I. APPLE BRANDY

           Take seven gallons of water and boil one-half, put
        ting the other into a barrel; add the boiling water to the
        cold, with one-half gallon of molasses and a little yeast.
        Keep the bung-hole open until fermentation cease^.




                     2. OLD APPLE BRANDY

          One gallon of neutral spirits, one-half cup of decoction
        of tea, one and one-half pints of alcoholic solution of
        starch, one-eighth ounce of sulphuric acid. This is flavored
        with one-fourth ounce of the oil of apples. Color with
        one ounce of sugEir coloring.




                    3. BLACKBERRY BRANDY
          One-quarter pound essence of blackberry, one quart
        blackberry juice, one-quarter pound of gum arabic, one
        small barrel pure spirits.
                                     9
10                 GIGGLE WATER

                 4. CARAWAY BRANDY
  Steep one ounce of caraway-seed and six ounces of loaf
sugar with one quart of brandy. Let it stand nine days and
then draw off.


          5. BLACK CHERRY BRANDY
  Stone two pounds of black cherries and put on them
one quart of brandy. Bruise the stones in a mortar, and
then add them to the brandy. Cover them close and let
them stand a month or six weeks. Then pour it clear from
the sediment and bottle it. Morello cherries, managed in
this way, make a fine cordial.



                 6. CHERRY BRANDY

  For this purpose use either morello cherries or small
black cherries. Pick them from the stalks; fill the bottles
nearly up to the necks, then fill up with brandy (some
people use whiskey, gin, or spirit distilled from the lees
of the wine.) In three weeks or a month strain off the
spirit; to each quart add one pound of loaf sugar clarified,
and flavor with tincture of cinnamon or cloves.



                  7. ORANGE BRANDY
   Put the chips of six Seville oranges in one quart of
brandy, and let them steep a fortnight in a stone bottle
close stopped. Boil two and two-thirds pints of spring
                   GIGGLE WATER                           ii

water with eight ounces of the finest sugar, nearly an
hour, very gently. Clarify the water and sugar with the
white of an egg; then strain it through a jelly-bag, and
boil it nearly half away. When it is cold, strain the brandy
into the syrup.



             8.   RASPBERRY BRANDY

  Raspberry brandy is infused nearly after the same
manner as cherry brandy, and drawn off with about the
same addition of brandy to what is drawn off from the
first, second, and third infusion, and dulcified accordingly,
first making it of a bright deep color, omitting cinnamon
and cloves in the first, but not in the second and third
infusion. The second infusion will be somewhat paler
than the first, and must be lightened in color by adding
one pint cherry brandy, with five or more gallons of
raspberry brandy, and the third infusion will require
more cherry brandy to color it. It may be flavored with
the juice of elderberry.




9. HOW TO PREPARE ESSENCE OF COGNAC
  Take I ounce oil cognac—the green oil is the best;
put it in Yz gallon 95 per cent spirits. Cork it up tight,
shake it frequently for about 3 days; then add 2 ounces
strong ammonia. Let it stand 3 days longer; then place
in a stone jar that will contain about 3 gallons, i pound
fine black tea, 2 pounds prunes, having first mashed the
12                  GIGGLE WATER

prunes and broken the kernels. Pour on them i gallon
spirits 20 above proof. Cover it close, and let it stand
8 days. Filter the liquor, and mix with that containing
the oil and ammonia. Bottle it for use. This makes the
best flavoring knovm for manufacturing brandies, or
for adding to such cordials, syrups, etc., as require a
fine brandy flavor.


       10. IMITATION COGNAC BRANDY
   To 36 gallons French proof spirits, add 4 gallons Pel-
levoisin or Marette cognac, ^ gallon best sherry or
Madeira wine, and 20 drops oil of cognac, dissolved in
a little 95 per cent alcohol. Then pour 2 quarts boiling
water over 2 ounces black tea; when cold, filter through
flannel, and add a little maraschino; mix this with the
other ingredients, and color the whole to suit, with
caramel.
  Another excellent formula is as follows: Dissolve 20
drops oil of cognac and 15 drops oil of bitter almonds
in a little 95 per cent alcohol; add it to 40 gallons 60
per cent French spirit, with 2 pints tincture of raisin,
2 pints of tincture of prunes, 3 pints best Jamaica rum,
3 pints best sherry -wine, and   ounce acetic ether. Color
with caramel.



             II. IMITATION BRANDY
  Take 40 gallons French spirit; add to it i pint tinc
ture of raisins, i quart prune flavoring,   gallon best
                   GIGGLE WATER                           13
sherry or Madeira wine, and i pint wine vinegar. Then
add I drachm oil of cognac, 12 drops oil of bitter al
monds,     to ^2 drachm tannin powder, each dissolved
separately in 95 per cent alcohol. Color to suk with
caramel.




       12. IMITATION FRENCH BRANDY

   To 40 gallons French proof spirit, add i quart tinc
ture of orris root, I pint vanilla flavoring,    gallon best
sherry or Madeira wine, and i pint wine vinegar. Dis
solve separately, i drachm oil of cognac and 12 drops
oil of bitter almonds, each in a little 95 per cent alcohol,
and add them to the mixture, coloring the whole to suit
with caramel.




           13. IMITATION PALE BRANDY
  Infuse I drachm star-anise (breaking the star only)
for 8 hours in   pint 95 per cent alcohol, and filter;
add this to 40 gallons proof spirits; then add Yz gallon
best Jamaica rum, and i pint of the best raspberry syrup.
Dissolve I drachm oil of cognac, and 12 drops oil of
bitter almonds, separately, in a little 95 per cent alcohol
and mix them with the whole.
14                GIGGLE WATER
          14. BLACKBERRY BRANDY
  To 10 gallons blackberry juice and 25 gallons spirits
40 above proof, add i drachm each of, oil of cloves and
011 of cinnamon dissolved in 95 per cent alcohol, and
12 pounds white sugar dissolved in 6 gallons water. Dis
solve the oils separately in     pint 95 per cent alcohol;
mix both together and use one half the quantity; if
the cordial is not sufficiently flavored, use the balance.




           15. BLACKBERRY BRANDY
     ounce each of cinnamon, cloves and mace, i drachm
cardamon. Grind to a coarse powder; add to 16 pounds
of blackberries, mashed and 5 gallons of 95 per cent al
cohol. Macerate for two weeks; press it; then add 10
pounds of sugar, dissolved in 3^ gallons of water. Filter,

                            <x>-o




              16. CHEJ5RY BRANDY
  Mash 16 pounds of black cherries with their stones;
5 gallons 95 per cent alcohol. Macerate for two weeks;
press it; then add 10 pounds of sugar, dissolved in 3^
gallons of water. Filter.




                                    1   LU.L , ••• •
                  GIGGLE WATER                       15

               17. PEACH BRANDY
  Mash 18 pounds of peaches with their stones; macerate
them for 24 hours with 4^ gallons of 95 per cent al
cohol and 4 gallons water. Strain, press and filter; add
5 pints white plain syrup. Color dark yellow with burnt
sugar coloring.
i"'?   .''i; '• ., •••h'   '•
•''•'jkV ''' •' • "' IV''' • '•
                              '•"tTfT




fev'

K.'l'




        'HOME-MADE CORDIALS




 'TI
                    CORDIALS
  To filter cordials, cover the bottom of a sieve with
clean blotting-paper. Pour the liquor into it (having* set
a vessel underneath to receive it), and let drip through
the paper and through the sieve. Renew the paper fre
quently and fasten it down with pins. This process is
slow, but makes the liquor beautifully clear.




           i8. ANISE-SEED CORDIAL
  Take Yt. pound bruised anise-seed, 3 gallons proof
spirit, I quart of water. Draw off two gallons with a
moderate fire. This water should never be reduced below
proof, because the large quantity of oil with which it is
impregnated will render it milky and foul when brought
down below proof. But if there is a necessity for doing
this the transparency may be restored by filtration.



          19. BLACKBERRY CORDIAL
  Mash and strain the berries through sieve. To i gallon
of juice put I pound of sugar. Boil and add i tablespoon
                           19
20                GIGGLE WATER

of allspice, i tablespoon of cloves. Cook till thick. When
nearly cold add one quart of whiskey or brandy. Bottle
and seal.




             20. CARAWAY CORDIAL

  Take i teaspoonful of oil of caraway, four drops of
cassia-lignea oil, i drop of essence of orange peel, i
drop of essence of lemon, 5 quarts and a gill of spirits,
     pounds of loaf sugar. Make it up and fine it down.



              21. CITRON CORDIAL

  Yi pound yellow rind of citrons, 2 ounces orange peel,
% ounce bruised nutmegs,            gallons proof spirit;
macerate, add water sufficient, and Yz pound of fine lump
sugar for every gallon of the cordial.




               22. CLOVE CORDIAL

   Take Y ol b. pound of cloves, bruised, i ounce pimento,
or allspice, 2 gallons proof spirit. Digest the mixture
12 hours in a gentle heat, and then draw off with a pretty
brisk fire. The water may be colored red, either by strong
tincture of cochineal, alkanet or corn poppy-flowers. It
may be dulcified at pleasure with refined sugar.
                   GIGGLE WATER                         21

            23. CORIANDER CORDIALi
  5^ pound coriander seeds,    ounce of caraways, and
the peel and juice of  orange to every gallon of proof
spirit.


               24. GINGER CORDIAL
  Pick I pound of large white currants from their stalks,
lay them in a basin, and strew over them the rind of an
orange and a lemon cut very thin, or      teaspoonful of
essence of lemon, and i ounce and one-half of the best
ground ginger, and i quart of good whiskey. Let all lie
for 24 hours. If it tastes strong of the ginger, then strain
it; if not, let it lie for 12 hours longer. To every quart
of strained juice add i pound of loaf sugar pounded.
When the sugar is quite dissolved, and the liquor appears
clear, bottle it. This cordial is also extremely good made
with raspberries instead of currants.



               25. LEMON CORDIAL
  Pare off very thin the yellow rind of some fine lemons.
Cut the lemons in half and squeeze out the juice. To
each pint of the juice allow 3/2 pound of loaf sugar. Mix
the juice, the peel, and the sugar together. Cover it and
let it set 24 hours. Then mix it with an equal quantity
of white brandy. Put it into a jug, and let it set a month.
Then strain through a linen bag and afterward through
blotting-paper before you bottle it.
 22                  GIGGLE WATER

             26. LIME JUICE CORDIAL
  Lime juice cordial that will keep good for any length
of time may be made as follows: 6 pounds sugar, 4 pints
water, 4 ounces citric acid, ^ ounce boric acid. Dissolve'
by the aid of a gentle heat, and when cold add 60 ounces
refined lime juice, 4 ounces tincture of lemon peel, water
to make up 2 gallons.



27. STRAWBERRY OR RASPBERRY CORDIAL
   Sugar down the berries overnight, using more sugar
than you would for the table, about half as much agqjji.
In the morning lay them in a hair sieve over the basin;
let them remain imtil evening, so as to thoroughly drain.
Then put the juice in a thick flannel bag; let it drain
all night, being careful not to squeeze it, as that takes
out the brightness and clearness. All this should be done
in a cool cellar, or it will be apt to sour. Add brandy in
the proportion of       the quantity of juice, and as much
more sugar as the taste demands. Bottle it tightly. It will
keep 6 to 8 years, and is better at last than at first.



             28. WHISKEY CORDIAL
  Take i ounce of cinnamon, i ounce of ginger, i ounce
of coriander seed,    ounce of mace,      ounce of cloves,
Yi ounce of cubebs. Add 3 gallons of proof spirit and
2Y2 quarts of water. Now tie up        ounces of English
                  GIGGLE WATER                         23

saffron, I pound of raisins (stoned), i pound dates;
3 ounces licorice root. Let these stand 12 hours in 2)^
quarts of water; strain, and add it to the above. Dulcify
the whole with fine sugar.




       29. ANISETTE DE BOURDEAUX
  Take 9 ounces sugar, 6 drops aniseed. Rub them to
gether and add, by degrees, 2pints spirits of wine, 4 pints
water. Filter.




           30. CREME DES BARBADOES
  Take l dozen middling sized lemons, 3 large citrons,
14 pounds loaf sugar, K POund fresh balm leaves, 5
quarts spirits of wine, 7 quarts of water. Cut lemons
and citrons in thin slices and put them into a cask, pour
upon them the spirit of wine, bung down close, and let
it stand 10 days or a fortnight; then break the sugar,
and boil it for hour in the water, skimrning it fre
quently. Then chop the balm leaves, put them into a larg'e
pan, and pour upon them the boiling liquor, and let it
 stand till quite cold; then strain it through a lawn sieve,
 and put it to the spirits, etc., in the cask. Bung down
 close, and in a fortnight draw it off. Strain it through a
 jelly-bag and let remain to fine; then bottle it.
 24                  GIGGLE WATER
      31. CREME DE NOYAU DE MARTINIQUE
     Take 20 pounds of loaf sugar, 3 gallons of spirit of
  wine, 3 pints of orange-flower water,  pounds of bitter
 almonds, 2 drams of essence of lemon, 4^ gallons of
 water. The produce will exceed 8 gallons. Put 2 pounds
 of the loaf sugar into a jug or can, pour upon it the
 essence of lemon, and i quart of the spirit of wine. Stir
 till the sugar is dissolved, and the essence completely
 incorporated. Bruise the almonds and put them into a 4
 gallon stone bottle or cask, add the remainder of the spirit
of wine, and the mixture from the jug or can. Let it
stand a week or ten days, shaking it frequently. Then add
the remainder of the sugar, and boil it in the 4>^ gallons
of water for ^ of an hour, taking off the scum as it rises.
When cold, put in a cask; add the spirit, almonds, etc.,
from the stone bottle, and lastly the orange-water. Bung
it down close and let it stand 3 weeks or a month; then
strain it off in a jelly-bag, and when fine, bottle it off.
When the pink is wanted, add cochineal, in powder, at
the rate of ^ dram or two scruples to i quart.



32. CREME D'ORANGE OF SUPERIOR FLAVOR
   Take i dozen middling sized oranges, 1% pints orange-
flower water, 6 pounds loaf sugar, 2^ quarts spirit of
wine, ^ ounce tincture of saffron, 4^ quarts water. Cut
the oranges in slices, put them in a cask, add the spirit
and orange-flower water, let it stand a fortnight. Then boil
the sugar in the water for     hour, pour it out, and let it
m"



                         GIGGLE WATER                         25

     stand till cold; then add it to the mixture in the cask;
     and put in the tincture of saffron. Let it remain a fort
     night longer; then strain, and proceed as directed in the
     recipe for Creme de Barbadoes, and a very fine cordial
     will be produced.


                  33. EAU DE BARBADOES
       Take i ounce of fresh orange peel, 4 ounces of fresh
     lemon peel, i dram coriander, 4 pints proof spirit. Distill
     in a bath heat, and add white sugar in powder.



                   34. EAU DE BIGARADE
       Take the outer or yellow part of the peels of seven
     bigarades (a kind of orange), ^ ounce of nutmegs,
     ounce of mace,      gallon of fine proof spirit, i quart of
     water. Digest all these together two days in a close vessel,
     after which draw off a gallon with a gentle fire, and
     dulcify with fine sugar.



                         35. EAU DEVINE
       Take     gallon of spirit of wine,  dram essence of
     lemons and yi dram essence of bergamot. Distill in a
     bath heat, add 2 pounds sugar, dissolved in i gallon of
     pure water, and lastly 2J/2 ounces of orange-flower
     water.
26                 GIGGLE WATER
               36. ELEPHANT'S MILK
  Take 2 ounces gum benzoin, i pint spirit of wine, 2>^
pints boiling water. When cold, strain and add 1^2 pounds
sugar.




               37. HUILE DE VENUS
 ' Take 6 ounces of flowers of wild carrot, picked, 10
pints spirit of wine. Distill in a bath heat. To the spirit
add as much syrup of Capillaire; it may be colored with
cochineal.




                  38. LIGNODELLA
  Take the thin peel of 3 oranges and 3 lemons; steep
them in Yz gallon of brandy or rum, close stopped for
2 or 3 days. Then take 3 quarts of water and i >4 pounds
of loaf sugar clarified with the whites of 2 eggs. Let it
boil 54 hour, then strain it through a fine sieve, and let
it stand till cold; strain the brandy with the peels, add
the juice of 3 oranges and 5 lemons to each gallon. Keep
it close stopped up 5 weeks, then bottle it.




                  39. MARASCHINO
  I gallon proof whiskey, 2 quarts of water, dissolve 4
pounds of sugar, 54 dram oil of bergamot, ^ dram oil
                    GIGGLE WATER                         27
of doves, 2 drops oil of dnnamon, ^ ounce of nutmegs,
bruised, 5 ounces of orange peel, .1 ounce of bitter al
monds, bruised,     dram oil of lemon. Dissolve the oil in
alcohol; color with cochineal and burnt sugar.




        40. MARASQUIN DE GROSEILLES
   Take 8)4 pounds of gooseberries, quite ripe, i pound
black cherry leaves. Bruise and ferment; distill and rec
tify the spirits. To each pint of this spirit add as much
distilled water, and i pound of sugar.




                      41. NECTAR
   Take 3 gallons of red ratafia,       ounce of cassia-oil,
and an equal quantity of the oil of caraway seeds. Dis
solve in a little spirit of wine, and make up with orange
wine so as to fill up the jug. Sweeten, if wanted, by add
ing a small lump of sugar in the glass.



                      42. NOYAU
   Take 1^2 gallons of French brandy; i in 5, 6 ounces
of the best French prunes, 2 ounces of celery, 3 ounces of
the kernels of apricots, nectarines, and peaches, and i
ounce of bitter almonds, all gently bruised, 2 penny
weights of essence of lemon peel,         pounds of loaf
28                   GIGGLE WATER

sugar. Let the whole stand lO days or a fortnight. Then
draw off, and add to the clear noyau as much rose-water
as will make up to 2 gallons.



                      43. RATAFIA
   This is a liquor prepared from different kinds of fruits,
and is of different colors, according to the fruits made
use of. These fruits should be gathered when in their
greatest perfection, and the largest and most beautiful of
them chosen for the purpose. The following is the method
for making red ratafia, fine and soft: Take 12 pounds of
the black-heart cherries, 2 pounds black cherries,
pounds raspberries,       pounds strawberries. Pick the
fruit from their stalks, and bruise them, in which state
let them continue 12 hours; then press out the juice, and
to every pint of it add      pound of sugar. When the
sugar is dissolved, run the whole through the filtering-
bag, and add to it 3 pints of proof spirit. Then take 2
ounces of cinnamon, 2 ounces mace, i dram cloves. Bruise
these spices, put them into an alembic with Yt. gallon of
proof spirit and i quart of water, and draw off a gallon
with a brisk fire. Add as much of the spicy spirit to the
red ratafia as will render it agreeable; about Ya is the
usual proportion.


                    44. RATAFIA NO. 2
  Ratafia may be made with the juice of any fruit. Take
6 quarts cherry juice and 2 pounds sugar, which you dis-
                       GIGGLE WATER                       29
 solve in the juice. Steep in 5 quarts brandy 10 days, i
 dram cinnamon, 12 cloves, 8 ounces peach leaves, 4 ounces
 bruised cherry kernels. Filter, mix both liquids, and filter
 again.



                  45. RATAFIA NO. 3
   Take 4 ounces of nutmegs, 5 pounds of bitter almonds,
9 pounds Lisbon sugar, 5 grains ambergris. Infuse these
ingredients 3 days in 5 gallons of proof spirit, and filter
it through a flannel bag for use. The nutmegs and bitter
almonds must be bruised, and the ambergris rubbed with
the Lisbon sugar in a marble mortar, before they are in
fused in the spirit.



             46. RATAFIA D'ANGELIQUE
   Take Yz dram of angelica seed, 2 ounces stalks of
angelica, 2 ounces bitter almonds, blanched, 6 pints proof
spirit, I pound white sugar. Digest, strain and filter.




           47. RATAFIA BE BRON BE NOIX
  Take 60 young walnuts whose shells are not yet hard
ened, 4 pints brandy, 12 ounces sugar, 15 grains mace,
15 grains cinnamon, 15 grains cloves. Digest for 2 to 3
months, press out the liquor, filter and keep it for 2 to
3 years.
30                  GIGGLE WATER
                48. RATAFIA DE CAFE
  Take Yt. pound of roasted coffee, ground, 2 quarts
proof spirit, 10 ounces sugar. Digest for a week.


               49. RATAFIA DE CASSIS
  Take 3 pounds of ripe black currants,      dram cloves,
Y^ dram cinnamon, 9 pints proof spirit,     pounds sugar.
Digest for a fortnight.


             50. RATAFIA DES CERISES
  Take 4 pounds morello cherries, with their kernels
bruised, 4 pints proof spirit. Digest for a month, strain
with expression, and then add ^ pound of sugar.



            51. RATAFIA DE CHOCOLAT
 Take i ounce Curagoa cocoanuts rested, Yz pouiid
West India cocoanuts, roasted, i gallon proof spirit.
Digest for a fortnight, strain, and then add        pounds
sugar, 30 drops tincture of vanilla.



            52. DRY OR SHARP RATAFIA
     Take 15 pounds of cherries, 15 pounds of gooseberries,
2,Y2 pounds mulberries, 5 pounds raspberries. Pick all
                   GIGGLE WATER                          31
these fruits clean from their stalks, etc., bruise them, and
let them stand 12 hours, but do not suffer them to fer
ment. Press out the juice, and to every pint add 3 ounces
of sugar. When the sugar is dissolved, run it through
the filtering-bag, and to every 5 pints of liquor add 4
pints of proof spirit, together with the same proportion
of spirit drawn from spices.




          53. RATAFIA DE GRENOBER
  Take 2 pounds of small wild black cherries, with their
kernels bruised, i gallon proof spirit. Digest for a month,
strain, and add 2 pounds of sugar. A little citron peel
may also be added at pleasure.




             54. RATAFIA DE NOYAU
  Take of peach or apricot kernels, with their shells
bruised, in ntunber 120, 4 pints proof spirit, 10 ounces
sugar. Some reduce the spirit of wine to proof with the
juice of apricots or peaches, to make the liquor.




    55. RATAFIA D'ECORCES D'ORANGES
  Take 2 ounces of fresh peel of Seville oranges,
gallon proof spirit, potmd sugar. Digest for 6 hours.
32                GIGGLE WATER
         56 RATAFIA DE THURO D'ORANGE

  Take 2 p>ounds of fresh flowers of orange-tree, i gallon
proof spirit,    pounds of sugar. Digest for 6 hours-



           57. RATAFIA A LA VIOLETTE
  Take 2 drams Florentine orris root, i ounce archil, 4
pints spirit of wine. Digest, strain, and add 4 pounds
sugar.




             58. USQUEBAUGH, NO. i
  Usquebaugh is a strong compound liquor, chiefly taken
by the dram. It is made in the highest perfection at Drog-
heda in Ireland. The following are the ingredients: Take
2 quarts of best brandy, yi pound raisins, stoned,
ounce nutmegs,       ounce cardamoms, Ya ounce saffron,
rind of     Seville orange,    pound brown sugar candy.
Shake these well every day for at least 14 days, and it
will at the expiration of that time be ready to be fined
for use.




  59. GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING
                     CORDIALS

  The materials employed in the preparation of cordials
are rain or distilled water, white sugar and clean, per-
                   GIGGLE WATER                          33
fectly flavorless spirit. To these may be added the sub
stances from which the flavor and aroma are extracted,
which distinguish and give character to the particular
cordial to be made, and also the articles employed as
"finings" when artificial clarification is had recourse to.
In the preparation or compounding of cordials, one of the
first objects which engages the operator's attention is the
production of an alcoholic solution of the aromatic prin
ciples which are to give them their peculiar aroma and
flavor. This is done either by simple infusion or macera
tion, or by maceration and subsequent distillation, or by
flavoring the spirit with essential oils. In the preparation
of liqueurs, glycerine has been found to be admirably
adapted for preserving the characteristic flavors of those
compounds, and it has consequently become the great
favorite of this class of manufactures.




                    60. ANISETTE

  To 30 gallons French proof spirit add 4 ounces essence
of star anise dissolved in 95 per cent alcohol and 105
gallons syrup of 10° Baume. Stir for ^ an hour, settle
and filter.




              61. CHAMPION ANISETTE

  Put into a barrel 30 gallons 85 per cent alcohol. Add
4 ounces essence of anise seed, which dissolve in 2 gal-




                                 ''' i- '*!'
                             -niVliiM^llil
34                 GIGGLE WATER
Ions 95 per cent, alcohol. Add 103 gallons sugar S)rrup
10° Baume. Stir 15 minutes and let it rest 4 or 5 ^ys,
then filter. Add 2 or 3 sheets of filtering paper.



            62. ANISE SEED CORDIAL

  Dissolve 3 drachms of oil of anise seed in 2^ gallons
of 95 per cent alcohol; then add 2^ gallons of fine white
syrup, mixed with 4^ gallons of water. Stir and filter.



             63. CARAWAY CORDIAL
  Dissolve 6 drachms oil of caraway in 3 gallons 95 per
cent alcohol; add a syrup made of 42 pounds of sugar
and 494 gallons of water. Filter.




       64. CORDIALS BY DISTILLATION
  The solid ingredients should be coarsely pounded or
bruised before digestion in the spirit, and this should be
done immediately before putting them into the cask or
vat; as, after they are bruised, they rapidly lose their
aromatic properties by exposure to the air. The practice
of drying the ingredients before pounding them, adopted
by some workmen for the mere sake of lessening the
labor, cannot be too much avoided, as the least exposure
                   GIGGLE WATER                         35

to heat tends to lessen their aromatic properties, which
are very volatile. The length of time the ingredients
should be digested, in the spirit should never be less than
3 or 4 days, but a longer period is preferable when dis
tillation is not employed. In either case the time allowed
for digestion may be advantageously extended to lo or
15 days, and frequent agitation should be had recourse to.




             65.. TO MAKE ABSINTHE
  Put the following ingredients into a cask:—pounds
large absinthe, 2 potmds small absinthe, zyi pounds long
fennel, 2^/2 pounds star anise (breaking the star only),
2)4 pounds green anise seed, 6 oimces coriander seed, and
I pound hyssop; moisten the whole with a little water,
allowing it time to soften and swell; then add 12 gallons
95 per cent alcohol, and steep for 2 or 3 days. Color the
product, by steeping in it for 10 or 15 days )4 pound
mint leaves, )4 pound melissa leaves, )4 pound small
absinthe, 2 ounces citron peel, and J4 pound bruised
liquorice root. Strain and filter.




66. FINING WITH ISINGLASS FOR CORDIALS

   Take half an ounce of the best isinglass, and dissolve
it over a gentle fire, in a pint of water slightly seasoned
36                 GIGGLE WATER
with good vinegar, or three teaspoonfuls of lemon juice.
Beat it from time to time, adding a little of the seasoned
water. When you obtain a complete solution, gradually
add the foaming liquid to the cordial, stirring all the
while. Then stir for 15 minutes after it is all added, and
let it rest for 3 days; by that time the cordial will be
bright and clear. The above quantity is sufficient to clarify
25 gallons of cordial.


67. TO MAKE SYRUPS FOR THE MANUFAC
        TURE OF CORDIALS & LIQUORS
   Take i pint of water to every 2 pounds of sugar used;
this proportion will make a fine syrup, about 32° Baume,
but the manufacturer often requires weaker syrups when
preparing inferior cordials, and the easiest method of
ascertaining the proper point of concentration is by the
use of that variety of Baume's hydrometer, called a sac-
charometer. Beat up the whites of 2 eggs (if you are
clarifying about 10 pounds of sugar, or mix in this pro
portion) until it is very frothy, and then mix in with the
rest.




                68. KING'S CORDIAL

  Dissolve in     pint of proof spirits, drachms each
of the oils of caraway and cinnamon; extract the stones
from 3 pounds of black clierries, and mash the fruit in
a pan; grate i nutmeg; take 2 quarts of Madeira wine,
2 quarts of brandy, and i gallon of syrup; mix all to
gether, and color with red saunders wood.
                      GIGGLE WATER                                            37

            69. BLACKBERRY CORDIAL
  To I quart blackberry juice, add i pound white sugar,
I tablespoonful each cloves, allspice, cinnamon and nut
meg. Boil all together 15 minutes, add a wine-glass of
whiskey, brandy or rum. Bottle while hot, cork tight and
seal. This is almost a specific in diarrhea. Dose is i wine-
glassful for an adult, half that quantity for a child; will
often cure diarrhea. It can be taken 3 or 4 times a day if
the case is severe.




                          i 'i hil cA'iiflfiiiUndL   J iVi II I'lliiit Iih'
HOME-MADE GIN
                .,'r • f                   •.' :
      ••• •"'      •'.       , V^ 1\. ••. y


       t' .'• ^ '• 1 . t\i      • V, ,. '••W!'

mtm
                           GIN


          70. IMITATION SCHIEDAM GIN
  Dissolve       drachms oil of juniper in sufficient 95
per cent alcohol to make a clear liquid; add it to 40 gal
lons French spirits 10 above proof, with 8 ounces orange
peel flavoring, i quart syrup, and 30 drops oil of sweet
fennel.


    71. IMITATION OLD TOM LONDON GIN
   Dissolve in i quart 95 per cent alcohol, i drachm oil
of coriander, I drachm oil of cedar, I/2 drachm oil of
hitter almonds, Yz drachm oil of angelica, and Yz drachm
oil of sweet fennel; add it to 40 gallons French spirit 10
above proof, with i pint orange-flower water, i quart
syrup and i drachm oil of juniper dissolved in sufficient
95 per cent alcohol to be clear.



     72. TO CLARIFY GIN OR CORDIALS
   Pulverize i pound ordinary crystals of alum, divide
into 12 equal portions, and put up in blue papers marked
No. I. Next take 6 ounces carbonate (the ordinary ses-
quicarbonate) of soda, divide it into 12 parts and put
                             41
42                  GIGGLE WATER
them up in white papers marked No. 2. In place of the
6 ounces of carbonate of soda, 4 ounces dry salt of tartar
may be substituted, but the white papers containing this
latter substance must be kept in a dry, well corked bottle
or jar. To clarify 30 to 36 gallons gin, dissolve the con
tents of one of the blue papers, as prepared above in
about a pint of hot water, and stir it into the liquor
thoroughly. Then dissolve the contents of one of the white
papers in about     pint hot water, and stir well into the
liquor; bung the cask close, and let the whole remain till
the next day.

        73. TO BLANCH GIN OR OTHER
                WHITE LIQUOR
   By using double the quantity of finings, that is, 2 of
each of the powders as laid down in the foregoing re
ceipt, the liquor will be blanched as well as clarified. It is
well to recollect, however, that the more finings are
employed, the greater the risk of injuring the liquor,
which may have a tendency to become flat when "on
draught."
                           o-c>-o*



                74. FININGS FOR GIN
   To 100 gallons gin, take 4 ounces roche alum, and put
it into I pint of pure water; boil it until it is dissolved,
then gradually add 4 ounces salts of tartar; when nearly
cold, put it into the gin, and stir it well with a staff for
10 minutes. The liquor must not be covered until it is
fine; when this is accomplished, cover it up tight to pre
vent it from losing its strength.
                  GIGGLE WATER                         43

          75. TO REMOVE THE BLACKNESS
                      FROM GIN

  Some gin has a particular blackness; to remove which,
take I ounce pulverized chalk and 2 or 3 ounces isinglass,
dissolved; put this into the gin and it will become trans
parent. The above is enough for 50 gallons. The blackness
which gin sometimes contracts by coming in contact with
iron, may also be carried down by putting a solution of
2 ounces isinglass and i quart skimmed milk into the
spirit.
V ,   ' J


                       'm



                        'r-




            :k'. •."
           HOW TO MIX ALL KINDS

                          OF



                   HOME-MADE


    PLAIN AND FANCY DRINKS

Containing clear and reliable directions for mixing all
 the beverages used in the United States together
    with the most popular British, German, Ital
     ian, Russian, and Spanish recipes; em
        bracing punches, juleps, cobblers
             etc., in endless variety.




                               iriTrtrfh i
 '      • •


• v'.f ' -
yi.
      r




 y




                           MIXED DRINKS


                        76. BRANDY COCKTAIL
               (Use small bar-glass)
               Take 3 or 4 dashes of gum syrup
               2 dashes of bitters (Boker's or Angostura)
               I wine-glass of brandy
               I or 2 dashes of Curagoa
          Fill the glass one-third full of shaved ice, shake up well
          and strain into a cocktail glass. Twist a small piece of
          lemon rind in it and serve.




               78. IMPROVED BRANDY COCKTAIL
              (Use small bar-glass)
              Take 2 dashes Boker's or Angostura Bitters
              2 dashes Maraschino
              3 dashes gum syrup
              I dash Absinthe
               I small piece of the yellow rind of a lemon,
                   twisted to express the oil
               I small wine-glass of brandy.
          Fill the glass one-third full of shaved ice, shake well
          and strain into a fancy cocktail glass, put the lemon
                                     47
48                 GIGGLE WATER

peel in the glass and serve. The flavor is improved by
moistening the edge of the cocktail glass with a piece
of lemon.




             79. WHISKEY COCKTAIL
     (Use small bar-glass)
     Take 3 or 4 dashes of gum syrup
     2 dashes of bitters (Boker's)
     I wine-glass of whiskey
Fill one-third full of fine ice; shake and strain in a fancy
red wine-glass. Put in a piece of twisted lemon peel in
the glass and serve.




                 80. GIN COCKTAIL

     (Use small bar-glass)
     Take 3 or 4 dashes of gum syrup
     2 dashes of bitters (Boker's)
     I wine-glass of Holland gin
     I or 2 dashes of Curagoa
Fill the glass one-third full of shaved ice, and strain into
a cocktail glass. Twist a small piece of lemon peel, place it
in the glass and serve.
                    GIGGLE WATER                          49
       8i. FANCY VERMOUTH COCKTAIL
     (Use small bar-glass)
     Take 2 dashes Angostura bitters
     2 dashes Maraschino
     I wine-glass of Vermouth
     I quarter slice of lemon
Fill the glass one-quarter full of shaved ice, shake well
and strain into a cocktail glass; garnish with the lemon.



             82. ABSINTHE COCKTAIL

     (Use small bar-glass)
     Take 2 dashes of Anisette
     I dash of Angostura bitters
    I pony-glass of Absinthe
Pour about one wine-glass of water into the tumbler in
a small stream from the ice pitcher, or preferably from
an absinthe glass. Shake up very thoroughly with ice, and
strain into a claret glass.



            83. JAPANESE COCKTAIL
    (Use small bar-glass)
    Take i tablespoonful of orgeat syrup
    2 dashes of Boker's bitters
      I wine-glass of brandy
      I or 2 pieces of lemon peel
Fill the tumbler one-third with ice, stir well with a spooq.
and strain into a cocktail glass.
50                  GIGGLE WATER
               84. JERSEY COCKTAIL
     (Use large bar-glass)
     Take i teaspoonful of fine white sugar
     2 dashes of bitters
     3 or 4 lumps of ice.
Fill tumbler with cider, and mix well with a spoon and re
move the ice before serving.


           85. MANHATTAN COCKTAIL
     (Use small bar-glass)
     Take 2 dashes of Curagoa or Maraschino
     I pony of rye whiskey
     1 wine-glass of Vermouth
     3 dashes of Boker's bitters
     2 small lumps of ice
Shake up well, and strain into a claret glass. Put a quarter
of a slice of lemon in the glass and serve. If the customer
prefers it very sweet use also two dashes of gum syrup.
                                                               •i
            86. SARATOGA COCKTAIL

     (Use small bar-glass)
     Take 2 dashes Angostura bitters
     I pony of brandy
     I pony of whiskey
     I pony of vermouth
Shake up well with two small lumps of ice; strain into a
claret glass, and serve with a quarter of a slice of lemon.
                   GIGGLE WATER                          51
             87. MARTINEZ COCKTAIL
     (Use small bar-glass)
     Take i dash of Boker's bitters
     2 dashes of Maraschino
     I pony of Old Tom gin
     1 wine-glass of vermouth
     2 small lumps of ice
Shake up thoroughly, and strain into a large cocktail
glass. Put a quarter of a slice of lemon in the glass and
serve. If the guest prefers it very sweet add two dashes
of gum syrup.


                88. WHISKEY DAISY

      (Use small bar-glass)
     Take 3 dashes gum syrup
     2 dashes Orgeat syrup
     The juice of half a small lemon
     I wine-glass of Bourbon, or rye whiskey
Fill one glass one-third full of shaved ice. Shake well,
strain into a large cocktail glass, and fill up with Seltzer
or Apollinaris water.


                    89. GIN DAISY
    (Use small-bar glass)
    Take 3 or 4 dashes of orgeat, or gum syrup
    3 dashes of Maraschino
    The juice of half a small lemon
    I wine-glass of Holland gin
52                 GIGGLE WATER

Fill glass one-third full of shaved ice. Shake well, strain
into a large cocktciil glass, and fill up with Seltzer or
Apollinaris water.




                   90. MINT JULEP
     (Use large bar-glass)
     Take i tablespoon ful of white pulverized sugar
     2.yz tablespoonfuls of water, mix well with a spoon
     \y2 wine-glasses full of brandy
Take three or four sprigs of fresh mint, and press them
well in the sugar and water, until the flavor of the mint is
extracted; add the brandy, and fill the glass with fine
shaved ice, then draw out the sprigs of mint and insert
them in the ice with the stems downward, so that the
leaves will be above, in the shape of a bouquet; arrange
the berries, and small pieces of sliced orange on top in a
tasty manner, dash with Jamaica rum, and serve with a
straw.




                    91. GIN JULEP
    (Use large bar-glass)
  The gin julep is made with the same ingredients as the
mint julep, omitting the fancy fixings.
                       GIGGLE WATER                          53
                    92. WHISKEY JULEP
         (Use large bar-glass)
    The whiskey julep is made the same as the mint julep,
    omitting all fruits and berries.


                   93. PINEAPPLE JULEP
         (For a party of five)
         Take the juice of two oranges
         I gill of rasperry syrup
         I gill of Maraschino
          I gill of Old Tom gin
          I quart bottle Sparkling Moselle
          I ripe pineapple, peeled, sliced and cut up
    Put all the materials in a glass bowl; ice, and serve in
    fiat glasses ornamented with berries in season.


                    94. BRANDY SMASH
         (Use small bar-glass)
        Take i teaspoonful of white sugar
S       2 tablespoonfuls of water
        3 or 4 sprigs of tender mint
        I wine-glass full of brandy
    Press the mint in the sugar and water to extract the flavor,
    add the brandy, and fill the glass two-thirds full of shaved
    ice. Stir thoroughly and ornament with half a slice of
    orange, and a few fresh sprigs of mint. Serve with a
    straw.



                                                                   •




                                                                   •f.'i
54                GIGGLE WATER
                     95. GIN SMASH
     (Use small bar-glass)
     Take I teaspoonful of fine white sugar
     2 teaspoonfuls of water
     I wine-glass of gin
     3 or 4 sprigs of tender mint
Put the mint in the glass, then the sugar and water. Mash
the mint to extract the flavor, add the gin, and fill up
the glass with shaved ice. Stir up well, and ornament with
two or three fresh sprigs of mint.


               96. WHISKEY SMASH
    (Use small bar-glass)
    Take i teaspoonful of fine white sugar
    2 teaspoonfuls of water
    3 or 4 sprigs of young mint
    I vnne-glass of whiskey
Proceed exactly as directed in the last recipe


                  97. BRANDY FIX
     (Use small bar-glass)
     Take 1 large teaspoonful of fine white sugar dis
       solved in a    little water
     The juice of a quarter of a lemon
     3 dashes of Curagoa
     I wine-glass of brandy
Fill the glass two-thirds full of shaved ice. Stir well
and ornament the top with slices of lemon or lime-
                   GIGGLE WATER                         55
                     98. GIN FIX
    (Use small bar-glass)
    Take i large teaspoonful of powdered white sugar
       dissolved in a little water
     2 dashes of Raspberry syrup
     The juice of a quarter of a lemon
     I wine-glass of Holland gin
Fill up the glass two-thirds full of sliaved ice, stir thor
oughly, and ornament the top with berries in season. Old
Tom gin may be used if preferred.

                   99. WHISKEY FIX
     (Use small bar-glass)
     Take i large teaspoonful of powdered white sugar,
       dissolved in a little water
     The juice of lialf a lemon
     I wine-glass of Bourbon or rye whiskey
Fill up the glass about two-thirds full of shaved ice, stir
well, and ornament the top of the glass as directed in
the last recipe.

               100. SHERRY COBBLER
     (Use large bar-glass)
     Take T tablespoonful of fine white sugar
     1 slice of orange, cut up into quarters
     2 small pieces of pineapple
Fill the glass nearly full of shaved ice, then fill it up
with sherry wine. Shake up, ornament the top with
berries in season, and serve with a straw.




                                                                    t •'   ji''?



                                                              |M|     *•
                                                              9
                                                          t




S6                GIGGLE WATER
           loi. CHAMPAGNE COBBLER
     (use bottle of wine to four large bar-glasses)
     Take i teaspoonful of sugar
     I piece each of orange and lemon peel
Fill the tumbler one-third full of shaved ice, and fill
balance with wine, ornament in a tasty manner with ber
ries in season. Serve with straws.



             102. CATAWBA COBBLER
     (Use small bar-glass)
     Take i teaspoonful of fine white sugar, dissolved
       in a little water
     I slice of orange cut into quarters
Fill the glass half full of shaved ice, then fill it up
with Catawba wine. Ornament the top with berries
in season, and serve with a straw.



              103. CLARET COBBLER
     (Use large bar-glass)
  This drink is made the same way as the Catawba
cobbler, using Claret wine instead of Catawba.


            104. SAUTERNE COBBLER
     (Use large bar-glass)
  This is the same as Catawba cobbler, using Sauteme
instead of a Catawba.
                    GIGGLE WATER                        57

             105. WHISKEY COBBLER
     Take 1^/2 wine-glass of whiskey
     I teaspoonful of white sugar dissolved in a little
         water
     I slice of orange cut into quarters
     I dash of Maraschino
Fill the tumbler with shaved ice, shake up thoroughly,          •*1
ornament with berries, and serve with a straw.
                                                              'A
                                                              • ''ji




                    106. GIN SOUR

     (Use small bar-glass)
     Take i large teaspoonful of white sugar dissolved
         in a little Seltzer or Apollinaris water
    2 or 3 dashes of lemon juice
    I wine-glass of Holland or Old Tom gin
Fill the glass full of shaved ice, shake up, and strain
into a claret glass. Dress the top with orange, or pine
apple and berries


                 107. WHISKEY SOUR
     (Use small bar-glass)
    Take i large teaspoonful of powdered white sugar,
       dissolved in a little Seltzer or Apollinaris water
    The juice of half a small lemon
    I wine-glass of Bourbon or rye whiskey
Fill the glass full of shaved ice, shake up and strain into
a claret glass. Ornament with berries.
 58                  GIGGLE WATER
                  108. BRANDY SOUR
       (Use small bar-glass)
       Take i large teaspoonful of powdered white sugar,
           dissolved in a little Apollinaris or Seltzer water
      The juice of half a lemon
      I dash of Curagoa
     I wine-glass of Brandy
Fill the glass with shaved ice, shake, and strain into a
claret glass. Ornament with orange and berries.


                     109. EGG SOUR
      (Use small bar-glass)
      Take i teaspoonful of powdered white sugar
      3 dashes of lemon juice
      I pony of Curagoa
      I pony of brandy
      1 egg
      2 or 3 small lumps of ice
Shake up well, and remove the ice before serving.


                 no. APPLE TODDY
      (Use medium bar-glass)
      Take i large teaspoonful of fine white sugar dis
          solved in a little boiling hot water
      I wine-glass of cider brandy (apple jack)
         of a baked apple
Fill the glass two-thirds full of boiling water, stir up
and grate a little nutmeg on top. Serve with a spoon.
                     GIGGLE WATER                        59
           III. COLD BRANDY TODDY

     (Use small bar-glass)
     Take I teaspoonful of fine white sugar
     Yz wine-glass of water
     I wine-glass of brandy
     I lump of ice
Dissolve the sugar in the water, add the brandy and ice,
stir with a spoon.




            112. HOT BRANDY TODDY

    (Use small bar-glass)
    Take i teaspoonful of fine white sugar
    I wine-glass of brandy
Dissolve the sugar in a little boiling water, add the brandy
and pour boiling water into the glass until it is two-
thirds full. Grate a little nutmeg on top.




              113. COLD GIN TODDY
    (Use small bar-glass)
    Take i teaspoonful of powdered white sugar
    Yz wine-glass of water
    I wine-glass of gin
     I lump of ice
Dissolve the sugar in the water, add the brandy and
ice, and stir with a spoon.
6o                      GIGGLE WATER

                  114. HOT GIN TODDY
        (Use small bar-glass)
        Take i teaspoonful of powdered white sugar
        I wine-glass of Holland, or Old Tom gin (as pre
             ferred)
Dissolve the sugar in boiling water, add the gin, and
pour boiling water into the glass until it is two-thirds
full.



             115. COLD WHISKEY TODDY
        (Use small bar-glass)
        Take i teaspoonful of fine white sugar
        I wine-glass of Bourbon, or rye whiskey
        I lump of ice
Dissolve the sugar in the water, add the whiskey and
ice, and stir with a spoon.
  To make HOT WHISKEY TODDY, dissolve the
sugar in boiling water, omit the ice, and pour boiling
water into the glass, imtil it is two-thirds hot



         116. COLD IRISH WHISKEY TODDY

        (Use small bar-glass)
        Take i teaspoonful of fine white sugar
        1 wine-glass of Kinahan's L.L. or Jamieson's
            whiskey
        2 wine-glasses of water
        I lump of ice
                     GIGGLE WATER                      6i

 Dissolve the sugar in the water, add the whiskey and
 ice, and stir with a spoon. This is a delicious drink if
 made with either of the above brands of whiskey, pref
 erably the first.




                     117. EGG NOGG
     (Use large bar-glass)
     Take i large teaspoonful of powdered white sugar
      I fresh egg
         wine-glass of brandy
     Yi wine-glass of Santa Cruz rum
     A little shaved ice
Fill the glass with rich milk and shake up the ingredients
until they are thoroughly mixed. Pour the mixture into
a goblet excluding the ice, and grate a little nutmeg on
top. This may be made by using a wine-glass of either
of the above liquors, instead of both combined. Every
well ordered bar should have a tin egg-nogg "shaker,"
which is a great aid in mixing tliis beverage.




                 118. HOT EGG NOGG

     (Use large bar-glass)
   This drink is very popular in California, and is made
in precisely the same manner as the cold egg nogg above,
except that you must use boiling water instead of ice.




                                                             A
                                                            1
 62                 GIGGLE WATER
               119. SHERRY EGG NOGG
       (Use large bar-glass)
      Take       teaspoonfuls of fine white sugar
      1 fresh egg
      2 or 3 lumps of ice
      2 wine-glasses of Sherry wine
Fill the glass with rich milk, shake up until the egg is
thoroughly mixed with the other ingredients. Strain the
mixture into a large goblet, excluding the ice, and grate
a little nutmeg on top.

      120. GENERAL HARRISON'S EGG NOGG

      (Use large bar-glass)
      Take lYz teaspoonfuls of sugar
     1 fresh egg
     2 or 3 small lumps of ice
Fill the tumbler with cider, and shake well
  This is a delicious drink, and was very popular on
the Mississippi River in old times. It is said to have
been General Harrison's favorite beverage.


                 121. WHISKEY FIZZ
      (Use medium bar-glass)
      Take i teaspoonful of fine white sugar
     I small lump of ice
     3 dashes of lemon juice
     I wine-glass of Bourbon or rye whiskey
Fill up the glass with Seltzer or Apollinaris water, stir
thoroughly and serve.
                   GIGGLE WATER                       63
                 122. BRANDY FIZZ

     (Use medium bar-glass)
     Take i teaspoonful of powdered white sugar
     3 dashes of lemon juice
     I wine-glass of brandy
     I small lump of ice
Fill up the glass with Apollinaris or Seltzer water, stir
thoroughly and serve.


                    123. GIN FIZZ
     (Use medium bar-glass)
     Take i teaspoonful of powdered white sugar
     3 dashes of lemon juice
     I wine-glass of Holland gin
     I small piece of ice
Fill up the glass with Apollinaris or Seltzer water, stir
thoroughly and serve.



                 124. SILVER FIZZ
    (Use large bar-glass)
    Take i tablespoonful of pulverized white sugar
    3 dashes of lemon or lime juice
    The white of one egg
    1 wine-glass of Old Tom gin
    2 or 3 small lumps of ice
Shake up thoroughly, strain into a medium bar-glass
and fill it up with Seltzer water.
64                 GIGGLE WATER
                  125. GOLDEN FIZZ
       (Use large bar-glass)
       Take i tablespoonful of fine white sugar
       3 dashes of lemon or lime juice
       The yolk of one egg
       1 wine-glass of Old Tom gin
       2 or 3 lumps of ice
Shake up thoroughly, strain into a medium bar-glass, and
fill it up with Seltzer water.


                 126. BRANDY SLING

     (Use small bar-glass)
     Take i small teaspoonful of powdered white sugar
     I wine-glass of water
     I small lump of ice
     I wine-glass of brandy
Dissolve the sugar in the water, add the brandy, and ice,
stir well with a spoon. Grate a little nutmeg on top, and
serve.




                   127. GIN SLING
     (Use small bar-glass)
     Take i small teaspoonful of fine white sugar
     I wine-glass of water
      I wine-glass of brandy
     I small lump of ice
Dissolve the sugar in the water, add the brandy and ice,
stir thoroughly with a spoon. Grate a little nutmeg on
top and serve.
                     GIGGLE WATER                         65 v.
                  128. HOT GIN SLING

       (Use medium bar-glass)
       Take I small teaspoonful of powdered white sugar
       I wine-glass of Holland gin
 Dissolve the sugar in a little boiling water, add the gin,
 fill the glass two-thirds full of boiling water. Grate a
 little nutmeg on top and serve.




                 129. WHISKEY SLING
      (Use small bar-glass)
      Take i small teaspoonful of powdered white sugar
      I wine-glass of water
      I wine-glass of Bourbon or rye whiskey
 Dissolve the sugar in the water, add the whiskey and
 ice, stir thoroughly with a spoon. Grate a little nutmeg
 on top, and serve.



              130. HOT WHISKEY SLING
      (Use medium bar-glass)
        Take i small teaspoonful of powdered sugar
         I wine-glass of Bourbon or rye whiskey
   Dissolve the sugar in a little hot water, add the whiskey,
<- and fill the glass two-thirds fuU of boiling water. Grate
   a little nutmeg on top, and serve.
66                  GIGGLE WATER

                 131. HOT SPICED RUM
      (Use medium bar-glass)
      Take i small teaspoonful of powdered white sugar
      I wine-glass of Jamaica rum
      I teaspoonful of spices (allspice, and cloves not
          ground)
     I piece of sweet butter, as large as half a chestnut
Dissolve the sugar in a little boiling water, add the rum,
spices and butter, and fill the glass two-thirds full of
boiling water.


                    132. HOT RUM
      (Use medium bar-glass)
      Take i small teaspoonful of powdered sugar
     » I wine-glass Jamaica rum
      I piece of sweet butter, as large as half a chestnut.
Dissolve the sugar in a little boiling water, add the rum
and butter, fill the glass two-thirds full of boiling water,
stir, grate a little nutmeg on top, and serve.



                  133. BLUE BLAZER
      (Use two silver-plated mugs)
      Take i small teaspoonful of powdered white sugar
          dissolved in i wine-glass of boiling water
      I wine-glass of Scotch whiskey
Put the whiskey and the boiling water in one mug, ignite
the liquid with fire, and while blazing mix both ingre-
                   GIGGLE WATER                        67
dients by pouring them four or five times from one mug
to the other. If well done this will liave the appearance
of a continued stream of liquid fire.
   The novice in mixing this beverage should be careful
not to scald himself. To become proficient in throAving
the liquid from one mug to the other, it will be neces
sary to practise for some time with cold water.




                134. TOM AND JERRY
     (Use punch-bowl for the mixture)
     Take 12 fresh eggs
     ^2 small bar-glass of Jamaica rum
     1J2 teaspoonfuls of ground cinnamon
     ^2 teaspoonful of ground cloves
        teaspoonful of ground allspice
     Sufficient fine white sugar
Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and the yolks
until they are thin as water, then mix together and add
the spice and rum, stir up thoroughly, and thicken \vith
sugar until the mixture attains the consistency of a
light batter.
 A larger or smaller quantity of this mixture may be
made by increasing or diminishing the proportions of
the ingredients given in the above recipe.
   N.B.—A teaspoonful of cream of tartar, or about as
much carbonate of soda as you can get on a dime, will
prevent the sugar from settling to the bottom of the
mixture.
68                  GIGGLE WATER

     135. HOW TO SERVE TOM AND JERRY
     (Use small bar-glass)
     Take i tablespoonful of the above mixture
     I wine-glass of brandy-
Fill the glass -with boiling -water, grate a little nutmeg on
top, and serve with a spoon.
  Adepts at the bar, serving Tom and Jerry sometimes
employ the following mixture:—one-half brandy, one-
quarter Jamaica rum, one-quarter Santa Cruz rum. For
convenience, these proportions are mixed and kept in a
bottle, and a wine-glassful is used to each tumbler of
Tom and Jerry, instead of brandy plain.



          136. TOM COLLINS WHISKEY
     (Use small bar-glass)
     Take 5 or 6 dashes of gum syrup
     Juice of a small lemon
     1 large wine-glass of whiskey
     2 or 3 lumps of ice
Shake up well and strain into a large bar-glass. Fill up
the glass with plain soda water and imbibe while it is
lively.


          137. TOM COLLINS BRANDY
     (Use large bar-glass)
  The same as Tom Collins Whiskey, substituting
brandy for whiskey.




                                                  '
                   GIGGLE WATER                        69
              138. TOM COLLINS GIN
    (Use large bar-glass)
  The same as Tom Collins Whiskey, substituting gin
for whiskey.

                                                                r,   .I.J
                                                             •.'i'.'a
             139. HOT BRANDY FLIP
      (Use large bar-glass)
      Take i teaspoonful of sugar
      I wine-glass of brandy
      Yolk of one egg
Dissolve the sugar in a little hot water, add the brandy
and egg, shake up thoroughly, pour into a medium bar-
glass, and fill it one-half full of boiling water. Grate a
little nutmeg on top, and serve.




                140. HOT RUM FLIP
     (Use large bar-glass)
  Same as Brandy Flip, substituting Jamaica rum instead
of brandy.



             141. HOT WHISKEY FLIP
    (Use large bar-glass)
  Same as Brandy Flip, substituting vdiiskey instead
of brandy.
70                  GIGGLE WATER
                  142. HOT GIN FLIP

     (Use large bar-glass)
  Same as Brandy Flip, substituting Holland gin instead
of brandy.



             143. COLD BRANDY FLIP
     (Use large bar-glass)
     Take i teaspoonful powdered sugar
     I wine-glass of brandy
     1/2 wine-glass of water
     1 fresh egg
     2 lumps of ice                                      ,
Dissolve the sugar in the water, add the brandy, egg and
ice, shake up thoroughly, strain into a small bar-glass.
Serve with a little nutmeg on top.




                144. COLD RUM FLIP
     (Use large bar-glass)
     Take one teaspoonful of powdered sugar, dissolved in
         a little water.
     I wine-glass of Jamaica rum
     1 fresh egg
     2 or 3 lumps of ice
Shake up thoroughly, strain in a medium glass, and
grate a little nutmeg on top.


                                                               A



                                                               If
                                                             IJI
                  GIGGLE WATER                      71

              145. COLD GIN FLIP
     (Use large bar-glass)
   Same as Cold Rum Flip, substituting Holland gin in
stead of Jamaica rum.

                                                          r':'lrtv5


           146. COLD WHISKEY FLIP
    (Use large bar-glass)
  Same as Rum Flip, substituting Bourbon or rye
whiskey instead of Jamaica rum.



              147. PORT WINE FLIP
    (Use large bar-glass)
    Take i small teaspoonful of powdered white sugar
    I large wine-glass of port wine
    1 fresh egg
    2 or 3 small lumps of ice
Break the egg into the glass, add the sugar, and lastly
the wine and ice. Shake up thoroughly and strain into
a medium sized goblet.



            148. SHERRY WINE FLIP
    (Use large bar-glass)
  This is made precisely as the Port Wine Flip, sub
stituting Sherry wine, instead of Port.
 72                  GIGGLE WATER

            149. PORT WINE SANGAREE
       (Use medium bar-glass)
      Take i claret-glass of Port wine
      Y2 teaspoonful of powdered white sugar
      2 or 3 small liunps of ice
Shake up well, strain into a small bar-glass, and serve
with a little grated nutmeg on top.

                            •o-oo




              150. SHERRY SANGAREE
      (Use medium bar-glass)
      Take i claret glass of Sherry wine
      Y2 teaspoonful of fine white sugar
      2 or 3 small lumps of ice
Shake up well, strain into a small bar-glass, serve with
a little grated nutmeg.




             151. BRANDY SANGAREE
      (Use medium, bar-glass)
      Take 5^ teaspoonful of fine white sugar dissolved
          in a little water                                        I
      I wine-glass of brandy
Fill the glass one-third of shaved ice, shake up well, strain      '
into a small glass and dash a little Port wine on top. Serve      :
with a little grated nutmeg.                                      J
                                                                •fi'
                    GIGGLE WATER                        73

                  152. GIN SANGAREE
     (Use medium bar-glass)
   This is made the same as Brandy Sangaree, substi
tuting Holland gin instead of brandy.




                 153. ALE SANGAREE
    (Use large bar-glass)
    Take i teaspoonful of fine white sugar dissolved
        in a wine glassful of water
Fill up the glass with ale, stir, and grate a little nutmeg
on top.




                    154. GIN PUNCH
    (Use large bar-glass)
    Take i tablespoonful of raspberry syrup
    I tablespoonful of powdered white sugar, dissolved
          in a   little Seltzer water
    1)4 wine-glasses of Holland gin
    Juice of half a small lemon
    I slice of orange (cut in quarters)
    I piece of pineapple
    I or 2 dashes of Maraschino
Fill the tumbler with shaved ice, shake well, and dress
the top with sliced lime and berries in season.




                                                              J
74                   GIGGLE WATER
        155. HOT IRISH WHISKEY PUNCH
     (Use medium bar-glass)
     Take i wine-glass iCinahan's or Jamieson's Irish
       whiskey
     2 wine-glasses of boiling water
     2 lumps of loaf-sugar
Dissolve the sugar well with one wine-glass of the water,
then pour in the whiskey, add the balance of the water,
and put in a small piece of lemon rind, or a thin slice
of lemon. Before using the glass, rinse it in hot water.



     156. HOT SCOTCH WHISKEY PUNCH
     (Use medium bar-glass)
     Take i wine-glass of Glenlivet or Islay whiskey
     2 wine-glasses of boiling water
     Sugar to taste (about 2 lumps of loaf sugar)
Dissolve the sugar with one wine-glass of the water,
then poirr in the whiskey, add the balance of the water,
and put in a small piece of lemon rind or a thin slice
of lemon. Before using the glass rinse it in hot water.



          157. COLD WHISKEY PUNCH
     (Use large bar-glass)
     Take i tablespoonful of powdered white sugar dis
       solved in a   little water
     Juice of half a small lemon
     13^ wine-glasses of Irish or Scotch whiskey
                   GIGGLE WATER                         75
Fill the glass with shaved ice, shake well, and dress the
top with two thin slices of lemon, and berries in season.
Serve with a straw.


               158. ARRACK PUNCH
    (Use medium bar-glass)
    Take i tablespoonful of powdered white sugar dis
         solved in a little water
     Juice of half a small lemon
     I pony-glass of Batavia arrack
     I wine-glass of Jamaica rum
     I piece of pineapple
Fill the glass with shaved ice, shake well, and dress the
top with berries in season. Serve with a straw.


                 159. MILK PUNCH
    (Use large bar-glass)
    Take i teaspoonful of fine white sugar
    I wine-glass of brandy
       wine-glass of Santa Cruz rum
     Small lump of ice
Fill with milk, shake the ingredients well together, strain
into a large glass, and grate a little nutmeg on top.


              160. HOT MILK PUNCH
    (Use large bar-glass)                                     ^
  This punch is made the same as the above, with the
exception that hot milk is used, and no ice.
 76                 GIGGLE WATER
          i6i. MANHATTAN MILK PUNCH

       (Use large bar-glass)
   Same as the foregoing cold milk pimch, with the ad
dition of five drops of Aromatic tincture.




               162. EGG MILK PUNCH

      (Use large bar-glass)
      Take i teaspoonful of fine white sugar
      I wine-glass of brandy
      Yi wine-glass of Santa Cruz rum
      I egg
      Small lump of ice
Fill the glass with pure fresh milk, shake the ingredients
well together and strain into a large glass.




                163. CLARET PUNCH
      (Use large bar-glass)
      Take i teaspoonful of fine sugar
      I slice of lemon
     I slice of orange (cut in quarters)
Fill the tumbler two-thirds full of shaved ice, then pour
in the claret until the glass is full, shake well, and orna
ment with berries in season. Serve with a straw.




                                                              '»,v
                   GIGGLE WATER                        77
               164. SAUTERNE PUNCH
      (Use large bar-glass)
     Take i teaspoonful of fine white sugar
      I slice of lemon
     I slice of orange
     I piece of pineapple
 Fill the tumbler two-thirds fuU with shaved ice, then
 pour in the Sauterne imtil the glass is full, shake well,
and dress with berries in season.



               165. VANILLA PUNCH
     (Use large bar-glass)
     Take i tablespoonful of sugar
     I wine-glass of brandy
     The juice of quarter of a lemon
Fill the tumbler with shaved ice, shake well, ornament
with one or two slices of lemon, and flavor with a few
drops of vanilla extract. This is a delicious drink, and
should be imbibed through a glass tube or straw.


               166. SHERRY PUNCH
    (Use small bar-glass)
    Take 2 wine-glasses of sherry
    I teaspoonful of sugar
    I slice of orange
    I slice of lemon
Fill tumbler with shaved ice, shake well, and ornament
with berries in season. Serve with a straw.
78                  GIGGLE WATER
                 167. ROMAN PUNCH
     (Use small bar-glass)
     Take i tablespoonful of powdered white sugar, dis
          solved in a little water
     I tablespoonful of raspberry syrup
     I teaspoonful of Curagoa
     I wine-glass of Jamaica rum
        wine-glass of brandy
     The juice of half a lemon
Fill with shaved ice, shake well, d^h with Port wine,
and ornament with fruits in season. Serve with a straw.




             168, CHAMPAGNE PUNCH

     (One quart of punch)
     Take i quart bottle of Champagne wine
     3 tablespoonfuls of sugar
     1 orange sliced
     The juice of a lemon
     2 slices of pineapple (cut in small pieces)
     I wine-glass of raspberry or strawberry syrup
Ornament with fruits in season, and serve in Cham
pagne goblets. This can be made in any quantity by
observing the proportions of the ingredients as given
above. Four bottles of wine make a gallon, and a gallon
is generally sufficient for fifteen persons in a mixed party.
                  GIGGLE WATER                       79
              169. MISSISSIPPI PUNCH
    (Use large bar-glass)
    Take i wine-glass of brandy
    Yz wine-glass of Jamaica rum
    Yz wine-glass of Bourbon whiskey
    I tablespoonful of powdered white sugar, dissolved
        in a little water
     The juice of half a small lemon
Fill the glass with shaved ice, shake well, and ornament
with fruit in season. Serve with a straw.




              170. IMPERIAL PUNCH
    (For a party of twenty)
    Take i gallon of water
    3 quarts of brandy
    I pint of Jamaica rum
         pounds of white sugar
    Juice of 6 lemons
    3 oranges sliced
    I pineapple, pared and cut up
    1 gill of Curaqoa
    2 gills of raspberry syrup
    Ice, and add berries in season
Mix the materials well together in a large bowl, and
you have a splendid punch. If not sweet enough, add
more sugar.




                                                            ...




                                                    ifi'iliii'^I'l I Till itiyj
82                  GIGGLE WATER
          175. HOT ENGLISH ALE FLIP
      (One quart)
  This is prepared in the same manner as Rum Flip,
omitting the nun, and the whites of two of the eggs.


                    176. SLEEPER
     Take i gill of old rum                                ^
     1 ounce of sugar
     2 fresh raw eggs
     Yz pint of water
     6 cloves
     6 coriander seeds
     I lemon
Boil the cloves and coriander, with a bit of cinnamon in
the water; mix together the rum, sugar, the yolks of the
eggs and the juice of half the lemon; wliisk them all to
gether, and strain into a tumbler.



           177. WHITE TIGER'S MILK
     (From a recipe in the possession of Dr. Thomas
         Dunn Englisjh)
     Take      gill of apple jack
     Yz gill of peach brandy
     Yz teaspoonful of aromatic tincture
     Sweeten with white sugar to taste
     The white of an egg beaten to a stiff foam
     I quart of pure fresh milk
                   GIGGLE WATER                           83
Pour in the milk to the mixed liquors, gradually, stir
ring all the while till all is well mixed, then sprinkle
with nutmeg. The above recipe is sufficient to make
a full quart of "White Tiger's Milk"; if more is
wanted, you can increase the above proportions. If
you want to prepare this beverage for a party of
twenty, use one gallon of milk to one pint of apple
jack, etc.
                           o-<>o



              178. BRANDY STRAIGHT
    (Use small bar-glass)
  In serving this drink you simply put a piece of ice
in a tumbler, and hand it to your customer, with the
bottle of brandy, and a separate glass of ice water.
  Whiskey Straight and Gin Straight are served in the
same manner.




                 179. PONY BRANDY
    (Use small bar-glass)
    Take i pony-glass of brandy (best)
    Pour it into the glass, and serve with some ice-
        water in a separate glass
    Some bartenders have a fancy way of serving this
         drink
It is done thusly:
     Fill to the brim a pony-glass of brandy, cover it
          with the bar-glass, then press both glasses tightly
          together and turn them over quickly, so that
          the pony-glass will remain upside down in the
          bar-glass, without a drop of the brandy escap
          ing.
          84                 GIGGLE WATER

                       i8o. BRANDY AND SODA

               (Use large soda-water glass)
               Take i wine-glass of brandy
               2 or 3 small lumps of ice
          Fill up the glass with a bottle of plain soda-water. This
          is sometimes called STONE WALL.




                   i8i. BRANDY AND GINGER ALE

               (Use large soda-water glass)
               Take i wine-glass of brandy
               2 or 3 small lumps of ice
          Fill up the glass with Irish ginger ale



                  182. SPLIT SODA AND BRANDY

               (Use medium bar-glass)
               Take i pony-glass of brandy
               I small lump of ice
               Add one-half of a bottle of plain soda-water.



           183. RHINE WINE AND SELTZER WATER
               (Use large bar-glass)
               Pour in Rhine wine until the glass is half full
               Add two small lumps of ice
               Fill the glass with Seltzer water




ilSii'.
                  GIGGLE WATER                          85
                 184. SHANDY GAFF
    (Use large bar-glass, or mug)
    Fill the glass half full of Ale, and the remaining
        half with Irish ginger ale
    In England, where this drink had its origin, it is
        made with Bass' Ale, and Ginger ale, half and
         half


                185. HALF AND HALF
    (Use metal or stone bar-mug)
    Mix half old and half new ale together
  This is the American method.



                186. "ARF AND ARF"
    (Use metal or stone bar-mug)
    Mix porter or Stout, with Ale in equal quantities,
        or in proportions to suit the taste
  This is the English method, and usually, "Draw it
mild, Mary, the ale first."



          187. ABSINTHE AND WATER
     (Use large bar-glass)
     Take i pony-glass of Absinthe
Fill an absinthe glass (which is a glass made purposely
with a hole in the bottom), with shaved ice and water.
Raise this glass about one foot above the tumbler con
taining the absinthe, and let sufficient water drip into it.
86                 GIGGLE WATER

     i88. FRENCH METHOD               OF SERVING
                      ABSINTHE
     (Use Champagne glass standing in a bowl)
     Take i pony-glass of Absinthe
Let the water drip, as directed in the preceding recipe,
until the glass is full, and a very little runs over into
the bowl.


                189. ROCK AND RYE
     (Use small bar-glass)
  Take i tablespoonful of rock-candy syrup
     I wine-glass of rye whiskey
Stir them together thoroughly, and serve.
  This is often prescribed for a cold.


                190. STONE FENCE
     (Use large bar-glass)
     Take i wine-glass of Bourbon or rye whiskey
     2 or 3 small lumps of ice
Fill up the glass with sweet cider.


 191. BRANDY COCKTAIL FOR BOTTLING
     Take 5 gallons of spirits (70 per cent)
     2 gallons of water
     I quart of gum syrup
        pint essence of Cognac
     I ounce of tincture of cloves
     I ounce of tincture of gentian
                  GIGGLE WATER                       87
    2 ounces of tincture of orange peel
    ^ ounce of tincture of cardamom
       ounce of tincture of licorice root
Mix the essence and tinctures with a portion of the
spirits; add the remainder of the ingredients, and color
with a sufficient quantity of Solferino and caramel (in
equal parts) to give tlie desired color.
                                                           •>•1

     192. GIN COCKTAIL FOR BOTTLING
    Take 5 gallons of gin
    2 gallons of water
    1 quart of gum syrup
    2 ounces of tincture of orange peel
    7 ounces of tincture of gentian
       ounce of tincture of cardamom
   T/z ounce of tincture of lemon peel
Mix them together, and give the desired color with Sol
ferino and caramel, in equal proportions.


193. BOURBON COCKTAIL FOR BOTTLING
    Take 5 gallons of Bourbon
    2 gallons of water
    1 quart of gum syrup
     2 ounces of tincture of orange peel
     I ounce of tincture of lemon peel
     I ounce of tincture of gentian
   Yz ounce of tincture of cardamom
Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and color with Sol
ferino and caramel, in equal proportions.
    Eleven Famous Cocktails
             of the

      Most Exclusive Club
               of

           New York
    As Served Before the War
When Mixing Drinks Was an Art
                                                  T
                   I. BRONX
One-third Italian and French Vermouth
Two-thirds Dry Gin                      'Frappe
Slice of Orange

                     ASTOR
One-half of Lime
Large Slice of Orange
One-third Caloric Punch •Frappe
One-third Dry Gin

               3. BACARDI
One-half of Lime
One-quarter Grenadine      •Frappe
Three-quarters Bacardi Rum


               4. CLOVER
One-half of Lime
White of One Egg
One-quarter Grenadine Frappe
One-half Dry Gin

            5. DRY MARTINI
One-third French Vermouth
Two-thirds Dry Gin            Frappe
                     90




                                                  J
             GIGGLE WATER .                          91
               6. PERFECT

One-third Italian and French Vermouth I „
Two-thirds Dry Gin


           7. COOPERSTOWN
One-third Italian and French Vermouth
Two-thirds Dry Gin
Slice of Orange                            •Frappe
Sprig of fresh mint


                 8. CHRIS

One-third Italian Vermouth )
Two-thirds Plymouth Gin     /

               9. MARTINI
One-third Italian Vermouth 1
                                Frappe
Two-thirds Dry Gin


               10. LIBERTY

One-half Italian Vermouth
One-half Plymouth Gin           \-Frappe
Oil of Orange Peel


            II. MANHATTAN
Two-thirds Rye Whiskey
                                 Stirred
One-third Italian Vermouth
                                                    •V




                                     i,%
                          '• > • ^ , C t



                                ''    i";" -'?

                                           ' • Ij




                                              s

I',-                                          I,

                                              '     Vi




                                           ••»
       iVw   ijtiiiiL'. .'_'X         ^•af/
                      •- •'" • r-iliMn

                                 m
                              '.*•'•?' J/KFa




    HOME-MADE WINE




                     u) f^'
JtMiL.
                                             '-V   '   i""




                        WINES

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR WINE MAKING

  The best method of making these wines is to boil the
ingredients, and ferment with yeast. Boiling makes the
wine more soft and mellow. Some, however, mix the
 juice, or juice and fruit, with sugar and water unboiled,
 and leave the ingredients to ferment spontaneously.
•Your fruit should always be prime, and gathered dry,
 and picked clean from stalks, etc. The lees of wine are
 valuable for distillation, or making vinegar. When wine
is put in the cask the fermentation will be renewed. Oear
away the yeast as it rises, and fill up with wine, for
which purposes a small quantity should be reserved. If
brandy is to be added, it must be when the fermentation
has nearly subsided, that is, when no more yeast is thrown
up at the bung-hole, and when the hissing noise is not
very perceptible; thus mix a quart of brandy with a
pound of honey, pour into the cask, and paste stiff brown
paper over the bung-hole. Allow no hole for a vent peg,
lest it should once be forgotten, and the whole cask of
 wine be spoiled. If the wine wants vent it will be sure
 to burst the paper; if not the paper will sufficiently ex-
                             95
96                  GIGGLE WATER
elude the air. Once a week or so it may be looked to; if
the paper is burst, renew it, and continue to do so until
it remains clear and dry.
  A great difference of opinion prevails as to racking the
wine, or suffering it to remain on the lees. Those who
adopt the former plan do it at the end of six months;
draw off the wine perfectly clear, and put it into a fresh
cask, in which it is to remain six months, and then be
bottled. If this plan is adopted, it may be better, instead
of putting the brandy and honey in the first cask, to put
it in that in which the wine is to be racked; but on the
whole, it is, perhaps, preferable to leave the wine a year
in the first cask, and then bottle it at once.
    All British wines improve in the cask more than in
the bottle. Have very nice clear and dry bottles; do not
fill them too high. Good soft corks, made supple by
soaking in a little of the wine; press them in, but do not
knock. Keep the bottles lying in sawdust. This plan will
apply equally well to raspberries, cherries, mulberries,
and all kinds of ripe summer fruits.




            194. COLORING FOR WINES
     One pound of white sugar. Put into an iron kettle, let
boil, and burn to a red black, and thick; remove from
the fire, and add a little hot water, to keep it from hard
ening as it cools; then bottle for use.
                   GIGGLE WATER                         97
           195. FINING OR CLEARING
  For fining or clearing the wine use one quarter pound
of isinglass, dissolved in a portion of the wine, to a
barrel. This must be put in after the fermentation is
over, and should be added gently at the bung-hole, and
managed so as to spread as much as possible over the
upper surface of the liquid; the intention being that the
isinglass should unite with impurities and carry them
with it to the bottom.




              196. TO FLAVOR WINE
  When the vinous fermentation is about half over, the
flavoring ingredients are to be put into the vat and well
stirred into the contents. If almonds form a component
part, they are first to be beaten to a paste and mixed
with a pint or two of the must. Nutmegs, cinnamon, gin
ger, seeds, etc., should, before they are put into the vat,
be reduced to powder, and mixed with some of the must.




             197. TO MELLOW WINE
  Wine, either in bottle or wood, will mellow much
quicker when only covered with pieces of bladder well
secured, than with corks or bungs. The bladder allows
the watery particles to escape, but is impervious to al
cohol.
98                   GIGGLE WATER
198. TO REMOVE THE TASTE OF THE CASK
                       FROM WINE

     Finest oil of olives, one pound. Put it into the hogs
head, bung dose, and roll it about, or otherwise well
agitate it, for three or four hours, then gib, and allow
it to settle. The olive oil will gradually rise to the top
and carry the ill flavor with it.



     199. TO REMOVE ROPINESS FROM WINE
  Add a little catechu or a small quantity of the bruised
berries of the mountain ash.



200. TO      RESTORE       WINE     WHEN      SOUR     OR
                          SHARP

   I. Fill a bag with leek-seed, or with leaves or twisters
of vine, and put either of them to infuse in the cask.
2. Put a small quantity of powdered charcoal in the wine,
shake it, and after it has remained still for forty-eight
hours, decant steadily.


            201. TO MAKE APPLE WINE

  To every gallon of apple juice, immediately as it comes
from the press, add two pounds of common loaf sugar;
boil it as long as any scum rises, then strain it through
                   GIGGLE WATER                         99

a sieve, and let it cool. Add some good yeast, and stir
it well. Let it work in the tub for two or three weeks,
or till the head begins to flatten; then skim off the head,
drain it clear off and tun it. When made a year, rack it
off and fine it with isinglass; then add one-half pint of
the best rectified spirit of wine or a pint of French
brandy to every eight gallons.



                 202. APRICOT WINE

  Take three pounds of sugar, and three quarts of water;
let them boil together and skim it well. Then put in six
pounds of apricots, pared and stoned, and let them boil
until they are tender; then take them up and when the
liquor is cold bottle it up. You may if you please, after
you loave taken out the apricots, let the liquor have one
boil with a sprig of flowered clary in it; the apricots
make marmalade, and are very good for preserves.




                203. BLACKBERRY WINE
  Bruise the berries well with the hands. To one gallon
of fruit, add one-half gallon of water, and let stand
overnight. Strain and measure, and to each gallon of
juice add two and one-half pounds of sugar. Put in cask
and let ferment. Tack thin muslin over top, and when
fermentation stops, potur into jugs or kegs. Wine keeps
best in kegs.
         lOO                GIGGLE WATER

                   204. AMERICAN CHAMPAGNE
          7 quarts good cider (crab-apple cider is the best),
        I pint best fourth-proof brandy, i quart genuine cham
        pagne wine, I quart milk,     ounce of bitartrate of po-
        tassa. Mix and let stand a short time; bottle while fer
        menting.


                    205. BRITISH CHAMPAGNE
           To every 5 pounds of rhubarb, when sliced and
        bruised, put i gallon of cold spring water. Let it stand
        3 days, stirring 2 or 3 times every day; then press and
        strain it through a sieve, and to every gallon of liquor,
        put three and one-half pounds of loaf sugar. Stir it well,
        and when melted, barrel it. When it has done working,
        bung it up close, first suspending a muslin bag with isin
        glass from the bung into the barrel. To 8 gallons of
        liquor, put 2 ounces of isinglass. In 6 months bottle it
        and wire the bottles; let them stand up for the first month,
        then lay four or five down lengthways for a week, and
        if none burst, all may be laid down. Should a large quan
        tity be made, it must remain longer in the cask. It may
        be colored pink by putting in a quart of raspberry juice.
        It will keep for many years.



                  206. BURGUNDY CHAMPAGNE
          14 potmds loaf sugar, 12 pounds brown sugar (pale),
        10 gallons warm water, i ounce white tartar. Mix, and




Oi; .
                   GIGGLE WATER                        loi

at a proper temperature add i pint yeast. Afterwards,
add I gallon sweet cider, 2 or 3 bitter almonds (bruised),
I quart pale spirit,    ounce orris powder.



             207. CHAMPAGNE CIDER
  One hogshead good pale vinous cider, 3 gallons proof
spirit (pale), 14 pounds honey or sugar. Mix, and let
them remain together in a temperate situation for one
month; then add i quart orange-flower water, and fine
it down with Yz gallon skimmed milk. This will be very
pale; and a similar article, when bottled in champagne
bottles, silvered and labelled, has been often sold to the
ignorant for champagne. It opens very brisk, if managed
properly.


             208. SHAM CHAMPAGNE

   I lemon sliced, i tablespoon tartaric acid, i ounce of
race-ginger, one and one-half pounds sugar, 2^ gallons
of boiling water, poured on the above. When blood warm,
add I gill of distillery yeast, or 2 gills of home-brewed.
Let it stand in the stm through the day. When cold, in
the evening, bottle, cork and wire it. In 2 days it is
ready for use.


               209. SHERRY BOUNCE
  I gallon of good whiskey,          pints of wild black
cherries bruised so as to break the stones, 2 ounces of
I02                GIGGLE WATER

common almonds shelled, 2 ounces of white sugar,
teaspoonful cinnamon, ^ teaspoonful cinnamon,       t^a-
spoonful cloves, % teaspoonful nutmeg, all bruised. Let
stand 12 to 13 days, and draw off. This, with the addi
tion of Yz gallon of brandy, makes very nice cherry
boiuice.




           210. TO MAKE CHERRY WINE

  Pull off the stalks of the cherries, and mash them with
out breaking the stones; then press them hard through
a hair bag, and to every gallon of liquor, put 2 pounds
of sugar. The vessel must be full, and let it work as
long as it makes a noise in the vessel; then stop it up
close for a month or more, and when it is fine, draw it
into dry bottles, and put a lump of sugar into every bottle.
If it makes them fly, open them all for a moment, and
then stop them up again. It will be fit to drink in a quarter
of a year.



                211. BOILING CIDER

   To prepare cider for boiling, the first process is to
filter it immediately on coming from the press. This is
easiest done by placing some sticks crosswise in the
bottom of a barrel^—a. flour barrel with a single head
is the best,—wherein an inch hole has been bored, and
covering these sticks with say four inches of clean rye
or wheat straw, and then filling the barrel to within a
                       GIGGLE WATER                       103

    foot of the top with clean sand or coai dust,—sand is
    the best. Pour the cider as it comes from the press into
    the top of this barrel, drawing it off as soon as it comes
    out at the bottom into air-tight casks, and let it stand
    in the cellar until March. Then draw it out with as little
    exposure to the air as possible, put it into bottles tliat
    can be tightly and securely corked, and in two months it
    will be fit for use.




                   212. TO CLEAR CIDER

      To clear and improve cider generally take 2 quarts of
    ground horseradish and 1 pound of thick gray filtering
    paper to the barrel, and either shake or stir tmtil the
    paper has separated into small shreds, and let it stand for
    24 hours, when the cider may be drawn off by means of a
    siphon or a stop cock. Instead of paper, a preparation of
    wool may be taken, which is to be had in the market, and
    which is preferableto paper, as it has simply to be washed
    with water, when it may be used again.




                   213. CIDER CHAMPAGNE
       5 gallons good cider, l quart spirit,        poimds of
    honey or sugar. Mix and let them rest for a fortnight,
    then fine with i gill of skimmed milk. This, put up in
    champagne bottles, silvered, and labelled, has often been
     sold for champagne. It opens very sparkling.




•       -I -   r
I04                 GIGGLE WATER
                   214. CIDER WINE
  Let the new cider from sour apples (ripe, sound fruit
preferred) ferment from one to three weeks, as the
weather is warm or cool. When it has attained to a lively
fermentation, add to each gallon, according to acidity,
from 1/2 pound to 2 pounds of white crushed sugar, and
let the whole ferment until it possesses precisely the taste
which it is desired should be permanent. In this condition
pour out one quart of the cider, and add for each gallon
of cider    ounce of sulphite of lime, not sulphate. Stir
the powder and cider until intimately mixed, and return
the emulsion to the fermenting liquid. Agitate briskly and
thoroughly for a few moments, and then let the cider
settle. Fermentation will cease at once. When, after a few
days, the cider has become clear, draw off carefully, to
avoid the sediment, and bottle. If loosely corked, which
is better, it will become a sparkling cider wine, and may
be kept indefinitely long.



       215. TO MAKE FINE CLARY WINE
   To 5 gallons of water put 12)^ pounds of sugar, and
the whites of 6 eggS well beaten. Set it over the fire, and
let it boil gently near an hour; skim It clean and put it
in a tub, and when it is near cold, then put into the vessel
you keep it in about      a strike of clary in the blossom,
stripped from the stalks, flowers and little leaves together,
and I pint of new ale-yeast. Then put in the liquor, and
stir it 2 or 3 times a day for 3 days; when it has done
                    GIGGLE WATER                          105
working, stop it up, and bottle it at 3 or 4 months old, if
it is clear.



                216. CURRANT WINE

  Take 4 gallons of currants, not too ripe, and strip them
into an earthen stein that has a cover to it. Then take
gallons of water and 5pounds of double refined sugar;
boil the sugar and water together, skim it, and pour it
boiling hot on the currants, letting it stand 48 hours; then
strain it through a flannel bag into the stein again, let it
stand a fortnight to settle, and bottle it out.



                   217. DAISY WINE
  I quart of daisy heads, i quart of cold water. Let stand
48 hours. Strain and add ^ pound of sugar to each quart
of liquid. Let stand about 2 weeks, till it stops fermenting.
Strain again and bottle. It improves with keeping.



               218. DANDELION WINE

  4 quarts of dandelions. Cover with 4 quarts of boiling
water; let stand 3 days. Add peel of three oranges and
one lemon. Boil 15 minutes; drain and add juice of
oranges and lemon to 4 pounds of sugar and i cup of
yeast. Keep in warm room and strain; let it stand
for 3 weeks. It is then ready to bottle and serve.




                              nn M II I liH mh I I
io6                   GIGGLE WATER
           219. ELDER FLOWER WINE
  Take the flowers of elder, and be careful that you
don't let any stalks in; to every quart of flowers put
I gallon of water, and 3 pounds of loaf sugar. Boil the
water and sugar a quarter of an hour, then pour it on
the flowers and let it work 3 days; then strain the wine
through a hair sieve, and put it into a cask. To every 10
gallons of wine add i ounce of isinglass dissolved in cider,
and 6 whole eggs. Close it up and let it stand 6 months,
and then bottle it.



             220. ELDERBERRY WINE

   9 quarts of elderberry juice, 9 quarts water,
pounds white sugar, 2 ounces red tartar. These are put
into a cask, a little yeast added, and the whole is fer
mented. When undergoing fermentation, i ounce ginger
root, I ounce allspice,    ounce cloves are put into a bag
of clean cotton cloth, and suspended in the cask. They
will give a pleasant flavor to the wine, which will become
clear in about 2 months, and may he drawn off and bottled.
Add some brandy to this wine, but if the fermentation is
properly conducted, this is not necessary.



             221. ENGLISH FIG WINE

  Take the large blue figs when pretty ripe, and steep
them in white wine, having made some slits in them, that
they may swell and gather in the substance of the wine.
                              GIGGLE WATER                107
Then slice some other figs and let them simmer over a
fire in water until they are reduced to a kind of pulp.
Then strain out the water, pressing the pulp hard and
pour it as hot as possible on the figs that are imbrued in
the wine. Let the quantities be nearly equal, but the water
somewhat more than the wine and figs. Let them stand
24 hours, mash them well together, and draw off what will
run without squeezing. Then press the rest, and if not
sweet enough add a sufficient quantity of sugar to make
it so. Let it ferment, and add to it a little honey and
sugar candy, then fine it with white of eggs, and a little
isinglass, and draw it off for use.



       222. TO MAKE FRONTIGNAC WINE

  Take 3 gallons of water, 6 pounds of white sugar, and
3 pounds of raisins of the sun cut small; boil these to
gether an hour. Then take of the flowers of elder, when
they are falling, and will shake off, the quantity of half
a peck; put them in the liquor when it is almost cold.
The next day put in 3 spoonfuls of syrup of lemons and
2 spoonfuls of ale-yeast, and 2 days after put it in a
vessel that is fit for it, and when it has stood 2 months,
bottle it off.


      223. TO MAKE GOOSEBERRY WINE

  Boil 4 gallons of water, and Y2 pound of sugar an
hour, skim it well, and let it stand till it is cold. Then to
every quart of that water, allow             pounds of goose-




          • rt 1Wli'trfTi I
io8                GIGGLE WATER

berries, first beaten or bruised very well, let it stand 24
hours. Then strain it out, and to every gallon of this
liquor put 3 pounds of sugar; let it stand in the vat 12
hours. Then take the thick scum off, and put the clear
into a vessel fit for it, and let it stand a month; then
draw it off, and rinse the vessel with some of the liquor.
Put it in again, and let it stand four months, and bottle it.


 224. RED AND WHITE GOOSEBERRY WINE
  Take one and one-half gallons cold soft water, 3 quarts
red gooseberries, 2 quarts white gooseberries. Ferment.
Now mix 2J/2 pounds raw sugar,         pound honey,
ounce tartar in fine powder. Afterwards put in i ounce
bitter almonds, a small handful sweet briar, 2 quarts
brandy or less.


225. WHITE GOOSEBERRY OR CHAMPAGNE
                          WINE

   Take 4^ gallons cold soft water and 15 quarts of white
gooseberries. Ferment. Now mix 6 pounds refined sugar,
4 pounds honey, i ounce white tartar in fine powder. Put
in one ounce dry orange and lemon peel, or 2 ounces fresh,
and add Yz gallon white brandy. This will make 9 gallons.


                  226. GRAPE WINE

  2 quarts of grape juice, 2 quarts of water, 4 pounds of
sugar. Extract the juice of the grape in any simple way;
                   GIGGLE WATER                         109
if only a few quarts are desired, we do it with a strainer
and a pair of squeezers; if a large quantity is desired, put
the grapes into a cheese-press made particularly clean, put
ting on sufficient weight to extract the juice of a full
hoop of grapes, being careful that none but perfect grapes
are used, perfectly ripe and free from blemish. After the
first pressing, put a little water with the pulp and press
a second time, using the juice of the second pressing with
the water to be mixed with the clear grape juice. If only
a few quarts are made, place the wine as soon as mixed
into bottles, filling them even full, and allow to stand in
a warm place until it ferments, which will take about 36
hours usually; then remove all the scum, cool, and put
into a dark, cool place. If a few gallons are desired, place
in a keg, but the keg must be even full, and after fermen
tation has taken place and the sciun removed, draw off
and bottle, and cork tight.




                    227. HOT BEER
   Turn 5 quarts of water on 6 ounces of hops; boil three
hours. Strain off the liquor; turn on 4 quarts more of
water, and 12 spoonfuls of ginger, and boil the hops 3
hours longer. Strain and mix it with the other liquor, and
stir in 2 quarts of molasses. Brown, very dry,      pound
of bread, and put in,—rusked bread is best. Pound it fine,
and brown it in a pot, like coffee. After cooling to be
about lukewarm, add i pint of new yeast that is free
from salt. Keep the beer covered, in a temperate situa-
no                    GIGGLE WATER

tion, till fermentation has ceased, which is known by the
settling of the froth; then turn it into a keg or bottles,
and keep it in a cool place.




            228. JUNIPER-BERRY WINE
  Take      gallons of cold soft water, 7 pounds Malaga
or Smyrna raisins,      quarts juniper-berries,   ounce
red tartar,  handful wormwood, J/2 handful sweet mar
joram, I pint whiskey or more. Ferment for 10 or 12
days.



                  229. LEMON WINE
 4 pounds sugar, i pound raisins (bruised), 2 gallons
water. Boil, then add i gallon cider. Ferment, and add
I quart of spirits,     ounce white tartar, a few drops es
sence of lemon. Observe to shake the essence, with a little
of the spirit, imtil it becomes milky, before adding it to
the wine.




                 230. MADEIRA WINE
  To 5 gallons prepared cider, add     ounce tartaric acid,
y^ pint spirits, y^ pound loaf sugar. Let it stand 10 days,
draw it off carefully, fine it down, and again rack it into
another cask.
                            GIGGLE WATER                          iii

           231. MALT WINE, OR ENGLISH SHERRY

          Take 12 pounds of good moist sugar, 2 gallons of water.
        Boil them together 2 hours, skimming carefully. When
        the scum is all removed, and the liquor looks clear, add
        Yt. ounce of hops, which should boil       hour or 20 min
        utes. When the liquor is quite cold, add to it 5 quarts of
        strong beer in the height of working; cover up and let
        it work 48 hours; then skim and tun. If none remains for
        filling up, use new beer for that purpose. This method
        may be adopted with all boiled wines, and will be found
        to improve their strength and promote their keeping. In a
        fortnight or 3 weeks, when the head begins to sink, add
        2Y pounds raisins (free from stalks), i ounce of sugar
        candy, i ounce of bitter almonds, Y             of fh® I'ost
        brandy; brown paper, as in former articles. It may be
        bottled in one year; but if left 3 years in the wood, and
        then bottled, it will be found equal in strength and flavor
        to foreign wine.




                  232. TO MAKE ORANGE WINE
           Put 12 pounds of fine sugar and the whites of 8 eggs
        well beaten into 6 gallons of spring water; let it boil
        an hour, skimming it all the time. Take it off and when
        it is pretty cool, put in the juice and rind of fifty Seville
        oranges, and 6 spoonfuls of good ale yeast, and let it
        stand 2 days. Then put it into your vessel, with 2 quarts
        of Rhenish wine, and the juice of 12 lemons. You must
        let the juice of lemons and wine and 2 pounds of double




ivAfc
112                 GIGGLE WATER

refined sugar stand close covered lo or 12 hours before
you put it in the vessel to your orange wine, and skim
off the seeds before you put it in. The lemon peels must
be put in with the oranges; half the rinds must be put
into the vessel. It must stand 10 or 12 days before it is fit
to bottle.




             233. TO MAKE PALERMO WINE
   Take to every quart of water i pound of Malaga
raisins, rub and cut the raisins small, and put them to the
water, and let them stand 10 days, stirring once or twice
a day. You may boil the water an hour before you put
it to the raisins, and let it stand to cool. At ten days' end
strain out your liquor, and put a little yeast to it; and at
three days' end put it in the vessel, with one sprig of dried
wormwood. Let it be close stopped, and at 3 months' end
bottle it off.

                           <—X-




              234. TO MAKE PEACH WINE
  Take 3 gallons cold soft water, 4% pounds refined
sugar, I pound honey, ^ ounce white tartar in fine pow
der, 10 or 14 peaches. Ferment; then add six quarts of
brandy. The first division is to be put into a vat, and the
day after, before the peaches are put in, take the stones
from them, break these and the kernels, then put them and
the pulp into a vat and proceed with the general process.
                                                                               —fVr;-*y-r   j




                        GIGGLE WATER                       113
                       235. PLUM WINE
  Take 5 pounds of Malaga raisins, pick, rub and shred
them, and put them into a tub; then take one gallon of
water, boil it an hour, and let it stand till it is blood-warm;
then put it to your raisins. Let it stand 9 or 10 days, stir
ring it once or twice a day; strain out your liquor, and
mix it with one pint of damson juice. Put it in a vessel,
and when it has done working stop it close; at 4 or 5
months bottle it.




                          236. PORTER
    8 quarters pale malt, 6 quarters amber malt, 2 quarters
brown malt. Mash it twice, with 55 and 48 barrels of
water, then boil with one hundredweight of Kent hops,
and set with 10 gallons yeast, 7 pounds salt, 2 pounds
flour. 20 barrels of good table beer may be had from the
grains. If deficient in color, add burnt malt.




                   237. PORTER, FOR BOTTLING
     5 quarters pale malt, 3 quarters amber malt, 2 quarters
brown malt, burnt malt to color if required. Mash with
24, 14 and II barrels of water, then boil with one hun
dredweight Kent hops, and set with seven gallons yeast,
3 pounds salt. Mash the grains for table beer.




 iii'iiiiliimrti                                            > i-i-UiWri-Mf^>ii •' 1.1
114                 GIGGLE WATER
                    238. PORT WINE

  To 10 gallons prepared cider, add     gallons good Port
wine, 25^ quarts wild grapes (clusters), 2 ounces bruised
rhatany root, ^ ounce tincture of kino, ^ pound loaf
sugar, Yz gallon spirits. Let this stand 10 days; color if
too light, with tincture of rhatany, then rack it off and
fine it. This should be repeated until the color is perfect
and the liquid clear.




                  239. RAISIN WINE
    5 pounds of raisins, 4 gallons of water. Put them into
a cask. Mash for a fortnight, frequently stirring, and
leave the lung loose until the active fermentation ceases;
then add       pints of brandy. Well mix, and let it stand
till fine. The quantity of raisins and brandy may be al
tered to suit.




        240. RAISIN WINE WITH SUGAR
  To every gallon of soft water 4 pounds of fresh raisins;
put them in a large tub; stir frequently, and keep it cov
ered with a sack or blanket. In about a fortnight the fer
mentation will begin to subside; this may be known by
the raisins remaining still. Then press the fruit and strain
the liquor. Have ready a wine cask, perfectly dry and
                     GIGGLE WATER                        115
warm, allowing for each gallon one or one and one-half
pounds of Lisbon sugar; put this into a cask with the
strained liquor. When half full, stir well the sugar and
liquor, and put in 1.2 pint of thick yeast; then fill up with
the liquor, and continue to do so while the fermentation
lasts, which will be a month or more.




        241. TO MAKE RASPBERRY WINE
  Take your quantity of raspberries and bruise them, put
them in an open pot 24 hours; then squeeze out the Juice,
and to every gallon of the juice put 3 pounds of fine
sugar, 2 quarts of canary. Put it into a stein or vessel,
and when it has done working stop it close; when it is
fine, bottle it. It must stand 2 months before you drink it.




                242. RASPBERRY WINE
  Potmd your fruit and strain it through a cloth; then
boil as much water as juice of raspberries, and when it
is cold put it to your squeezings. Let it stand together
5 hours, then strain it and mix it with the juice, adding
to every gallon of this liquor 2j4 pounds of fine sugar.
Let it stand in an earthen vessel close covered a week,
then put it in a vessel fit for it, and let it stand a month
or till it is fine; bottle it off.
 ii6                 GIGGLE WATER

                  243. RHUBARB WINE
  To each gallon of juice add i gallon of soft water, in
which 7 pounds of brown sugar have been dissolved. Fill
a keg or a barrel with this proportion, leaving the bung
out, and keep it filled with sweetened water as it works
over until clear; then bung down or bottle as you desire.
These stalks will furnish about ^ their weight in juice,
or from 1600 to 2000 gallons of wine to each acre of well
cultivated plants. Fill the barrels and let them stand until
spring, and bottle, as any wine will be better in glass or
stone.




                  244. SHERRY WINE
  To 5 gallons prepared cider add I quart spirits, ^4 of
a pound of raisins, ^ good sherry, and a few drops oil of
bitter almonds (dissolved in alcohol). Let it stand 10 days,
and draw it off carefully. Fine it down, and again rack it
into another cask.




           245. LONDON SHERRY WINE
   12 pounds chopped raisins, 3 gallons soft water, I
pound sugar, 14 ounce white tartar, 2 quarts cider. Let
them stand together in a closed vessel one month; stir fre
quently. Then add i quart of spirits,     pound wild cher
ries bruised. Let them stand i month longer and fine
with isinglass.                                                ;
                    GIGGLE WATER                        117
             246. STRAWBERRY WINE
   12 gallons bruised strawberries, 10 gallons cider, 7 gal
lons water, 25 pounds sugar. Ferment, then add Yz ounce
bruised orris root, Yz ounce bruised bitter almonds, Y2
ounce bruised cloves, 6 oimces red tartar.




                  247. CHAMPAGNE
   The process of making American and imitation French
champagne is one requiring great care, especially in pro
ducing a not only clear, but bright wine. Full directions
are given below for making the necessary syrup, mixing
the ingredients, fining, filtering and gassing; including a
number of receipts for different kinds of champagne. A
careful attention to the instructions laid dovm will pro
duce wines which will compare favorably with the best
genuine importations.



  248. TO MAKE A FILTER FOR FILTERING
                         WINES

  A filter for wines is usually made of felt, shaped like
a cone or sugar loaf; those without any seam are the best.
A lining of paper pulp is prepared in the following man
ner: Tear from 2 to 4 sheets filtering paper into small
pieces and put it into a pail; pour over it a little boiling
water, sufficient, by thorough beating, to form a fine
smooth paste; then add sufficient water to fill the filter.
ii8                 GIGGLE WATER

Pour this quickly into the filter, and, 5 minutes after the
water has drained through, fill up with the wine to be
filtered, taking care to keep the filter always full.



  249. TO MAKE SYRUP FOR CHAMPAGNE
                           WINE

 To 25 pounds white sugar, add 2 gallons water and the
whites of 4 eggs; stir until the sugar is dissolved. Let the
whole simmer to the candy degree; then strain it through
a bag made of fine flannel.



  250. TO PREPARE ISINGLASS FOR FINING
                          WINES

   Cut up some isinglass (it must be of the very best qual
ity), and put it in a jar, -with just enough wine or water
to cover it; add daily as much of the wine or water as
has been absorbed by the isinglass. In 6 or 8 days it should
be completely dissolved, forming a thick fluid mass.
Squeeze it through a linen cloth and put it into a bottle,
adding 4 or 5 per cent of 95 per cent alcohol to make it
keep. For 40 gallons wine to be fined, take i wine-glassful
of dissolved isinglass, add a little wine and a pinch of
salt, and beat to a froth with a whisk, adding by degrees
sufficient wine to make the mixture up to Y2 gallon. When
foaming, pour it slowly into the wine, stirring till all the
fining is incorporated with the wine. Isinglass thus pre-
                          GIGGLE WATER                           ^9
       pared and used wiU precipitate completely; and, after a
       few days, the wine will be bright. Too much care cannot
       be taken in the preparation of fining, as even the finest
       isinglass contains fibrous matter which dissolves with dif
       ficulty; this is very apt to remain suspended in the wine,
       and is not visible until developed, after bottling, by the
       gas with which the wine is afterwards charged.


       211 TO PREPARE CHAMPAGNE WINE FOR
        ^ '                  CHARGING
         Put the wine used to make the champagne into a cask,
       add the brandy spirit, the aroma or flavoring, and the
       syrup, and stir for lO minutes. Every day for 4days draw
       off 15 or 20 gallons of the mixture and pour it in again,
       let it rest 4 days more, then add the fining, stir for 10
       minutes, and bung up the cask. In 3 or 4 days if bright,
       draw off slowly, so as not to disturb the lees. Filter and
       it is ready for the fountain of the gassing apparatus.

                                  -000




          252. TO CHARGE CHAMPAGNE WITH GAS
          Matthews' apparatus is the one usually adopted in the
        United States for generating the gas and charging cham
        pagne wine. The fountains, tubes, and valves are silver-
        lined, and the machines are adapted for pint and quart
        bottles. The following is a proper charge for a No. 2 ap-



M'.t




                                                           ^ •        ..hiillflllA rf
  120               GIGGLE WATER

 paratus with 2 fountains: Charge the generator with 9
 gallons water, 6 gallons ground marble, and 3 gallons sul
 phuric acid; put 2 gallons water in the gas washer, and
 20 gallons wine in each of the fountains. For a warm cli
 mate, a pressure of 70 pounds to the square inch is suf
 ficient. When the wine is made in winter for immediate
 sale, the pressure may he increased to 80 pounds. Genuine
 champagne has an average pressure of 50 pounds.



         253. CALIFORNIA CHAMPAGNE
  40 gallons California wine; i quart raspberry syrup; 4
gallons syrup made of 25 pounds sugar and 2 gallons
water; and 4 gallons water. Or: 20 gallons California
wine; 20 gallons Sauteme or white Bordeaux wine;
gallon old cognac brandy; with 4 gallons syrup as before.
Add to these 10 per cent of water.

                          -x-o-




    254. IMITATION FRENCH CHAMPAGNE
  40 gallons white Bordeaux wine; i gallon muscat wine;
Yi gallon old cognac brandy; and 4 gallons syrup made
of 25 pounds sugar and 2 gallons water. In this receipt
a little tincture of vanilla, or a small bottle of bouquet
venatique, may be used instead of the muscat wine. They
may be omitted altogether if aroma is not desired.
                                   GIGGLE WATER                       121

                             255. CHEAP CHAMPAGNE
                   13 gallons California wine; 13 gallons white Bordeaux
                 wine; 13 gallons water; i gallon 95 per cent French
                 spirit; i quart raspberry syrup; and 4 gallons syrup made
                 of 25 pounds sugar and 2 gallons water. Or: 20 gallons
                 Catawba wine; 20 gallons water; 2 gallons Angelica
                 wine; 2 gallons 95 per cent French spirit; and 4 gallons
                 syrup made as before.


                    256. THE USE OF GLYCERINE IN WINE
                   Glycerine differs from sugar in not fermenting or
                 taking any active part in the process of fermentation.
                 It can, however, be made use of after fermentation to
                 impart any required degree of sweetness to wine, with
                 out the risk of further fermentation, as is the case with
                 sugar when used for this purpose; it is said that it can
                 be added with perfect safety to even a young or new
                 wine, as soon as it has become clear. It is absolutely
                 necessary that the glycerine should be chemically
                 pure; care is consequently to be taken in purchasing
                 it, as there are few articles in the market which are
                 liable to contain so many impurities. The proportion
                 of glycerine should be from I to 3 gallons for 100 gal
                 lons of wine, according to the quality of the latter. If
                 the wine is perfectly clear before adding the glycerine
                 it will be ready for bottling at once. It is best to mix
                 the glycerine first with an equal quantity of the wine,
                 and then add the mixture to the remainder of the
                 wine.




L iti-'., Jfc.
 122                 GIGGLE WATER

 257. ELECTRICITY AS AN AGENT FOR IM
                    PROVING WINES

   From experiments made on a large scale, it has been
 found that electricity in any form, either as a regular cur
 rent or a succession of discharges, renders wine or
whiskey mellow and mature. It is supposed that the bitar-
trate of potassa is decomposed setting free potash and
tartaric acid; the former tending to neutralize the acids of
the wine; and the tartaric acid, reacting upon the fatty
matters present, favors the formation of the ethers which
constitute the bouquet of the wine. It is probable, also,
that a small quantity of the water is decomposed, setting
free oxygen, which forms, with some of the constituents
of the wine, new compounds peculiar to old wines.



             258. HOME-MADE WINES
  The various processes in domestic wine-making resem
ble those employed for foreign wine, and depend upon
the same principles. The fruit should be preferably gath
ered in fine weather, and not till it has arrived at a proper
state of maturity, as evinced by its flavor when tasted;
for if it be employed while unripe, the wine will be harsh,
disagreeable and imwholesome, and a larger quantity of
sugar and spirit will be required to render it palatable.
The common practice of employing unripe gooseberries
for the manufacture of wine arises from a total igno
rance of the scientific principles of wine making. On the
other hand, if fruit be employed too ripe, the wine is
                    GIGGLE WATER                         123
 I


apt to be inferior, and deficient in the flavor of the fruit.
The fruit being gathered, it next undergoes the operation
of picking, for the purpose of removing the stalks and
unripe or damaged portion. It is next put in a tub and
well bruised. Raisins are commonly permitted to soak
about 24 hours previously to bruising them, or they may
be advantageously bruised or minced in the dry state. The
bruised fruit is then put into a vat or vessel with a guard
or strainer placed over the tap-hole, to keep back the husks
and seeds of the fruit when the must or juice is drawn
off. The water is now added, and the whole macerated
for 30 or 40 hours, more or less; during which time it is
frequently stirred up with a suitable wooden stirrer. The
liquid portion is next drawn off, and the residuary pulp
is placed in hair bags and undergoes the operation of
pressing to expel the fluid it contains. The sugar, tartar,
etc. (in very fine powder or in solution), are now added
to the mixed liquor, and the whole is well stirred. The
temperature being suitable (generally from 75° to 85°
Fahr.) the vinous fermentation soon commences, when
the liquor is frequently skimmed (if necessary) and well
stirred up, and after 3 or 4 days of this treatment, it is
run into casks, which should be quite filled, and left open
at the bung-hole. In about a week the flavoring ingredi
ents, in the state of coarse powder, are commonly added,
and well stirred in, and in about another week, depending
upon the state of fermentation and the attenuation of the
must, the brandy or spirit is added, and the cask filled
up, and bunged down close. In 4 or 5 weeks more the cask
is again filled up, and, after some weeks—^the longer the
better—it is "pegged" or "spiled" to ascertain if it be fine
124                GIGGLE WATER
or transparent; if so, it undergoes the operation of rack
ing; but if, on the contrary, it still continues muddy, it
must previously pass through the process of fining. Its
future treatment is similar to that of foreign wine. The
must of many of the strong-flavored fruits, as black cur
rants for instance, is improved by being boiled before
being made into wine; but the flower and bouquet of the
more delicate fruits are diminished, if not destroyed, by
boiling.




259. GENERAL RECEIPT FOR THE PREPARA
      TION OF HOME-MADE WINE FROM RIPE
      SACCHARINE FRUITS

  I:—Ripe fruit, 4 pounds; clear soft water, i gallon;
sugar, 3 pounds; cream of tartar, dissolved in boiling
water,    ounces; brandy, 2 to 3 per cent. Flavoring as
required. Makes a good family wine.
  II :i—As the last, using i pound more each of fruit and
sugar. A superior wine.
  Ill:—As the first, adding 2 pounds each fruit and
sugar. Very strong. Is good without brandy, but better
with it.     pounds of raisins may be substituted for
each pound of sugar above. In the above way may be
made the following wines:—^gooseberry wine, currant
wine (red, white or black) ; mixed fruit wine (currants
and gooseberries; or black, red, and white currants, ripe
black-heart cherries, and raspberries, equal parts). This is
a good family wine. Cherry Avine; Colepress's wine (from
apples and mulberries, equal parts); elder wine; straw-
                     GIGGLE WATER                      125
berry wine; raspberry wine; mulberry wine (when flav
ored makes port) ; whortleberry (sometimes called huckle
berry) wine; makes a good factitious port; blackberry
wine; morella wine; apricot wine; apple wine; grape wine,
etc.




260. GENERAL RECEIPT FOR MAKING WINE
      FROM DRY SACCHARINE FRUIT

  I:—Dry fruit, 4)/^ pounds; soft water, i gallon; cream
of tartar (dissolved), i pound; brandy, ij/^ to 2 per cent,
weak.
  II:—As the last, but using 5^ pounds dried fruit. A
superior family wine.
   Ill:—As the last,       pounds fruit, and brandy 3 per
cent. A strong wine. Should the dried fruit employed be
at all deficient in saccharine matter, i to 3 pounds may
be omitted, and half that quantity of sugar, or two-
thirds of raisins, added. In the above manner may be made
raisin wine, fig wine, etc.




          261. IMITATION CHAMPAGNE

  Stoned raisins, 7 pounds; loaf sugar, 21 pounds; water,
9 gallons; crystallized tartaric acid, I ounce; honey, ^
pound; ferment with sweet yeast i pound or less; skim
frequently, and when the fermentation is nearly over, add
coarse powdered orris root, i drachm, and eau de fleurs
126                GIGGLE WATER

d'orange, 3 ounces; lemon juice,       pint. Rack it, bung
close, and in 3 months fine it down with isinglass,
ounce; in i month, if not sparkling, again fine it down,
and in 2 weeks bottle it, observing to put a piece of double
refined sugar, the size of a pea, into each bottle. The
bottles should be wired, and the corks covered with tin
foil.




        262. TO MAKE BLACKBERRY WINE

   To make 10 gallons of this cheap and excellent wine,
press the juice out of sufficient fresh ripe blackberries to
make 4^ gallons; wash the pomace in            gallons soft
spring water, and thoroughly dissolve in it 6 pounds white
sugar to each gallon of water (brown sugar will do for
an inferior wine) ; strain the juice into this syrup, and
mix them. Fill a cask with it perfectly full, and lay a
cloth loosely over the bung-hole, placing the cask where
it will be perfectly undisturbed. In 2 or 3 days fermenta
tion will commence, and the impurities run over at the
bung. Look at it every day, and if it does not run over,
with some of the mixture which you have reserved in an
other vessel fill it up to the bung. In about 3 weeks, fer
mentation will have ceased, and the wine be still; fill it
again, drive in the bung tight, nail a tin over it, and let
it remain undisturbed until the following March. Then
draw it off, without shaking the cask, put it into bottles,
cork tightly and seal over. Some persons add spirit to the
wine, but instead of doing good, it is only an injury. The
more carefully the juice is strained, the better the quality
                    GIGGLE WATER                         127
of the sugar, and the more scrupulously clean the utensils
and casks, the purer and better will be the wine.




263. SPECIMEN PROCESS TO MAKE UNRIPE
     GRAPE,      CURRANT,         GOOSEBERRY           AND
     RHUBARB WINE

according to the process of Dr. McCulloch. Gather the
fruit when it is nearly full grown, but before it shows the
least sign of ripening. Any kind will do, but it is advisable
to avoid choosing those which, when ripe, would be highly
flavored. All unsound and bruised fruit should be re
jected, and the stalks and remains of blossom removed
by picking of rubbing. The following receipt is one of the
best on the subject: 40 pounds fruit are to be bruised in
small quantities, in a tub which will hold 15 or 20 gallons,
sufficient pressure only being used to burst the berries,
without breaking the seeds or much compressing the skins,
4 gallons of water are then to be poured on the fruit,
which is to be carefully stirred, and squeezed with the
hands until the whole of the juice and pulp are separated
from the solid matter. It is then to rest for a few hours,
when it must be pressed and strained through a coarse
canvas bag with considerable force, i gallon of water may
afterwards be passed through the residue, to remove any
soluble matter that may be left, and then added to the
juice. 30 pounds loaf sugar are now to be dissolved in
the juice, and the total quantity of liquid made up with
water to 1014 gallons. The liquor is now to be put into
128                 GIGGLE WATER

a tub, over which spread a blanket, covered by a board,
and place in a temperature of from 55° to 60° Fahr., for
 from 24 to 48 hours, according to the signs which it may
show of fermentation, when it is to be put into a cask
to ferment. The cask must be of such size that the liquor
will nearly reach to the bung-hole, so that the scum may
run out as it rises. As the fermentation goes on the liquor
will decrease, and the cask must be kept filled up nearly
to the bung-hole with a portion of the "must" which has
been reserved for that purpose. When the fermentation
has become a little weaker, which may be known by the
hissing noise decreasing, the bung is to be driven in, and
a wooden peg, called a spile, made of tough wood, put
into a hole bored in the top of the barrel. After a few
days this peg is to be loosened to let out any carbonic acid
gas which has been generated. This must be done from
time to time, and when there is no further sign of gas
generating to the danger of the barrel, the spile may be
made tight. The wine should be kept during the winter in
a cool cellar, and, if fine, may be bottled on a clear cold
day at the end of February or the beginning of March,
without further trouble. But to ensure its fineness it is
preferable to draw it off at the end of December into a
fresh cask, so as to clear it from the lees. At this time,
also, if it is found to be too sweet for the maker's taste,
he should stir up the lees so as to renew the fermentation,
at the same time raising the temperature. When it is trans
ferred to the fresh cask, it should be fined with isinglass.
Sometimes it is desirable to rack it off a second time into
a fresh cask, again fining it. All these removals should be
made in clear, dry, and if possible, cold weather. It must
                   GIGGLE WATER                         129
be bottled in March. This wine will usually be brisk, but
circumstances will occasionally cause it to be sweet and
still, and sometimes dry. If sweet, it may be re-made the
following season, by adding to it juice from fresh fruit,
according to the degree of sweetness, and fermenting and
treating it as before. But if it be dry, briskness can never
be restored, and it must be treated as a dry wine, by draw
ing it off into a cask previously fumigated with sulphur
and fining and bottling it in the usual manner. Such dry
wines sometimes taste disagreeably in the first and second
year, but improve much with age. If the whole marc or
husks, etc., is allowed to remain in the juice during the
first fermentation, the process will be more rapid, and
the wine stronger and less sweet; but it will have more
flavor. If the wine is desired to be very sweet as well as
brisk, 40 pounds of sugar may be used; less sweet and
less strong, 25 pounds; it will be brisk, but not so strong,
and ought to be used within a year.


264. TO FINE WINE DIFFICULT TO CLARIFY,
     OR THICK IN CONSEQUENCE OF AN IM
     PERFECT FERMENTATION

  To clarify 60 gallons, take i ounce of the species of
Dock or Rumex plant, called Patience root, which boil
in I quart water. When cold, filter, and add i ounce com
mon salt, then i glass sheep's blood. Beat all the ingre
dients well together with a broom until the mixture foams
up well, then add it gradually to the wine, stirring con
tinually while pouring it in, and for 15 minutes after
wards. In a few days the wine will be clear.
130                GIGGLE WATER
  265. TO FINE MADEIRA OR ANY KIND OF
              WINE WITH ISINGLASS

   To fine 40 gallons wine, steep i ounce isinglass in i
pint of pure cold water over night, and then melt it over
a gentle charcoal fire, until a uniform gelatinous mass is
formed. When cool, mix with it 3 pints wine, and let it
repose 12 hours in a moderately warm room. Then add
I gallon wine and mix the whole in a wooden vessel; whisk
it with a clean hroom until it foams up. Pour this mixture
gradually in the wine you desire to fine, being careful to
stir the whole continually during the process. Bung up
the cask, and in the course of 48 hours the wine will ap
pear perfectly clear and bright. Isinglass prepared in this
way will precipitate perfectly, and leave no particles sus
pended in the wine.
                          •oo<-




   266. TO FINE WHITE WINE WITH EGGS
  To fine 60 gallons white wine, take the whites of 5 o'" 6
eggs, I egg-shell nearly reduced to powder, and a small
handful of common salt. Beat the whole together in a little
of the wine, with a small clean broom, until it foams, then
pour it into the wine gradually, constantly stirring it all
the while.



             267. TO FINE RED WINE
  This is clarified in the same way. When you have Rous-
sillon, or the dark wines called vin du midi, which are
usually of a deep color, and wish to make it of a lighter
                    GIGGLE WATER                          131

color, add 5 or 6 eggs, yellows, whites, and shells to
gether, with a small handful of salt.



     268. TO FINE A PIPE OF PORT WINE

  Take the whites and shells of ten good eggs, and beat
them up to a froth in a wooden bucket; add I gallon of
Port and whisk it well up to a froth with a clean broom;
draw off 4 gallons, and put the finings in it; stir it up well;
leaving out the bung one day; then bung it up, and in 10
days it will be fit to bottle. If the weather be warm, mix up
I pint silver sand and to the finings.




     269. TO REMEDY ROPINESS IN WINE
   The peculiar cloudy, stringy, oily appearance in wine,
called by the French "graisse," and by the American "ropi-
ness" is occasioned by the presence of a glutinous sub
stance, and is generally observed in those white wines
which do not contain much tannin. M. Frangois, a chemist
first discovered the cause, and pointed out the proper
remedy, in the addition of tannin. He recommended the
use of I pound of the bruised berries of the mountain ash
in a somewhat unripe state, well stirred in each barrel of
the wine to be improved. After agitation, the wine is to be
left to repose a day or two, and then racked off. The tan
nin in the berries by this time will have separated and
precipitated the glutinous matter from the liquid, and re-
132                GIGGLE WATER
moved the ropiness. Wines thus affected cannot be fined
in the regular way, as they do not contain sufficient of the
astringent principle to cause the coagulation or precipita
tion of the finings; this principle must therefore be sup
plied, and for pale white wines, which are the kind chiefly
attacked with ropiness, nothing equals a little pure tannin
or tannic acid dissolved in proof spirit. Red wines contain
so much tannic acid that they are never troubled by ropi
ness. Wine, after having been cured of ropiness, should
immediately be fined and bottled.



                270. TO RIPEN WINE
   Dealers adopt various ways to hasten the ripening of
wine. One of the safest and best plans for this purpose,
especially for strong wines, is to let them remain on the
lees 15 to 18 months before racking off, or, whether
"crude" or "racked," keeping them at a temperature rang
ing between 50° to 60° Fahr. in a cellar free from
draught, and not too dry. Dealers sometimes remove the
bungs or corks, and substitute bladders fastened air-tight.
Bottled wine treated in this way, and kept at about 70°
Fahr. ripens very rapidly. 4 or 5 drops of acetic acid added
to a' bottle of some kinds of new wine, immediately gives
it the appearance of being 2 or 3 years old.


          271. TO REMEDY SOUR WINE
   The souring of wine is produced by various circum
stances, sometimes from its having been kept in a warm




                                                     .jAliii,:'
                    GIGGLE WATER                         i33

cellar where it has been, exposed to draughts of air, often
by the vibration occasioned by the rolling of heavy bodies
over the cellar; but most frequently it originates from the
wine having been imperfectly fermented. The only safe
remedy for the souring of wine is the cautious addition
of a little neutral tartrate of potash; it may also be mixed
with a larger quantity of rich wine of its kind, at the same
time adding a little good brandy. Wine treated in this way
should be fined after having stood 2 or 3 weeks, and then
immediately bottled, and consumed as soon as possible, for
it will never prove a good keeping wine.




  272. TO RESTORE PRICKED OR DECAYING
                           WINE

  If the wine is only thick, add 2 pints of milk to every
30 gallons of wine, and stir 10 minutes. But if the wine
has an inferior taste, or is partly or entirely spoiled, treat
it as follows: Put the 30 gallons wine into a clean cask,
then take 2 pints spirit of wine, 95 per cent; 3 ounces
common salt; i pound white sugar. Dissolve the salt and
sugar in      gallon of the wine, and add the spirit. Then
pour the whole gradually into the wine, being careful to
stir it continually with a stick during the operation. After
the mixture is all poured into the wine, stir the whole for
ID minutes longer. Then add 2 pints milk and continue
stirring 10 minutes more. After some days the wine will
be completely clarified and restored. "Pricked" wine sig
nifies wine which has been slightly soured.
         134                 GIGGLE WATER
          273. TO REMEDY EXCESSIVE ACIDITY IN
                             GERMAN WINE

           Simply add a little chalk. This mode of correcting the
        sourness of wine is perfectly harmless, whereas the per
        nicious practice of using white and vitrified lead for this
        purpose cannot be too much condemned. Lead in any form
        is a poison.


        274. TO RESTORE SOUR WINE WITH POTASH
          To 25 gallons wine, add 4 ounces potash dissolved in
        a little water, and stir well with a stick for 10 minutes.



               275. TO TEST WINES BEGINNING TO
                              DECOMPOSE

           Many persons are unaware of the difference between a
        wine that is beginning to decompose (called in French the
        Poux), and that in which the acetous fermentation has
        commenced. The Poux appears at the bottom of the bar
        rel, while acetification begins at the top. For the first stage
        of the Poux the wine becomes thick, and has a peculiar
        taste termed flat. For the second stage the wine becomes
        still more troubled, and has the taste of stagnant water.
        Finally, in the last stage, when the decomposition has
        reached its maximum, the wine becomes grayish and ap
        pears like muddy water. If some of the wine is put into a
        champagne glass and a pinch of tartaric acid is added, a
        red color will be produced, which will not be the case if
        the wine is in a state of acetous fermentation.




' .di
                   GIGGLE WATER                         135
 276. TO REMOVE MUSTINESS FROM WINE
   The disagreeable taste in wine, generally known as mus-
tiness, is occasioned by the presence of an essential oil.
This may be removed by adding a little sweet or almond
oil, and then violently stirring the wine for some time.
The fixed oil attracts and seizes on the essential oil, and
rises with it to the surface, when it is easily skimmed off,
or the liquid under it drawn off. A few slices of burnt or
toasted bread, or a little bruised mustard seed or coarsely
powdered charcoal, will often have the same effect.




 277. PASTEUR'S METHOD OF PRESERVING
                         WINES

  M. Pasteur announced some time ago that wines became
spoiled in consequence of the presence of microscopic
organisms, which could be destroyed by exposing the wine,
for a few moments only, to a temperature of 131° Fahr.
A committee of experts was appointed to make a compara
tive examination of wines which had and which had not
been subjected to heat; M. Lapparent being President,
and M. Dumas and M. Pasteur assisting. They concluded
that the preservation of wine in bottles is greatly im
proved by heating; that the destruction of the germs is
perfect, without the least impairment of the taste, color
or limpidity of the wines.
136                 GIGGLE WATER
      278. TO DETERMINE THE NATURE OF
                  ACIDITY IN WINE

   If wine has undergone the acetous fermentation, then
convert it at once into vinegar by one of the usual modes.
But if its acidity proceeds from an excess of tartaric acid,
this defect may be remedied by shaking the wine with a
concentrated solution of neutral tartrate of potassa, which,
with the surplus of tartaric acid, will form bitartrate of
potassa, and precipitate as such. To discover the nature of
the acidity, neutralize an ounce or so of the wine with
some carbonate of soda, then add a small quantity of sul
phuric acid, and boil up; if acetic acid or vinegar be pres
ent, it will be perceptible by its odor.




 279. PARENT'S METHOD OF PRESERVING
                           WINE

   This consists in the addition of a small quantity of
tannin or tannic acid to the wine, which perhaps acts in
a similar way, by destroying the vitality of the spores of
the fungus, since a microscopic examination of wine
known to contain these germs, within a few weeks after
being treated with the tannin, has failed to detect the
slightest trace. Indeed, wine which has already begun to
change, and become turbid, can be restored to its primitive
clearness, and with a great improvement in its taste. Care
must be taken, however, to use only tannin which has been
prepared from the constituents of the grape, since the
                   GIGGLE WATER                       137
slightest proportion of the extract of nut-gall, although
accomplishing the general object of destroying the fungus,
will impart a peculiar taste, which never disappears.



 280. ANTIFERMENTS FOR CIDER,                    WINE,
           MALT LIQUORS, ETC.
  Grind or bruise together 13 pounds new mustard seed
and I pound cloves. This mixture may be used with or
without the addition of 10 ounces ground capsicum.



       281. TO INDUCE FERMENTATION

   If fermentation does not begin within a reasonable
time, raise the temperature by covering the vessel with
blankets, and moving it near to a fire. Or, warm a portion
of the must and add it to the rest. A small quantity of
yeast, previously well mixed with some of the liquor,
gently stirred in, will have the same effect. Or, the must
may be warmed by placing large stone bottles, fitted
with boiling water and well corked, in the liquor.
                          «x»o




       282. TO ARREST FERMENTATION
  Dip a strip of linen or cotton, an inch wide and seven
inches long, into melted sulphur. Fasten a wire into the
bung of a 60 gallon cask, so that the end will hang about
138                GIGGLE WATER
the middle of the inside of the cask, bend the end up to
form a hook, place the sulphur tape on the hook, ignite it,
and insert it in the cask, bunging loosely. In about an hour
the cask will be impregnated with sulphurous acid; then
withdraw the match, and fill up with wine, and bung up
tight. This will stop further fermentation. This is a good
plan for white wines, but not for red wines, as sulphur
injures their color. Sulphite (not sulphate) of lime is
also sometimes employed to arrest fermentation.



283. HAHNEMANN'S TEST FOR LEAD IN WINE
   Take i ounce quicklime, 1)^2 ounces flowers of sul
phur ; heat in a covered crucible for 5 or 6 minutes; take 2
drachms of this compound (which is sulphuret of lime),
2 drachms of tartaric acid; powder, mix, and shake in a
stoppered bottle with a pint of water; let it-settle, pour
off the clear liquid, and add      ounces tartaric acid. The
above test will throw down the least quantity of lead from,
wines, as a very sensible black precipitate.



      284. PARIS TEST FOR LEAD IN WINE
   Expose equal parts of sulphur and powdered oyster
shells to a white heat for 15 minutes, and, when cold, add
an equal quantity of cream of tartar; these are to be put
into a strong bottle, with common water, to boil for an
hour, and the solution is afterwards to be decanted into
                    GIGGLE WATER                         139
ounce phials, adding 20 drops muriatic acid to each. Both
the above tests will throw down the least quantity of lead
from wines, as a very sensible black precipitate. As iron
might be accidentally contained in the wine, the muriatic
acid is added to prevent the precipitation of that metal.
This acts in the same manner as Haluiemann's test.




     285. TO DISTINGUISH ARTIFICIALLY
                   COLORED WINES

   As the real coloring matter of wine is of difficult solu-
oility in water free from tartaric acid, Blume proposes
to make this fact of practical use in testing the purity of
wine. A crumb of bread saturated in the supposed wine is
placed in a plate of water; if artificially colored, the water
soon partakes of the color; but if natural, a slight opales-
cence only will be perceptible after a quarter of an hour.




     286. TO DETECT LOGWOOD IN WINE

   M. Lapeymere, having observed that haematine, the
coloring principle of logwood, gives a sky-blue color in
the presence of salts of copper, proposes the following
test for logwood in wines: Paper is saturated with a
strong solution of neutral acetate of copper, and dried.
A strip of this is dipped into the suspected liquor, and,
after removal, the adhering drops are made to move to
and fro over the paper, which is finally to be carefully
I40                GIGGLE WATER
dried. If the wine contain logwood, the paper will assume
a violet-blue color; but if the wine possess its natural
coloring matter the paper will have a grey tint.




 287. TO DETECT ARTIFICIAL COLORING IN
                          WINE

   Use, as test liquid, a solution of potash and a solution
of liquid ammonia and potash. If the wine is colored by
the coloring matter of the grape, potash changes the red
color to a bottle green or brownish-green); ammonia
changes the color to brownish-green or greenish-brown;
a solution of alum to which some potash has been added
gives a dirty grey precipitate.
   If the wine is artificially colored, potash gives the fol
lowing colored precipitates: Dark elder, mulberry, or
beet root gives a violet precipitate; pokewood berries, a
yellow; Indian wood, a violet red; pernambuco, a red; lit
mus, a violet blue; orchil or cudbear, a dirty lees color.
  Or: Pour into the wine to be tested a solution of alum,
and precipitate the alumina it contains, by adding potash,
and the precipitates will have the same characteristics as
above.




             288. GRAPE CHAMPAGNE

  Gather the grapes when they are just turning or about
half ripe; pound them in a tub, and to every quart of
pounded fruit add 2 quarts of water. Let it stand in the
                     GIGGLE WATER                          141

 mash-tub for 14 days, tlien draw it off, and to every gal
 lon of liquor add 3 pounds of loaf sugar. When the
 sugar is dissolved, cask it; and, after it has done working,
 bring it down. In 6 months it should be bottled, and the
 corks tied down or wired. This produces a domestic real
 clrampagne in no way inferior to the genuine imported
 article.
                            •<x»o-



289. IMITATION WHITE FRONTIGNAC WINE
   Boil 18 pounds white powdered sugar, with 6 gallons
water, and the whites of 2 eggs well beaten; then skim
it, and put in ^ peck elder flower from the tree that bears
white berries; do not keep them on the fire. When nearly
cold, stir it, and put in 6 spoonfuls lemon juice, 4 or 5
of yeast, and beat well into the liqiior; stir it every day;
put 6 pounds besf raisins, stoned, into the cask, and tun
the wine. Stop it close, and bottle in 6 months. When well
kept this wine is an excellent imitation of Frontignac.


 290. IMITATION RED FRONTIGNAC WINE
  This is made in the same manner, and with the same
ingredients as the white wine, except that dark elder
flowers are used instead of white.




                             *       'I-**-' '''      -y
rAuW')..:J
                        INDEX


           HOME MADE BRANDIES
NO.                                     PAGE
 1—Apple Brandy                            9
 2—Old Apple Brandy                        9
 3—Blackberry Brandy                       9
 4—Caraway Brandy                         lo
 5—Black Cherry Brandy                    lo
 6—Cherry Brandy                          lo
 7—Orange Brandy                          lo
 8—Raspberry Brandy
 9—How to Prepare Essence of Cognac..     n
10—Imitation Cognac Brandy
11—Imitation Brandy
12—Imitation French Brandy                I3
13—'Imitation Pale Brandy                 I3
14—Blackberry Brandy                      I4
15—Blackberry Brandy                      14
16—Cherry Brandy                          14
17—Peach Brandy                           15


           HOME MADE CORDIALS

18—Anise-Seed Cordial                     19
19—Blackberry Cordial                     19
20—Caraway Cordial                        20
21—Citron Cordial                         20
22—Clove Cordial                          20
                          143
144                      INDEX
 NO.                                    page
 23—Coriander Cordial                    21
 24—Ginger Cordial                       21
 25—Lemon Cordial                        21
 26—Lime Juice Cordial                   22
 27—Strawberry or Raspberry Cordial     '22
 28—Whiskey Cordial                       22
 29—Anisette De Bourdeaux                 23
 30—Creme des Barbadoes                   23
 31—Creme de Noyau de Martinique          24
 32—Creme d'Orange of Superior Flavor    24
 33—Eau de Barbadoes                     25
 34—Eau de Bigarade                      25
 35—Eau Devine                           25
 36—Elephant's Milk                      26
 37—Huile de Venus                       26
38—Lignodella                            26
39—Maraschino                            26
40—Marasquin de Groseilles               27
41—Nectar                                27
42—Noyau                                 27
43—Ratafia                               28
44—Ratafia No. 2                         28
45—Ratafia No. 3                         29
46—Ratafia d'Angelique                   29
47—Ratafia de Bron de Noix               29
  48—Ratafia de Cafe                      30
  49—Ratafia de Cassis                    30
' 50—Ratafia des Cerises                  30
  51—Ratafia de Chocolat                  30
  52—'Dry or Sharp Ratafia                30
  53—Ratafia de Grenober                  31
  54—Ratafia de Noyau                    '31
  55—Ratafia d'Ecorces d'Oranges          31
  56—'Ratafia de Thuro d'Oranges          32
  57—Ratafia a la Violette                32
  58—Usquebaugh, No. i                    32
                        INDEX                       145
 NO.                                            PAGE
59—General Directions for Making Cordials           32
60—Anisette                                         33
61—Champion Anisette                                33
62—Anise Seed Cordial                               34
63—Caraway Cordial                                  34
64—Cordials by Distillation             '           34
65—To Make Absinthe                                 35
66—Fining with Isinglass for Cordials               35
67—To Make Syrups for the Manufacture of Cordials
     and Liquors                                    36
68—King's Cordial                                   36
69—Blackberry Cordial                               37


               HOME MADE GIN

70—Imitation Schiedam Gin                           41
71—Imitation Old Tom London Gin                     41
72—To Clarify Gin or Cordials                       41
73—To Blanch Gin or Other White Liquor              42
74—Finings for Gin                                  42
75—To Remove the Blackness from Gin                 43


        HOME MADE MIXED DRINKS

76—Brandy Cocktail                                  47
78—Improved Brandy Cocktail                         47
79—Whiskey Cocktail                                 48
80—Gin Cocktail                                     48
81—Fancy Vermouth Cocktail                          49
82—Absinthe Cocktail                                49
83—Japanese Cocktail                                49
84—Jersey Cocktail                                  50
85—Manhattan Cocktail                               50
146                     INDEX
NO.                               PAGE
86—Saratoga Cocktail                5°
87—Martinez Cocktail
88—Whiskey Daisy                    5^
 89—Gin Daisy                       5^
 90—Mint Julep                      5^
 91—Gin Julep                       5^
 92—Whiskey Julep                   53
 93—Pineapple Julep                 53
 94—Brandy Smash                    53
 95—Gin Smash                       54
 96—^Whiskey Smash                  54
 97—Brandy Fix                      54
 98—Gin Fix                         55
 99—Whiskey Fix                     55
100—Sherry Cobbler                  55
101—Champagne Cobbler               5^
102—Catawba Cobbler                 5^
103—Claret Cobbler                  5®
104—Sauterne Cobbler                5^
105—Whiskey Cobbler                 57
106—Gin Sour                        57
107—^Whiskey Sour                    57
108—Brandy Sour                      5^
109—Egg Sour                         58
110—Apple Toddy                      5^
111—Cold Brandy Toddy                59
112—Hot Brandy Toddy                 59
113—Cold Gin Toddy                   59
114—Hot Gin Toddy                    60
115—Cold Whiskey Toddy               60
116—Cold Irish Whiskey Toddy         60
117—Egg Nogg                         61
118—Hot Egg Nogg                     "I
119—Sherry Egg Nogg.
120—General Harrison's Egg Nogg      62
121—Whiskey Fiz
                        INDEX        147
NO.                              PAGE
122—Brandy Fiz                        63
123—Gin Fiz                           63
124—Silver Fiz                        63
125—Golden Fiz                        64
126—Brandy Sling                      64
127—Gin Sling                         64
128—Hot Gin Sling                     65
129—Whiskey Sling                     65
130—Hot Whiskey Sling                 65
131—Hot Spiced Rum                    66
132—Hot Rum                           66
133—Blue Blazer                       66
134—Tom and Jerry                     67
135—How to Serve Tom and Jerry        68
136—Tom Collins Whiskey               68
137—Tom Collins Brandy                68
138—Tom Collins Gin                   69
139—Hot Brandy Flip                   69
140—Hot Rum Flip                      69
141—Hot Whiskey Flip                  69
142—Hot Gin Flip                      7°
143—Cold Brandy Flip                  70
144—Cold Rum Flip                •    7°
145—Cold Gin Flip                     7^
146—Cold Whiskey Flip       ;;        7^
147—Port Wine Flip                    7^
148—Sherry Wine Flip                  7^
149—Port Wine Sangaree                7^
150—Sherry Sangaree                   7^
151—Brandy Sangaree                   7^
152—Gin Sangaree                      73
153—Ale Sangaree                      73
154—Gin Punch                         73
155—Hot Irish Whiskey Punch           74
156—Hot Scotch Whiskey Punch          74
157—Cold Whiskey Punch                74
 148                     INDEX
NO.                                     PAGE
158—Arrack Punch                          75
159—Milk Punch                            75
160—Hot Milk Punch                        75
161—Manhattan Milk Punch                  76
162—Egg Milk Punch                        76
163—Claret Punch                          76
164—Sauterne Punch                        77
165—^Vanilla Punch                        77
166—Sherry Punch                          77
167—^Roman Punch                          78
168—Champagne Punch                       78
i6g—Mississippi Punch                     79
170—Imperial Punch                        79
171—Hot Brandy and Rum Punch              80
172—^Ale Punch                            80
173—Cider Punch                           81
174—Hot English Rum Flip                  81
175—Hot English Ale Flip                  82
176—Sleeper                               82
177—White Tiger's Milk                    82
178—Brandy Straight                       83
179—Pony Brandy                           83
180—Brandy and Soda                       84
181—Brandy and Ginger Ale                 84
182—Split Soda and Brandy                 84
183—Rhine Wine and Seltzer Water          84
184—Shandy Gaff                           85
185—Half and Half                         85
186—"Arf and Arf"                         85
187—Absinthe and Water                    85
188—French Method of Serving Absinthe     86
  189—Rock and Rye                        86
  190—Stone Fence                         86
, 191—Brandy Cocktail for Bottling        86
  192—Gin Cocktail for Bottling           88
 193—Bourbon Cocktail for Bottling        88
                            INDEX               149

           ELEVEN FAMOUS COCKTAILS
                                                PAGE

1. Bronx                                          90
2. Aster                                          90
3. Bacardi                                        90
4. Clover                                         90
5. Dry Martini                                    90
6.    Perfect                                     9^
7. Cooperstown                                    91
 8. Chris                                         9^
9. Martini                                        91
10. Liberty                                       9^^
11. Manhattan                                     91

                 HOME MADE WINES
NO.
194—Coloring for Wines                            96
      —Fining or Clearing                         97
196—To Flavor Wine                                97
197—To Mellow Wine                                97
158—To Remove the Taste of the Cask from Wine     98
X99—To Remove Ropiness from Wine                  98
200—To Restore Wine When Sour or Sharp            98
201—To Make Apple Wine                            9^
202—Apricot Wine                                  99
203—Blackberry Wine                               99
204—American Champagne                           too
205—British Champagne                            100
206—Burgundy Champagne                           100
207—Champagne Cider                              toi
208—Sham Champagne                               loi
209—Sherry Bounce                                tot
210—To Make Cherry Wine                          102
211—Boiling Cider                                102
212—To Clear Cider                               103
213—Cider Champagne                              103
 I50                      INDEX

^0*                                             PAGE
214—Cider Wine                                   104
215—To Make Fine Clary Wine                      104
216—^Currant Wine                                105
217—Daisy Wine                                   105
218—Dandelion Wine                               105
2ig—Elder Flower Wine                            106
220—Elderberry Wine                              106
221—English Fig Wine                             106
222—To Make Frontignac Wine                      107
223—To Make Gooseberry Wine                      107
224—Red and White Gooseberry Wine                108
225—White Gooseberry or Champagne Wine           108
226—Grape Wine                                   108
227—Hot Beer                                    105
228—^Juniper-Berry Wine                          no
229—Lemon Wine                                   no
230—Madeira Wine                                 no
231—Malt Wine, or English Sherry                 ni
232—To Make Orange Wine                         in
233—To Make Palermo Wine                        112
234—To Make Peach Wine                          112
235—Plum Wine                                   nj
236—Porter                                      n^
237—Porter, for Bottling                        113
238—Port Wine                                   114
239—Raisin Wine                                 114
240—Raisin Wine with Sugar                      114
241—To Make Raspberry Wine                      115
242—Raspberry Wine                              115
243—Rhubarb Wine                                n6
244—Sherry Wine                                 n6
245—London Sherry Wine                      _   116
246—Strawberry Wine                             117
247—Champagne                                   117
248—'To Make a Filter for Filtering Wines       117
249—To Make Syrup for Champagne Wine            118
                        INDEX                           151

NO.                                                 PAGE
250—To Prepare Isinglass for Fining Wines               118
251—To Prepare Champagne Wine for Charging              119
252—To Charge Champagne with Gas                        119
253—California Champagne                                120
254—Imitation French Champagne                          120
255—Cheap Champagne                                     121
256—The Use of Glycerine in Wine                        121
257—Electricity as an Agent for Improving Whiskey and
       Wines                                            122
258—Home Made Wines                                     122
259—General Receipt for the Preparation of Home Made
       Wine from Ripe Saccharine Fruits                 124
260—General Receipt for Making Wine from Dry Sac
       charine Fruit                                    125
261—Imitation Champagne                                 125
262—To Make Blackberry Wine                             126
263—Specimen Process to Make Unripe Grape, Currant,
       Gooseberry and Rhubarb Wine                      127
264—To Fine Wine Difficult to Clarify, or Thick in Con
      sequence of an Imperfect Fermentation            129
265—To Fine Madeira or Any Kind of Wine with Isin
     glass                                              ^30
266—To Fine White Wine with Eggs                        130
267—To Fine Red Wine                                    130
268—To Fine a Pipe of Port Wine                         131
269—To Remedy Ropiness in Wine                          131
270—To Ripen Wine                                       ^32
271—To Remedy Sour Wine                                 132
272—To Restore Pricked or Decaying Wine                  133
273—To Remedy Excessive Acidity in German Wine           134
274—To Restore Sour Wine with Potash                     134
275_To Test Wines Beginning to Decompose                 134
276—To Remove Mustiness from Wine                        135
277—Pasteur's Method of Preserving Wines                 135
278—To Determine the Nature of Acidity in Wine           136
279—Parent's Method of Preserving Wine                   136
152                     INDEX
NO.                                                  PAGE
280—^Antiferments for Cider, Wine, Malt Liquors, etc.. 137
281—To Induce Fermentation                             137
282—To Arrest Fermentation                             137
283—Hahnemann's Test for Lead in Wine                  138
284—Paris Test for Lead in Wine                        138
285—To Distinguish Artificially Colored Wines          139
286—To Detect Logwood in Wine                          139
287—To Detect Artificial Coloring in Wine              140
288—Grape Champagne                                    140
289—Imitation White Frontignac Wine                    141
290—Imitation Red Frontignac Wine                      141
        • ,    ' .,t              ''
               • , . Vv-'i -.• '
         •;. -M/l'.
      .' ' V                       v'^.-
         .     : .•    .... f '
                                                   "• •               '   ijl




                                                   *^.,v



t P




                                           '   •    ' '.   I-. T .i
                                                    ', •    '        \ • • '".''A> ;\t''»''^
             ys »V
         (
•'.!')       •
                     I H W^lhBl^L MHh'iLi >III! •      :--»X v-. .       J
                u




                    I .

                      >




••..u   .-'-I
               •. -J




iif'.




      ,i       ,1




 K-l

k'         .



?•;
                                  *1*'' '




                                                    '*       t




                                                                 •*



                                                                 r:' .V;;




                                                                          1      J>
                                                                                l»
                                                                                -'J




                                                                            i

                                                                      "mi
             «•      *                                                    -I
                                                                      U   '•'

//                              •••




                         '              '   '   I        »       •'

     : '   ..r ' '           ••'I'*.' ••'           ''' • '•
"ijAu'V " ••''V'ii. •/
I v.




                           *• ' i-M




             ,.   .1, ••••<! <i»'J




       f /
                                                              TTf-'rv-i-pry-»i! r '5"^1'' f-'' 'HI'                '"JH
                                                   •      -



                                                   • v'




 w
       l».' r
                                                                                                                         .ct




                                                                                                            •: .., J


       yl.':'-''.

       yv •
b >,                                                                                                        ;
          A!
                                                                                                            ?h*.       I
       Ciif-
                                                                                                      A,i ••' '^iJijjj




.Of-
           :L^ / .   • •*i'^--'-f'f-'   .'i-rt V
