            ·'




      The Drinks of resteryear
            a Mixology

Being the 200 Authentic Favorite Formulas of a Pre,Volstead
        "Wine Clerk" Who Long Smilingly Served


                       ALL MEN
                            and
                      YALE MEN
                            and
         ALL THEIR GOODLY COMPANY




      Whatsoever ''Little Hearts Desire"



                      Indexed with


        Foreword of Fond Recollections
                 General Instructions
                           and
Allusional Headnotes to Individual Recipes
 Copyright, 1930
BY J E RE SULLI VAN




                      l
THE DRINKS OF YESTERYEAR
           A
       MIXOLOGY




     JERE SULLIVAN
Should auld acquaintance be forgot,
   And ne'er be brought to mind?
Should auld acquaintance be for got,
   And auld lang syne?




        With the co-operation of
       HOWARD W.MURPHY
    The Drinks of Yesteryear
         a Mixology

Cocktails, Cobblers, Coolers, Cordials, Daisies,
Flips, Fizzes, Freezes, Highballs, Juleps, Punches,
Rickeys, Smashes, Sours, Sangarees and Toddies




                INDEXED
             WITH FOREWORD


        "GENERAL DIRECTIONS"


                 HEADNOTES




                        BY
                JERE SULLIVAN
                    Foreword
                               ..
   The Author was for twenty years a " Wine Clerk." P er-
haps, though, "Wine Clerk" needs today, under t he Volsteadian
Eclipse, illumination of definit ion. H e was one of those gentle-
men, and they were gentlemen, who mixed and served what-
ever "little hearts desired," at and from the m ahogany bars of
all high-class cafes, clubs and hotels. And to secure such
occupation in the Liberal Age required- have no doubts of
it-long qualifying years of· training and experience, f'?r ~e
v.:as truly an artist in liquors, and as surely as the artist m
oils, had to mature to acceptable perfection for the patrons of
his art.
    The Author, himself, was apprenticed as a young m an to
 the leading wholesalers of his native New England St.a te-to
 l~ from them basically and comprehensively the w_hole
 sub1ect of the varieties, qualit ies and care of liquors and wmes.
 After a year he became attached to the corps of admittedly
 the most epicurean hotel and restaurant east of t he Hudson
 River, where in a service of three years he studied the applied
  ~ of compounding and properly serving " mixed and fancy
  drinks" for a clientele of most refined and exacting tastes.
  This training and experience gave him currency as a qualified
  "Wine Clerk" and opened t o him, for expert's finesse, ex:npioy-
  ment successively at a select old Boston Club, a n ationally
  known rendesvouz in Washington, a Broadway Rest~urant,
  t wo of the most fastidious hotel bars of New York City and
  lastly, for years before The Drought , at a Yale world-famous
  hostelry in New H aven, Connecticut. .
     So that the Author confidently regards himself as an ac-
  corded authority on t he subject matter of this volume. It
  represents a cull of the sum total of his " tricks of the trade"
  accumulated as just outlined.
     What he gives under the headings "General Directions ~d
  Care of Bottled Goods" can be relied upon as perfectly m-
                                [61
  formed and trustworthy advices prepared long ago and dis-
  tributed by him for years to requesting fellow "Wine Clerks"
  and desiring patrons.
     The Mixology proper comprises the authentic formulas for
 mixed and faricy drinks always employed by the Author him-
 self and adopted in many instances after knowledge of and
 experiment with other variations.
    Headnotes of interesting allusions to persons and occasions
 favorite, have been supplied by the Author for many of the
 individual formulas.
    The index has been prepared so as to simply group the
 formulas under general headings (viz., cocktails, coolers,
 punches, etc.) and give the including pages-a method which
 the Author believes will be altogether satisfactory.
    The drinks of yesteryear hold memories for the Author
 which he wishes he could convey. For twenty years he smil-
ingly served, as he relishes to state it- All Men and Yale Men
 and All their Goodly Company, in Boston, Washington, New
 York and New Haven; the World truly passed in review
before his bar, and to paraphrase-" by their drinks, you would
know them"! The Back Bay Aristocrat and State Street
Financier- how critically they sayored their Ward Eight and
Brookline Special! The Southern Congressman- how deeply
he drank of his mint julep! The Broadway Favorite- how
she smiled with her Princess! The Yale Professor-how good
an old fashioned cocktail or toddy seemed to him! All drinks
for all men! Cosmopolitan travellers, foreign visitors, Amer-
ican notables of every field, Celebrities of the day, Statesmen
and Politicians of highest rank and mean degree, Anny Gener-
als and Navy Admirals, professional leaders of the country,
Wall Street Bankers and Wall Street Brokers, the New York
Four Hundred, the New York newspapermen, the English
actor, the Russian author, the French artist, the Danseuse of
the Century, the Stars of the American and British Stages,
Follies Beauties, the everyday "drummer", the local elite.
Star Athletes, Golf Champions, renowned sportsmen, far-
famed football coaches, and a whole galaxy of Faculty Mem-
bers, Alumni and Undergraduates in all the high colored
fraternizations of university life-recite some of the partakers
                              (7)
    of the Author's dispensings and number many in the host of
    his friendships. And all the ladies of charm and smartness
    who graced a thousand festive settings served by him! Yet
    he never served a flapper. And her hipflash was to him un-
    known.
       However, nothing marks the mores of those days more
)   strongly with him than the keen remembrances of one of our
    then three foremost Americans--coming in every lunch hour
    with a cheery "Good-day" and "A dry Martini, and make it
    extra dry!" Respectably, honorably and mentionably!
       Pleasantest of all the Author's memories twine themselves
    around his contact with Yale men. He mixed and dispensed
    for a legion of them as undergraduates, Alumni and Faculty
    members. Their favorite drinks of yesteryear will be found
    in this mixology with headnote allusions. The Copper Kettle
    Punch exclusively steeped in their traditions, herein finds its
    first publication. And while they staged their fling, he can
    truthfully record there were no scandalizing conditions in
     attendance. They drank always as true Gentlemen and to
    his mind with lasting good to their after-lives in terms of
     experience, disillusionment and above all, of comraderie and
     sublimated friendships. Real, never snobbish, ever demo-
     cratic and generous to a fault, Sociability ruled them, and
     with a "Here's to Good Old Yale, Drink'er Down! Drink'er
     ~own!" infused them for aye with that spirit, proverbially
     incomparable- the Yale Spirit!
        In conclusion, by Historian rather than Contemporary
     Artist, it may be complained this "opus" has been done.
     But there is THE LAW! And, anyhow, entitling it "The
     Drinks of Yesteryear" gave a smile for a change these "dry"
     days to the face of
                                            THE AUTHOR.




                                  (8]
                  As It Was Writ:
      (Prepared long ago and distributed for years by the
             Author to Wine Clerks and Patrons)

 "BEFORE THE GREAT SAHARA BECAME THE U.S.A."

                  GENERAL DIRECTIONS

   To properly mix drinks, you should have at hand:

Mixing Glass-a glass measuring 12 or 14 oz., heavy thickness.
Shaker- a metal container to fit over mixing glass.
J igger-a metal measure holding one ounce.
Cockta£l Spoon-a long handled spoon to stir.
Muddler-a wooden stick to crush fruit and loaf sugar.

    Avoid all guesswork in measuring ingredients. Use a jigger
 or a small once-ounce glass until you become proficient about
 the exact amount called for in a drink.
    Ice should always be washed before using. Fine or shaved
 ice should be used when serving spirits or cordials frapped;
chopped ice for cocktails, fizzes and punches; cubes or lumps
 for highballs and rickeys.
    Fruit should always be fresh and ripe for obtaining the best
of flavor. When fruits are not in season, use reliable brands
of preserved fruit.
   Fancy drinks or quantity drinks are usually well garnished
or ornamented with fruit-such as sours, daisies and punches.
   In using such fruit as oranges, peaches, grapefruit and pine-
apple for cocktails, the fruit should always be muddled or
crushed in mixing glass before shaking drink.
   In mixing drinks using eggs, care should be taken to have
the eggs strictly fresh; egg drinks should always be shaken
well.
                              [9]
    When drinks require sugar or plain syrup, b e careful not to
make them too sweet; too little sugar or syrup is far better
than too much. (You can add to suit t aste. )
    Drinks in which eggs and milk are used sh ould be well
shaken when mixed. First place su gar , then eggs, liquor and
milk, in order; finally strain. Nutmeg should be sprinkled
on t op to flavor.
    When making egg and milk drinks in qu antity at home,
first whip or beat the eggs, sugar and milk a nd then add the
 principal ingredient, mixing all t ogeth er thoroughly .
    When making hot egg noggs or hot rums or other spirits
 using milk in quantity, pour the principal ingr edient slowly
 and have the mixture stirred or whipped briskly during the
 process; otherwise the milk will curdle .
    To make a cocktail palatable and pleasing to taste, remem-
 ber care should be taken in m easuring the different ingredients.
 !he careful blending of liquors and cordials goes a long way
 m making a cocktail a success.
     Never be too anxious in the using of bitters ; two or three
 drops are enough for a cocktail; when making two or more
 cocktails at a time, use in proportion.                            .
     Juice of a quarter of an orange or a small p iece of gra pe frwt
 or pineapple is enough for an individual cocktail.
     In mixing cocktails, flips, fizzes, sours and d a isies, always
 use small lumps of ice.
     A Martini or a Manhattan cockt ail should be stirred with a
 spoon instead of sh aken unless the individua l cares to h a ve
  it shaken. (Results cloudy .)
     In shaking a cocktail, a few seconds only should b e r equired,
  as the drink will weaken with continuous shaking; the cock-
  t ails in which orange, pineapple or grapefruit are used, if
  muddled or crushed properly , require very little shaking.
      Always strain shaker mixture before pouring same into
  glass t o serve; a cherry or a n olive is generally added to a
   ~ocktail ; a lemon or orange peel twist ed over a cocktail gives
   it an added flavor.
      A cocktail is generally t aken before eating, acting as an
   appetizer or stimulat or ; a post prandial aid t o digestion is
   the cordial.
                                [10]
                CARE OF BOTTLED GOODS
    Champagne should never be kept on ice. It should be kept
 in a cool place and iced only when service or use will be prompt.
   Champagne bottles when full, in fact any wine (charged),
should be kept lying down; if not, the cork becomes dry and
gas is liable to escape resulting in the loss of strength.
   This same goes for any other bottled liquor, preventing the
strength from being lost.
   When Champagne is to be used for medicinal purposes, it
is well to have on hand a Champagne bottle faucet or tap to
insert into the original cork so you can draw off a small quan-
tity at a time without allowing any escape of gas, causing the
loss of strength.
   Clarets, Rhine wines, Sherry and Port and other still wines
should not be left at too cold a temperature and when pouring
glasses to serve, the bottle should be handled steadily to
prevent sediment that may be in the bottle from being dis-
turbed.
   All bottles containing these wines when laid away should
be placed on their sides.
   Cordials should never be kept on ice. They should be
cooled gradually. Whiskey is usually kept on ice.
   Brandy and Old Cognac lose smoothness when chilled.
   Syphons of Seltzer and Mineral Waters should not be kept
directly on ice, but stored in a cool place or refrigerator and
chilled gradually instead.




                               [11]
    FORMULAS




       [12 ]


J
                       Cocktails
                                 ..
     The Cocktail was generally regarded as an American inven-
  tion. In the opinion of the Author, it had come to be the
  great American drink upon the advent of Prohibition. Indeed,
  it had reached the status of a social institution. The National
  Appetizer would be a fair entitlement for it. It was the pre-
  lude to at least every formal meal. But its use had been more
  and more widely extended until it became the presiding drink
  of most every genial greeting and good fellowship meeting-
  from cockcrow to cockcrow.
    For instructions particular to the making of cocktails,
 " General Directions", as previously printed was always
 recommended.
    The Author submits following one hundred formulas for
 the same number of cocktails and believes that they will
 manifest themselves as covering almost the whole possible
range of the variations of this drink. Certainly, they represent
the one hundred most popular and most used formulas when
drinking was public and amateur mixers had not gone daft in
trying by efforts of their own to approximate the enjoyed
standards of the old regime.
    They will be found perfectly comprehensive and truly
recording the cocktails of every social stratum used upon all
sorts of occasions in the "good old days."




                              (13]
                           A&B
A drink of           1/3 Gin
Senatorial Pals.     1/3 French Vermouth
                     1/3 Apricot Brandy
                     Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.

                          Absinthe
Good in the A. M.,   1 Dash of Angostura Bitters
o:fter the P. M.     1 Very small drink of Absinthe
                     Add a little water in mixing glass
                     Shake well and strain into claret glass.

                        After Dinner
Answered the         Juice of half a lime
name.                1/2 Apricot Brandy
                     1/2 Italian Vermouth
                     Strain into cocktail glass.

                          Alexander
A very popular       1/3 Creme-de-Cocoa
cocktail every-      1/3 Cream or Milk
where.               1/3 Dry Gin
                     Strain into claret glass.

                          Alhambra
Favor£te of          1/3 French Vermouth
Famous Yale Foot-    2/3 Gin (dry)
ball Coaches.        1 Dash of Absinthe          .
                     Shake and strain into cocktail glass.

                          Amherst
Amherst Men's        1/2 Creme de Yvette
Own                  1/2 Absinthe                     .
                     Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.
                      ''Andy's Special"
A Premon£t£on of     Juice of half an orange
Andrew Volstead!     Juice of half of lime
                     3/4 Jigger Italian Vermouth
                     1 Pony of Grenadine
                     1 Jigger of Tom Gin
                     White of an egg
                     Shake well and strain into claret glass.
                             [14)
                       Army & Navy
 For Army Generals 1/3 Bacardi Rum
 and Navy Admirals. Dash of Grenadine
                    Juice of half of lime
                    A little sugar
                    Shake and strain into cocktail glass.
                             Bacardi
 Born in Cuba, but    1/2 Bacardi Rum
 adopted by the       1/2 Italian Vermouth
  U.S.A., having tens Dash of Peychand Bitters
 of thousands of      Orange rind
 Ameri"can parents.   Spoon well and strain into cocktail glass.
                        Another Bacardi
                      Juice of half of lime
                      Drink of Bacardi Rum
                      Add very little sugar
                      Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.
                            Bamboo
The Request of        Dash of orange bitters
one of our Greatest   1/2 Italian Vermouth
Military Leaders.     1/2 Sherry Wine
                      Spoon well and strain into cocktail glass.

                             Bijou
From. Pan's by        1/3 Dry Gin
a French Artz'st.     1/3 French Vermouth
                      1/3 Greene Chartreuse
                      Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.
                   Bishops Blessing
A Popular Wedding 1/3 Sloe Gin
Attendant.        1/3 Dry Gin
                  1/3 French Vermouth
                  Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.

                       Blackthorn
A Diplomatic Corps 1/2 Sloe Gin
Favorz'te.         1/2 French Vermouth
                   Dash of Absinthe
                   Spoon well and strain into cockta~ glass.
                              (15]
                          Blue Moon
T he Freshman's      l /3 French Vermouth
Introduct£on.        l /3 Dry Gin
                     1/3 Creme de Yvette
                     Shake well and strain into claret glass.
                           Brandy
Dear to Tammany      3 or 4 dash es of simple syrup or Maras-
Politicians.           chino
                     2 dashes of Angostura bitters
                     1 wine glass of brandy
                     Shake and strain into cocktail glass
                     T wist a lemon p eel over same.
                             Bronx
The New Yorker's     Dash or the juice of 1/4 Orange
Own.                 1/3 I talian Vermouth
                     1/3 French Vermouth
                     1/3 Dry Gin                      .
                     Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.
                          Brothers
                     1/3 Creme de Cocoa
                     1/3 Creme de Yvette
                     1/3 Brandy
                     Shake and stra in into cocktail glass.
                     Bunch of Violets
The Yale "Bouquet." 1/3 Gin
                    1/3 White Creme de M enth e
                    1/3 Creme de Yvette              .
                    Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.
                          Button
A very famous       1/2 French Vermouth
Yale Football       1/2 Jamaica Rum
Captain's "Same!"   Add a dash of Grenadine
                    Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.
                         Campus
Known by all        A large piece of grapefruit with rind on
Yale men.           Muddle or crush well
                    2/3 Gin
                    1/3 M araschino
                    Shake well and strain into claret glass.
                            [ 16)
                        Champagne
A New York Hotel A long stem glass or champagne glass
Magnate's Prescrip- Loaf of sugar
tz"on after a Night Dash of Angostura bitters
Out.                Drink of champagne
                    Lemon peel
                    Stir same before drinking

                          Charlie's
Because it           Dash or juice of 1/2 lime
made you walk        1/3 Dubonett Wine
like him.            2/3 Apricot Brandy
                     Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.

                           Charmer
A big, big,          2/3 Sloe Gin
Business Man's       1/3 Apricot Brandy
After-dinner.        Good dash of lime juice
                     Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.

                            Chase
Authorized by a New l/3 Dry Sherry
Haven merchant-     1/3 Dubonnet Wine
Plagiarized by New l/3 Dry Gin
York hotels.        Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.

                          Chicago
The College Youth's 1/3 French Vermouth
Repeater.           1/3 Absinthe
                    1/3 Green Creme de Menthe
                    Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.

                     Chocolate or Coffee
For Ladies           1/3 B. B. Brandy
and Gentlemen.       2/3 Port Wine
                     One whole egg.

                        Clover Club
                     Same as above without egg
Broadway             Shake well, using cocktail glass.
                             (17]
                         Clover Leaf
 Resturant           White of an egg
 Favorites.          Dash of Grenadine Syrup
                     1/3 French Vermouth
                     2/3 Gin
                     A dash of lime juice
                     Shake well and strain into claret glass.
                          Colonial
All Old Yale         Grapefruit juice
Men remember         1/3 Maraschino
Colonz"al Inn.       2/3 Gin
                     Shake well and strain into claret glass.
                        Consolidation
A Tremont Street     Dash of Angostura Bitters
Hotel Protege.       1/3 Italian Vermouth
                     1/3 French Vermouth
                     1/3 Cider Brandy
                     Add orange rind       .
                     Shake well and strain mto cocktail glass.
                       Cooperstown
 UP-slaters asked   1/3 French Vermouth
for it.             1/3 Italian Vermouth
                    1/3 Gin               .
                    Add a few sprigs of mint
                    Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.
                          Cuban
L iked in           1/2 Bacardi Rum
Washing ton.        1/2 Dry Gin          .
                    Good dash of Grenadine
                    Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.
                         Czarina
The Grande         1/2 orange juice    .
Danseuse's Demand. Dash of Peychand bitters
                   1/2 Vodka          . .          .
                   Shake well and strain mto cocktail glass.
                        Dartmouth
Dartmouth Men       1/2 Absinthe
knew it.            1/2 Creme de MentJ:le _(green)  .
                    Shake well and stram into cocktail glass.
                           [18]
                             Dickens
Favorite Bostonian     1/2 lemon juice
Club Cocktail.         1/2 Bacardi Rum
                       Little sugar
                       Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.

                              Dixie
Beloved of             1/3 Maraschino
Southern Senators.     1/3 Benedictine
                       1/3 White Creme de Menthe
                       Juice of a whole lime
                       Shake well and strain into claret glass.

                         Doggone Good
Great American         1/2 White Menthe
L eague Pitchers'      1/2 St. Croix Rum
Fancy.                 Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.

                             Duchess
The College            1/3 French Vermouth
Widow's Delight.       1/3 Italian Vermouth
                       1/3 Absinthe
                       Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.

                            Dynamite
Well-known play-       Take old-fashioned whisky glass and
wright and song          cover bottom with Absinthe
writer's recommen-     One lump of ice and lemon peel
dation.                Add 1/2 drink of French Vermouth
                       Dash of Peychand bitters
                       Drink of Gin
                       Stir with a spoon- ready to drink.

                     Father's (old-fashioned)
The old-timer's        Use old fashioned whiskey glass
drink.                 1/2 lump of sugar
                       3 dashes of Peychand bitters
                       3 dashes of Italian Vermouth
                       Piece of pineapple
                       Lump of ice
                       Drink of whiskey.
                               (19 ]
                      Fourth Degree
The Broadway        Three-fifths P lymouth Gin
T heatregoers.      One-fifth French Vermouth
                    One-fifth Italian Vermouth
                    D ash of Absinthe.

                          Gaby's
Born in Student's   1/2 Creme de Yvette
R iot.              1/4 Italian Vermouth
                    1/4 White M enthe
                    Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.

                          Gibson
Art Student's       1/2 Plymouth Dry Gil!           .
Favorite.           Shake well and strain mto cocktail glass.
                    Add a small pickled onion.

                          Graham
The Vogue of a      1/3 French Vermouth
Famous English-     1/3 Italian Vermouth
man's Visits.       1/3 Cider Brandy
                    Rind of an orange               ·.
                    Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.

                       Grasshopper
Collegian's         1/2 Creme de Cocoa
Favorite.           1/2 Creme de Menthe (green)      .
                    Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.

                         H.P.W.
Fancy of the        1/3 French Vermouth
Four Hundred.       1/3 Italian Vermouth
                    1/3 Dry Gin                      .
                    Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.

                           Harriett
His Best            J uice of half a lime
Girl's Drink.       1/2 Irish Whiskey
                    1/2 Italian Vermouth
                    Dash of Grenadine
                    Shake well and strain into claret glass.
                            [20)
                           Hazel Nut
Middle W estern.      1/4 French Vermouth
                      1/4 Italian Vermouth
                      1/2 Gin
                      Sprig of Mint
                      Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.

                             Helen
The Actress'          1/3 Italian Vermouth
Own Formula.          2/3 Gin
                      White of one egg
                      Dash of Grenadine Syrup
                      Juice of half an orange
                      Shake well and strain into claret glass.

                           Hoptoad
A Collegiate.         Juice of half a lime
                      Add drink of Apricot Brandy
                      Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.

           •                  Ideal
Worthy of its         1/3 Italian Vermouth
name.                 1/3 French Vermouth
                      1/3 Gin
                      Juice of 1/4 Grapefruit
                      Shake and strain into cocktail glass.

                         International
From Europe by        1/3 Russian Kummel
a Russian Author.     1/3 French Vermouth
                      1/3 Dry Gin
                      Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.

                          Jacq-Rose
"Mighty Lak a         1/3 French Vermouth
Rose"- B eautiful for 2/3 Cider Brandy
women's parties.      White of 1 egg
                      Dash of Grenadine Syrup
                      Juice of half a lime
                      Shake well and strain into claret glass.
                               (21]
                         Jere's Special
The Author's Own      Dash of Grenadine
Creation for a        1/3 Italian Vermouth
Boston Club.          1/3 Dubonnet Wine
                      1/3 Irish Whiskey
                      Shake well and strain into claret glass.
                           Katinka
From London          1/3 Sherry Wine
with the Show.       2/3 Dubonnet Wine
                     Shake and strain into cocktail glass.

                        King's Bridge
Brother of the       1/3 Italian Vermouth
Bronx.               1/3 French Vermouth
                     1/3 Dry Gin
                     Piece of crushed pineapple
                     Shake well and strain into claret glass.

                       Knickerbocker
Right f ram 42nd     Dash of lemon juice
Street and Broadway. Dash of Grenadine Syrup
                     2/3 Gin
                     1/3 Brandy
                     Shake well and strain into claret glass.

                          Leap Frog                               '
Student's Own.       Juice of one lime
                     1 drink of Apricot Brandy        .
                     Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.
                            Lee
A Washington        1/3 Gin
Club's Premier.     1/3 Creme de Yvette
                    1/3 Dubbonet Wine
                    Shake and strain into cocktail glass.
                            Lily
Much in demand at   Juice of half a lime
Club Bars.          Juice of half an orange
                    Little sugar
                    Drink of Cider Brandy
                    Shake well and strain into claret glass.
                            (22 1
                          ''Looney"
Commemorating      1/4 Gin
a N ew York murder 1/4 Brandy
trial.             1/4 Italian Vermouth
                   1/4 French Vermouth
                   Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.

                           Majestic
Originated by a      Dash of Fernet Brancha Bitters
foremost Broadway    1/3 Orange Gin
wine clerk.          2/3 Vermouth (either kind)
                     Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.

                          Manhattan
                     1/3 Italian Vermouth
                     2/3 R ye Whiskey
                     Stir and strain into cocktail glass
                     Add cherry.
                         Martini Dry
                     2/3 Gin
                     1/3 French Vermouth
                     Add an olive
                     Shake and strain into cocktail glass.

                        Martini Sweet
Classics.            1/3 Italian Vermouth
                     2/3 Gin
                     Shake and strain into cocktail glass.
                     Add a cherry.
                         Martinique
                     1/2 St. Croix Rum
                     1/2 R ye Whiskey
                     Dash of Orange Curacco
                     Shake and strain into cocktail glass.

                        Merry Widow
After the            1/2 Dubonnet Wine
Theatre Favorite.    1/2 Gin
                     Dash of Grenadine Syrup
                     Shake and strain into cocktail glass.
                             (23]
                            Mud Scow
 A Man's Drink-         Dash of Calicaya bitters
 Taken by a dis-        1/3 Blackberry Brandy
 tinguished Federal     2/3 Whiskey
 Jurist.                Shake and strain into cocktail glass.

                              Nassau
 Long I sland           1/2 Dubonnet Wine
 Society's Own.         1/2 Orange Gin
                        Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.

                              Nu-Life
 Revivifier.            1/4 French Vermouth
                        3/4 Dry Gin
                        Add a good dash of Absinthe:
                        Shake and strain into cocktail glass.

                             Oh My!
 "~hat a kick!"         3/4 Creme de Yvette        ··
 Said the Musz'cal      1/4 Absinthe                  .
 Comedy Star.           Shake and strain into cocktail glass.
                            Ojen
Made You feel        Small drink of Ojen
Young-if you're not. Two dashes of Peychand bitters
                     Stir while slowly adding Seltzer.
                     Served in claret glass.
                      Old Fashioned Whiskey
                        Use an old fashioned Whiskey glass
                        1/2 lump of sugar         .
                        Dash or two of Angostura bitters
                        Little Water
Known                   Lump of ice
                        Slice of orange
                        Lemon peel
of all                  Drink of Whiskey
                       Stir with a spoon.
                       Old Fashioned Gin
men.
                       Same as Old Fashioned Whiskey, ollly
                         using Gin as the base.
                               (24)




                                          -   -   -- - - - -    ---
1




                            Orange Blossom
    A Debutante's         1/3 Orange juice
    Start.                2/3 Gin
                          Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.

                           Peg O' My Heart
    Th£s won the          1/3 Green Chartreuse
    Country like the      2/3 Gin
    Show.                 Dash of peppermint
                          Shake and strain into cocktail glass.

                                Perfect
    Broker's Favorite.    1/3 French Vermouth
                          1/3 Italian Vermouth
                          1/3 Gin
                          Add orange peel
                          Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.

                                Plympton
    Known in               1/2 St. Croix Rum
    Exclusive Clubs.       1/2 Italian Vermouth
                           Add orange peel
                           Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.

                                   Polo
     The Call of the       1/3 Italian Vermouth
     International Polo    1/3 French Vermouth
     Crowd.                1/3 Gin
                           Muddle or crush a piece of peach
                           Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.

                                Powhatan
     A Virginia Con-      2 dashes of Benedictine
     gressman's Creation. 2 slices of orange
                          1 drink of Dubonnet Wine
                          Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.

                                Princess
     Beloved of Women      Dash of lemon juice or lime
     of the Stage.         Dash of Grenadine syrup
                           Very little sugar
                           Drink of Bacardi Rum
                           Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.
                                    [25)
                             Princeton
  For Sons of           1/2 Irish Whiskey
  Old Nassau.           1/2 Italian Vermouth           /
                        Orange juice
                        Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.

                                Rex
  DeLuxe New York       Crush a few grapes
  Hotel Speci"al.       1/3 Italian Vermouth
                        2/3 Gin                          .
                        Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.

                              Rob Roy
  A Swell Drink         1/3 Italian Vermouth
 for Stag Parties.      2/3 Scotch Whiskey
                        Add orange peel                  .
                        Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.

                            Ruby Royal
 For the Ladies.        1/3 Sloe Gin                         .
                        2/3 Apricot Brandy or Cherry Cordial
                        Shake and strain into cocktail glass.

                          Rum Blossom
 SP_anish American     Juice of half a lime
 Diplomat's Delight.   Dash of Orange Curacco
                       Add a drink of Bacardi Rum       .
                       Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.

                           Self Starter
 T~e First of a
Big Ni·ght.            1/3 French Vermouth
                       2/3 Gin
                       Muddle or crush few sprigs of mir.it
                       Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.

                               Star
Connectz"cut' s
Own Cocktail.          Dash of Orange bitters
                       1/2 Italian Vermouth
                       1/2 Cider Brandy                 .
                       Spoon well and strain into cocktail glass.
                              [26)
                                     Stinger
         A Unanimous           1/2 White Creme de Menthe
         Student's Drink.      1/2 Brandy
                               Dash of Absinthe
                               Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.

                                   Submarine
         Request of a          1/3 French Vermouth
         Noted Admfral.        1/3 Russian Kummell
                               1/3 Cider Brandy
                               Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.
                                     Sunset
         After a Washington    1/3 Dry Gin
         Society Di"nner.      1/3 Sweet Gin (Tom)
                               1/3 Apricot Brandy
                               Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.

                                    Sunshine
         For an After-         Juice of half a lime
......   di"nner Glow.         Dash of French Vermouth
                               1/2 drink of Bacardi Rum
                               1/2 Creme de Cassis
                               Shake well and strain into claret glass.
                                Swiss Mountain
         Affected by           Dash of Italian Vermouth
         European Travelers.   Dash of Absinthe
                               2/3 Gin
                               1/3 White Creme de Menthe
                               Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.

                                     Tango
         Speci"al for a        1/3 Apricot Brandy
 ~-      Dance Party.          1/3 French Vermouth
                               1/3 Gin
                               Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.
                                    Tipperary
         Sounds Irish,         Very little Italian Vermouth
         but Engli"shmen       1/3 Green Creme de Menthe
•        Drank i"t!            2/3 Irish Whiskey
                               Shake and strain into cocktail glass.
                                       (27]
                           Twitch
Fastidious           1/3 Gin
New York Hotel's     1/3 Apricot Brandy
Evening Salute.      1/3 Creme de Yvette
                     Dash of Absinthe

                           Vermouth
Wall Street          2 or 3 dashes of Angostura Bitters
Bankers' Favorite.   1 wine glass of Vermouth
                     1 slice of lemon
                     Few dashes of simple syrup
                     Shake well and strain into cocktail glass
                           Warrior
Favorite of          2/3 St. Croix Rum
the Army.            Dash of Grenadine Syrup
                     Dash of Peychand bit~ers        .
                     Shake well and strain mto cocktall glass.

                            Yale
Known to Yale        1/3 French Vermouth
Men Everywhere.      1/3 Gin
                     1/3 Creme de Yvette           .
                     Shake and strain into a cocktail glass.




                             [ 28)
,•••..
,r
                        Cobblers and Coolers
            Cobblers and Coolers were drinks for real hot weather-
         and since a lemonade glass was used (a long, long one) and
         lots of ice-they catered to the craving for a "big, cold some-
         thing." Cobblers and Coolers were exceptionally popular in
         our National Capital and, of course, were generally in high
         favor throughout the South. But, they h ad many, many
  ,.     acquaintances wherever and whenever the thermometer
         registered high. The Swnmer night dance, the tennis match
, I
         the Nineteenth Hole and the tourist stop were some of th~
         occasions for their enjoyment.
            For purposes of classification, the Author has placed under
          the head of Cobblers the drinks kin to them and known as
          "Tom Collins," "J osie Collins," "Gin Ginger," "Mamie
          Taylor," "South Side," " E ast Side," "Horse's Neck" and
          "Horse's Collar."

                                   COBBLERS.
          Sherry.
                 Use lemonade glass ; one spoonful of sugar; add very
              little water; mix together; fill glass with fine ice; then pour
              in a good drink of Sherry Wine and garnish with fruit in
              season; use no lemon juice at all.
          Port.
                 Use same set-up only employing Port Wine instead of
               Sherry.
          Champagne.
               Use same set-up without water; very little ice; add
             lemon and orange peel; garnish with cherries or berries;
             use a quart of Champagne to four large glasses.
          Tokay.
                    Use lemonade glass; dissolve a teaspoonful of sugar
                  with a little water; one slice of orange cut in cubes; fill
                  glass half full of fine ice; t hen fill up with Tokay Wine
                  and garnish with cherries or berries.
                                            [29]
Claret.
      The same as Tokay Cobbler only using Claret Wine
    instead.

Sauterne.
      The same as Claret Cobbler only using Sauterne in-
    stead.

Tom Collins.
     Use a large lemonade or a Tom Collin~ ~lass ; add a tea-
   spoonful of sugar · a good dash of lemon 1mce; a few lumps
   or cubes of ice; ~ drink of Gin; fill glass with Club Soda
   or charged water; and stir with spoon.
Josie Collins.
      The same as a Tom Collins using orange juice instead
    of lemon juice. .          '

Gin Ginger.
      Use a large lemonade or a Tom Collins glass; add a few
    1umps c;>f ice; pour in a drink of Gin; and fill g lass with
    good Gmger Ale.

Mamie Taylor.
      Use a large lemonade glass or a Tom qolli~s glass ; a~d
   a fe"'.V lumps of ice; juice of half a lime with rm<;I; pour m
   a drink of Rye or Scotch; then fill glass with Ginger Ale.
South Side.
       "l!se mixi~g glass; add a teaspoontul of sugar and. a few
    ~n~s C?f ~mt; a dash of lemon juice; pour a drink of
    filrd st!I with spoon; then strain into a lemonade glass
        e with fine ice and garnish with fruit.
East End.
     ga~ru.Ghin ~ehmon~de with plenty of mint; shake well a nd
          s Wlt frwt.

Horse's Neck.
    ~:tl~ large lemonade glass; peel a whole lemon and
           . ehpG~l around glass; add a few lumps of ice; fill
    glass Wlt    mger Ale.
                            [30]
Horse's Collar.
      Same as Horse's Neck only using Sarsaparilla instead
    of Ginger Ale.


                         COOLERS
Remison.
      Use lemonade glass; whole rind of a lemon; a few lumps
    of ice; add a drink of Gin; and fill glass with Club Soda.

Remsley.
       Same as R~mison only using Scotch instead of Gin.

Renweck:i.
       Same as a Remsley only using Whiskey instead of Gin.

Rum.
       A seltzer lemonade with favorite Rum.




                              (31]
                       Cordials
  Cordials were customarily taken at the close of a meal.
They were the post-prandial flourish. And by both men and
won;ien. Mixed cordial drinks, though, were the almost ex-
~~usive custom of the ladies and were had by them at social
 imes and places other than aprez dejeuner.
  Cordials when served plain were generally served in a pony
~lass or a liquor glass. Cordial when served frapped came
~ a_ cocktail glass filled with fine ice-the cordial poured over
  e ice-and straws went along.

Pousse Cafe.
    t In making a. Pousse Cafe the. gre~test care was _taken
    bes keep all the ingredients composing it separate. This was
         ~ accomplished by pouring the different ma~enals from
    a ~ne glass into the pony glass used for servmg. It re-
    qwred a steady hand and careful manip~ation. Start
    b:s generally made with the heaviest cordial, the brandy
       .mg poured last. The majority of Pousses were made
    ~th five cordials. The different ones seryed for the .de-
    -u~?- color effects. Benedictine, Maraschino, Grenadme,
     vv nit~ Creme de Menthe and Brandy were the usual
     combination.

 Flag Pousse (Read above)
       Grenadine, White Creme de Menthe and Creme de
     Vette.

 Angel's Breast.
     lit~ite Creme de Menthe or Maraschino; Brandy; a
     R e cream floated on top; and a cherry placed on cream.
       ernernber to keep all ingredients separate.
 Brandy FI
          . oat Frappe.
     in Filhl. whiskey glass or cocktail glass with fine ice; pour
        w ite Creme de Menthe and float Brandy on top.
 Angel's w·mg.
     R Curacoa, Kirchwasser, Green or Yellow Chartreuse.
       emember to keep all ingredients separate.
                              [32]
                         Daisies
   Daisies in the Author's opinion were deserving of a wider
appreciation. To him they seemed never to have had their
deserved following. Primarily a hot weather drink, they had
still other consumption at dansants, grill parties and the like.
They were cooling, refreshing and peculiarly tasty. In their
formulas given below, different basic ingredients were to
answer varying tastes. Gin was the most popular of these.


Gin Daisy.
       Three or four dashes of lemon juice; 1 teaspoof};;e 00 ~
    su_gar; 1/2 teaspoonful of Grenadine syrup; 1 dri        d
    Gm; spoon or shake well; strain into mug or goblet an
    garnish with fruit.

Whiskey.
     Same as above, using Whiskey instead of Gin.

Brandy.
      Same as above, using Brandy instead of Whiskey.

Rum.
       Same as above, using Rum instead of Brandy.

Royal Smile.
        Juice of 1/2 a lemon or lime; juice of 1/2 andrior~g~j
    l f.2 teaspoonful of sugar; 1 drink of Gin; 1/2          a
    Cider Brandy; shake well; and strain into a goblet or
    stem punch glass and garnish with fruit.




                               (33]
                             Fizz es
  Most everyone liked a Fizz and these twelve recipes below
were about twice the number of ordinary acquaintance. The
Author had a fondness for his own origination- Jere's Special,
but he introduced many a gratified patron to the merits of
the Panama and Dewey Special. The New Orleans was the
most famous of all Fizzes, taking some time to make-but
well worth it in the result. Old timers will recall the bars
where they were specialized and the colored porters who
stoo~ in row behind the wi~e clerks, taking the mixed in-
~edients from the latter and shaking and shaking, seemingly
without end until the Grand D esire had been arrived at- a
frothing Cup of Glory-a New Orleans Fizz.

Gin.
         Use mixing glass with ice; juice of 1/2 of lemon or lim~;
       ~teaspoonful of sugar; 1 drink of Gin; shake ~ell_; stram
   into sour or Fizz glass and add Seltzer to make it fizz.
Whiskey.
      Same as above, using Whiskey inst ead of Gin.
Brandy.
          Sarne as above, using Brandy instead of Whiskey.
Rum.
          Same as above, using choice of Rum instead of Brandy.
Silver.
      Sarne as plain Gin Fizz, adding white of an egg.
Golden.
     Sarne as above, using yolk of an egg.
Dewey Special.
          Using mixing glass with ice; juice of h alf a lime; 1 ~ea­
       ~pofonfuI of sugar ; 1 drink of Gin; add a dash of Grenadine;
          resh egg; shake well·' strain into highball glass ; add
       Seltzer.
                                [34]
Panama.
      Use mixing glass with ice; juice of 1/2 lemon or lime;
    1 teaspoonful of sugar; add a few crushed strawberries;
    a dash of Grand Marnier Cordial; 1 drink of Gin; shake
    well; strain into highball glass and add Seltzer.

Royal.
      Sarne as a Golden Fizz, using the whole egg. Formula
    for Golden Fizz is given above.

Jere's Special.
       Juice of half a lemon; 1 dash of Grenadine Syrup; add
    a few sprigs of Mint; 1 drink of Carypton Cordial; shake
    well; strain into a Fizz or highball glass and add Seltzer.

Rainbow.
      Crush 4 or 5 fresh or preserved strawberries; .1 te!l-
    sp_09nful of sugar; juice of hal_f a lime, leaving r:n4 m
    ~xmg glass; 1 drink of Sloe Gm; shake well; stram mto
    highball glass and add Seltzer.

New Orleans.
      Use mixing glass with ice; juice of 1/2 lime and 1/2
   lemon; 1 teaspoonful of sugar; dash of orange fio~ili
   W';lter; white of an egg; 1 drink of Gin; fill glass WI .
   rml~ ~r cream; shake long and well (very important)•
   stram mto Fizz glass or lemonade glass and use no Seltzer
   or charged water.




                              135)
                            Flips
  Flips were regarded as tonics by most drinkers. They were
a sort of medicinal drink, thought to be "builders", and were
taken usually for refreshing and restorative reasons.

Sherry.
     ~ teaspoonful of sugar; 1 fresh egg; a drink of Sherry
    W~e;  shake well; strain into a small stem glass and
    spnnkle grated nutmeg on top.
Port.
         Same as above, using Port Wine instead of Sherry.
Royal.
         Same as Sherry Flip adding a pony of Orange Curacoa.
Runi.
       1 teaspoonful of sugar; 1 fresh egg; 1 drink of Jamaica
     or ~roix Rum; shake well; strain into a small glass and
     Sprinkle Nutmeg on top.
llrandy.
       Same as above, using Brandy instead of Rum.
Whiskey.
     Same as above using Rye or Bourbon Whiskey instead
   of Brandy.     '

by~':f1din·Brandy and Whiskey Flips were sometimes served hot
           g hot water and using a larger glass.




                             (36]
                        Freezes
   The Freeze was a favorite sportsman's drink, in the Author's
experience-particularly favored by athletic coaches, ball
players and the younger outdoor fraternity. However, it had
its preference with many other miscellaneous individuals.
For example, a long time manager of one of New York's most
famous hotels always called for a Frozen Scotch and invariably
ordered it for any assemblage of his friends.


Frozen Rye.
      Use an old fashioned cocktail glass, packed well
    ~e ice; 3 dashes of Marschino or plain syrup; ad a
                                                           v:Jth
    little wat.er; l .drink of Rye Whiskey; stir well with spoon
    and garrush with plenty of fruit.

 Frozen Scotch.
       Same as above, using Scotch Whiskey instead of Rye.

 Frozen G~n.
       Same as above, using Gin instead of Scotch.

 Frozen Rum.
       Same as above, using favorite Rum instead of Gin.

 Brandy.
       Same as above, using Brandy instead of Rum.


                                                                   4




                                (37]
                               Highballs
   The Highball                                        · .
 Author's ex . was the only rival to the Cocktail m the
most po u1 pene~ce as the most often called for and therefore
sorts of ~ ar .drink. It was taken at any hour and on all
to bank casion, by all classes of drinkers, from bootblack
can anderB .~ctors, including the leading lights of our Arneri-
of the H. ~tish stages, were, as a category, especially fond
by it. T~g ball. Their get-togethers were always mellowed
can sta e e Auth.or recollects the one-time dea~ .of the Arneri-
broth g who nightly after his performance 301ned by some
a halfe~ actor, awaited the extinguishment of the lights with
        ozen haloos of "Scotch Highball, please!"         ·

Rye.
    ad~seSehil·ghball glass; 1 lump of ice· 1 drink of Rye Whiskey;
             tzer to fill.                '
Scotch.
c· Same as above, using Scotch Whiskey instead of R ye.
    ID.
          ~~ke as above, using favorite Gin instead of Scotch
            IS ey.
Brandy.
R      Sarne as above, using Brandy instead of Gin.
  Ubl.
B           Sarne as above, using favorite Rum instead of Brandy.
    Ulldog.
          hdl:l~ 0 { 1/4 orange; 1 drink of Gin; cube of ice; use
S                g ass and fill with Ginger Ale.
    now ball.
              One drink of Brandy or R ye Whiskey; 1 teaspoonful of
          sugar·
                   1 :t~eGgg; shake well; strain into lemonade glass;
          fill glass
                           mger Ale.
0 range Blossobl.
          or~s:e?lghdrib.allnkglass; a cube. of ic~; juice of 1/4 lime; 1/4
                 '         of Gm; fill with Gmger Ale.
                                     [38]
                            Juleps
    It is an authentic story of a late most eminent Jurist,
"Southerner, Sir," one of the earliest protagonists of Pro-
hibition, that he was waylaid by the heat one Summer's after-
noon on the plantation house porch of a brother Judge, and
served with others present, a Mint Julep. Evidencing hesita-
tion, he spooned and spooned the glass and finally said: "I am
convinced that liquor and not money is the root of all evil;
but (still spooning and spooning) I must admit (still spooning
and spooning) that the man who could find fault with this
drink (still spooning and spooning) would have to be (still
spooning and spooning)-a mighty, mighty unreasonable
man!" And, then he drank it. Which established again the
affinity, p erhaps rather the homogeneity, of the Southerner
and his Julep.            .
    Southern hospitality and the heat of that region evolved it.
 I ts mere mention connoted both. In the good old days no
 Southern gentleman was without his own Mint patch in the
 garden, whither the colored butler repaired and picked the
 precious leaves as the solemn rite of Julep mixture wa~ ~o
 begin. And the Julep travelled with the Southerner, until it
 became a Balm of Gilead to an eager missionary world-a
 Cosmopolita n drink par excellence-on torrid days and nights.
     The real Southern Mint Julep was distinctive by its use of
 Bo:urbon Whiskey as a base. Only Iconoclasts variated it by
 employing Brandy or Gin.
 Mint.
       Fill a lar e lass with fine ice and allow to stand fo~
    some time; ~ak~ a miJCing glass; 1/2. teaspooJ?ful of sugar,
     add a little water· add a few spngs of Mmt; press ~o
     obtain flavor· add 'a drink of _Bo~bon Whiskey and s~ir,
     the!1 strain i{ito glass filled with ice;_ decorate with. M_1nt
     ~pngs ; sprinkle a litt.le Rum on top, and when drinking
     mhale scent of the Mint.
 Brandy.      .                          .
        Same as above, using Brandy mst ead of Whiskey.
 Gin or Bun Fighter's DreaDl· . .
       Same as above, using Gin mstead of Brandy.
                                 [39)
                      Punches
  Punches had their own devotees at the bar, and in quantity,
were the conventional cheer at social gatherings, such as
weddings, parties, reunions and the like.
  No two wine clerks ever made the same punch a like, the
personal equation entering into ingredients and quantities.
  The Author, through the special character of his experience
~s ~o. places of employment, mixed Punches for all sorts of
mdividuais and occasions and the formulas for them which                 I
                                                                         I
he submits below came to be his standards and met with,
modestly writing, invariable approbation.

                           Whiskey
                                                                         l
For the Seasoned
Drinker.              A good dash of lem?n juice; a tea-                 i
                    spoonful of sugar or pl~lJ:?- SYr:uJ?; a dasI:
                    of Grenadine Syrup; stir m rmx1~g gla.ss,
                    strain into Punch glass ; and garrnsh W1 th
                    fruit.
                                                                     1
                                                                     '
                          Brandy
                      Same as above using Brandy as base
                    instead of Whiskey.

                          Rum
                      Same as above using Rwn instead of
                    Brandy as base.

Boston Favorite          Ward Eight
Especially.     '      Same as a Whiskey Punch; float a
                    little claret on top after straining, and
                    garnish with fruit.                              I

Every day in          Army and Navy
Washington.           Use mixing glass with ice; a good ~ash
                    of Grenadine Syrup; juice of whole lm;ie;
                    add a little water; mix well t_ogether wit_h
                    spoon; a drink of Bacardi Rwn; stir
                    agai.u and strain into stem punch glass;
                    and garnish with fruit.
                            [40)                                     1
                          Uncle Jim's
The Travelling          Use mixing glass with ice; 1/ 2 jigger of
Man's.                St. Croix Rwn; 1/2 jigger of French
                      Brandy; juice of 1/2 lemon or lime; 1
                      teaspoonful of sugar; shake well; strain
                      into a punch glass which has been pack-
                      ed with ice; pour claret on top and
                      garnish with fruit.

                          Fish House
In Universal            Juice of 1/2 lemon; a dd a little sugar
Favor.                or syrup and a little water; 1 drink of St.
                      Croix Rwn; a d ash of Apricot Brandy;
                      add ice; stir or shake; strain into Punch
                      glass and garnish with fruit. This Punch
                      can also be made in quanity by increas-
                      ing the proportions. Add charged water
                      when serving, and have lots of ice in
                      Punch bowl.

                             Claret
When Ladies             U se serving glass with fine ice; 1 tea-
Participated.         spoonful of sugar; 1 slice of lemon cut in
                      half; 1 slice of orange cut in quarters;
                      pour in claret; stir with spoon and garn-
                      ish with fruit.
                              Placid
 In High Society.         Use mixing glass with ice; juice of 1
                      orange; a drink of Gin; a drink of Port
                      Wine ; shake and strain into Punch glass;
                      fill with lumps of ice and garnish with
                      fruit.

                          Copper Kettle
   Twice or thrice a year, on occasions hoary with custom and
 ebulient with spirit, such as initiations, convocations and re-
 unions, this Nectar of Men was brewed and the Fathers and
 Sons of Old Eli quaffed it- in almost ritual of ne'er forgetting
 toast and pulsing jolly song.
   This Punch is m ade only in quantity. Its precise formula
 depended obviously on the number in attendance and the
 conservative or liberal character of the festive occasion. The
                               [41)
base of the Punch was Cider and Rum, Champagne and Claret
and Maraschino being added to suit, lemon and sugar also to
taste, and enough charged water to adjust strength.
  Making this Punch a few days ahead insured its being all
the better. Charged water was added only when ready to
serve.
  The Author gives herewith a specimen formula of this Punch
employed by him to prepare it for a spirited reunion of twenty
Old Grads.
The Traditional     6 lemons sliced
 Yale Punch-the     1 gallon of Cider
Wassail Bowl of     1 quart of St. Croix Rum
 Her Social Fra-    1 pint of Maraschino
ternizations.       1 quarter pound of sugar
                    2 quarts of Champagne
                    1 pint of Claret.

  These ingredients were compounded on the evening of the
nineteenth of the month; on the afternoon of the twenty-first;
the mixture was taken to the place of reunion, placed in the
bowl, a large lump of ice was given it and when it was about
to be partaken, a very little charged water was added to
guarantee it "life."
                          Sunrise
The Preference of     Use mixing glass; juice of 1/2 le~on ;
Younger Men.        j~ce of 1/2 orange; dash of Gre!lad!ne;
                    drink of Gin· shake well; stram mto
                    Punch glass ~d garnish with fruit.

                           Milk                                  .
Even Household         Use mixing glass with ice; 1 teaspoon-
Remedies.           ful of sugar; 1 drink of Rye, Rum <;>r
                    Brandy; fill with milk; ~hake well; stram
                    into large glass and spnnkle Nutmeg on
                    top.

                         Egg Milk
                       Same as above, only adding an egg.
                            (42 ]
                     TOM AND JERRY
For Holiday Cheer       Take 12 eggs; 1 teaspoonful of Cin-
-The Yuletide.       namon; 1/2 teaspoonful of Ground
Remember it at the   Cloves; 1/2 teaspoonful of Ground All-
end of the bar or    spice; beat the white of the eggs to a
on the front hall    stiff froth; the yolks until they are thin;
table?               then mix together; add spice; stir well
                      and thicken with sugar until the mixture
                      becomes a light batter.
                        A larger or smaller quantity may be
                      made by increasing or decreasing the
                      proportions.
                        Add 1/2 or 1 teaspoonful of Cream of
                      Tartar to prevent sugar from settling at
                      bottom of mixture.
                        Take a bottle for the following mix-
                      ture: 1/4 Rum; 1/4 Sherry; 1/2 Brandy
                      or R ye.

                 How to Serve Tom and Jerry
   1 tablespoonful of mixture or batter; a wine glassful of
liquor mixture; fill glass or mug with hot water and sprinkle
Nutmeg on top.




                                [43)
                              Ric keys
      The Rickey was a hot weather and a Southern drink to
    start with, but it attained a far-flung clientele and an adher-
    ence in all seasons. Thirst-quenching and cooling were its
    virtues, and, in the Author's experience, Southern folks, stage
    people and students were its most devoted admirers.
      Because they were generically rickeys, the formulas of Fog
    Horn, Brookline Special and Capitol Hill were given under
    this classification.



I   Gin.
             Juice of 1/2 lime; 1 drink of Gin; use highball glass; add
           Seltzer.
    Whiskey.
         Same as above, using Whiskey instead of Gin.
    Brandy.
          Same as above, using Brandy instead of Whiskey.
    Rum.
             Same as above, using choice of Rum instead of Brandy.
    Circus.
           Plain Gin Rickey, adding a dash of Grenadine Syrup.
    Gin Buck.
          1/2 lemon; 1/2 orange juice; 1 drink of Gin; use highball
        glass; fill glass with Ginger Ale.
    Fog Horn .
            .Juice of 1/2 lime; leaving ~e in. glass add a drink of
           Gm; use a highball glass; fill with Gmger Ale.
    Brookline Special.
          Juice of 1/2 lime; 1 drink of ~in; ?dd a little Grenadine
t       syrup; use highball glass ; fill with Gmger Ale.
    Capitol Hill.
           Use a highball glass; juice o.f 1/2 lime with .rind; 3 o~ 4
        sprigs of Mint; crush Mint with spoon; 1 dnnk of Gm;
        fill glass with Ginger Ale.
                                    (44]
                      Sangarees
  The Sangaree was, generally speaking, a conservative drink,
taken by those who favored something relatively light and
mild. Its wine varieties were the most popular. In the
Author's experience it wa,s found to be principally the order
of the elderly business man, after the counters were closed in
the late afternoon.

Port Wine.
      Use mixing glass with ice; a good drink of Port Wine;
    1/2 teaspoonful of sugar; shake well; strain into small
    glass and sprinkle Nutmeg on top.
Sherry.
      Use mixing glass with ice; a good drink of Sherry Wine;
    1/2 teaspoonful of sugar; shake well; strain into small
    glass and sprinkle Nutmeg on top.
Brandy.
       Use mixing glass; 1/2 teaspoonful of sugar; add a little
    water; 1 drink of Brandy; strain into small glass; dash a
    little Port Wine on top; add Nutmeg.
Gin.
       Same as above, using Gin instead of Brandy.

Stone Wall or Fence.
         Use highball glass with ice; a drink of Rye or Bourbon;
fill glass with Cider.




                               [45]
                          Smashes
  A Smash differed from a Cobbler or Cooler by offering a
small and short rather than a tall and long cooling drink. It
was a hot weather drink, and of Southern extraction, as evi-
denced by the Mint.


Yale.
         Use an old-fashioned Whiskey cocktail glass; add 1/4
       loaf of sugar with a litt le water and a few sprigs of Mint;
       crush all together; add a few lumps of ice; a small quantity
       of Grenandine syrup; pour a drink of Gin.

Thistle
       Use old-fashioned cocktail glass; crush one loaf of sugar;
    a few sprigs of Mint, with a little water ; add a lump of
    ice; pour in a drink of Scotch; fill balance of glass with
    Ginger Ale.

Mint.
         Use old-fashioned glass; add a little water and sugar;
       a few sprigs of Mint; press on Mint to get flavor with
       spoon; add a lump of ice and a drink of Whiskey.

Brandy.
         Same as above, using Brandy instead of Whiskey.

Gin.
         Same as above, using Gin instead of Brandy.

Rum.
         Same as above, using Rum instead of Gin.




                                (46]
                             Sours
  Sours were drinks proverbially good for an over-taxed
stomach and supercharged nerves. They steadied and re-
newed. They were on call everywhere and were the "hair
of the dog that bit" to all classes of drinkers. The base in-
gredient was employed to conform with the individual taste.


Whiskey.
         Use mixing glass with ice; a teaspoonful of sugar; juice
       of 1/2 lemon; a drink of Whiskey; shake; strain into sour
       glass; add Seltzer or charged water; slice of orange and
       serve.

Gin.
         Same as above, using Gin instead of Whiskey.

Brandy.
         Same as above, using Brandy instead of Gin.

Rum.
         Same as above, using Rum instead of Brandy.

Cider Brandy or Country Sour.
         Same as above, using Cider Brandy instead of Rum.




                                 (47]
                        Toddies
   Toddies, in the Author's experience, were favored by elderly
and conservative men drinkers. They were seen a good deal
more generally in Washington, though. And, interesting to
relate, he found them, if any, the drink sui generis of the
Uniyersity Professor. The late afternoon was the time apropos
to most for their enjoyment.


Old-Fashioned Whiskey
      Use an old-fashioned Whiskey glass; 1/2 lump of sugar;
    a little water; lump of ice; a slice of lemon peel; a drink
    of Whiskey; stir with spoon and drink.

Old-Fashioned Gin.
      Same as above, using Gin instead of Whiskey as base.




                             [48)
       How and When Wines Were Served

Appetizers Vermouths.
     Taken as appetizers or as cocktails, frequently with the
     addition of spirits, black-currant, or syrups.
Bitters.
     Taken with cocktails, vermouths and other beverages.
     Rinse out the glass with the bitters before filling it with
     the vermouth. Keep the bottles cool and in a reclining
     position.
Champagnes
     are a cooling, refreshing drink and are taken at lunch or
     dinner, at the beginning of the meal, with the vegetables,
     or with the dessert, or as a beverage or stimulant by
     physician's orders. Served on ice. Keep the bottles
     lying flat in a cool cellar. All heat should be carefully
     avoided.                   ·
Sparkling Wines.
    Sparkling wines are drunk at luncheon or dinner, and are
    served on ice. Keep the bottles lying flat in the cellar,
    and avoid heat.
Bordeaux Red Bordeaux (Clarets)
    are taken in recognized order; old and superior clarets are
    served with the entrees, while the fine Bordeaux vintages
    go with all white meats and roasts, and also with cheese
    if no Burgundy has been served previously.
    They should be served at the room temperature, and
    should be brought up from the cellar two or three hours
    before serving. The bottles should be kept in a reclining
    position in a cool cellar.
White Bordeaux
   are drunk at a temperature below that of the room, .and
   are served with the fish and dessert, Sauternes espeCially
   with the dessert. Keep the bottles lying flat in the cellar.
White Burgundies                                            .
   are served with fish, oysters and other shell-fish~ and with
   game and venison. To be taken cold, that is to say,
   below room temperature.
                               [49]
                                                                      I




Red Burgundies
     are served with the roast, and especially with highly
     flavored game and venison.
     Clarets and Burgundies are taken at the room tempera-
     ture, and so should be brought up from the cellar two or
     three hours before the meal.
     Both Red and White Burgundies should be kept lying
     flat in a cool cellar. All heat must be avoided.
Rhenish Wines.
     These wines are dry, that is, they contain very little sugar.
     They are very pale wines and keep well.
     They are served cold with the fish. The bottles should
     be kept cold in the cellar, lying flat.
Italian Chianti".
     Served at room t emperature like Claret. The bottles
     should be kept in a cool cellar in a reclining position.
Sweet French Wines Frontignan.
     Served cold with the dessert or at lunch. Keep bottles
     cold and in a reclining position.
Spanish Wines Tarragona.
     In the same manner as other wines should be kept in a
     cool place, the bottles lying on their sides. They are
     served at room temperature.
Spanish Sherry.
     Ordinary sherries are drunk cold, as appetizers, and also
     at lunch as well as with the hors-d'oeuvres. The older

Ports
     sherries are sipped cold after dinner. The bottles should
     be kept lying flat and cold in the cellar.
                      ·
                                                                          j
     are served as appetizers, at luncheon and also with the
     pudding. Old red ports are taken after dinner.
     Red ports are taken at room temperature and white ports
     are served cold. Keep the bottles lying flat in a cold cellar.
Madeira.
     Taken as an appetizer before dinner, after the soup, and
     during luncheon.
     Inferior grades are used by cooks to prepare sauces. Old
     Madeira is very choice and in great demand.
     To be drunk at room temperature, but the bottles must
     be kept lying flat in a cold cellar.
Malagas.
     Served with lunch, and especially with the de~sert. T~ese
     wines are served cold. Keep the bottles lymg flat m a
     cold cellar.
                               [50)
                              INDEX
                                ..
Cocktails .. . . . . .. . .. . . ... . . . . . .... .. .. .. Page                  13
Cobblers a nd Coolers. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             29
Cordials . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   32
Daisies . .... .. . . . .. . . . ....... . .... . . . . ......                     33
Fizzes. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   34
Flips. .. . . .... . ..... . . . .. ... . . . . . .. . ..... .. .                  36
Freezes.. . ... . . .. ... . ... ..... .. ... . . . . . . . . . .                  36
Highballs.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      38
Juleps . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   39
Punches. ... .. . . .. ... . . . ...... .. . . . . . . . ... . .                   40
Rickeys . . ... ... .. . . .. . .. .. . . . ... . . . . . . . . .. .               44
Sangarees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        45
Smashes.. . . . . ... . . . .. ..... . ... . . . ... . .. . . ..                   46
Sours . .. .. .. ... .. . .. .. . ... . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . .               47
Toddies .... . . . . . . .. . . . . .. .. . . . . . . . .. ... ....                48
How and When Served . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  49




                                           [51]
      Yorewo rd~-......_ _ _,
        "And we'll have a cup of kindness yet
         For auld Lang syne."




                    [52]




--   -~--
