     C+H££RIO" A BOOK OF



     PU nCHGSADD




    COCKTfl ILS
    HOW TO MIX THEM
                                    «


       Ir          •   •   '114         "•S
                                  1» Jl




              A

     y •CHA.RLES       ft)rme^ op
      DELMOniCOS.
I
                          •' »

                             . <1
                  V   ,          ^•




           M .

           iviU

                      'M



                      ,     '•




.30 ISet
• -I't
M.
•'ir
(t
     CHEERIO!"
      A BOOK OF PUNCHES AND
      COCKTAILS. HOW TO MIX
      THEM, AND OTHER RARE,
      EXQUISITE AND DELICATE
      DRINKS.        INCLUDING          A
      CHAPTER OF CELEBRITIES,
      THEIR FAVORITE DRINKS.

               By CHARLES
             Formerly of Delmonicos

      The New Revised and Enlarged Edition




     THE ELF, PUBLISHERS, INC.
          1674 Broadway, N. Y. C.
                     1930
              Copyright 1928
              Copyright 1930
                    BY

         The Elf, Publishers, Inc.
              New York City


... ^7




                                              ' i
                                     --   ,     I
       THE EIGHT IMMORTAL DRINKERS

                 By Tou-Fou {715-774)

   Ho-Tchi-Tchang, always on horseback, looked like a
man rowing a boat. One evening, when he was drunker
than tisual, he jell from his horse into a deep pit, and it is
my belief that he is sleeping there yet.
    Vu-Yang always empties three bottles before going
to work. If he meets a grain cart he gives up all thought
of business, follows along after it, and chats with the
coolie about the fermentation of rice.
    The minister, Li-Ti-Chy, could swallow a hundred
rivers. He cheerfully spends ten million tsien, and de
clares that he would willingly cut off the heads of all
merchants who sell dubious wine.

    When Tsoung-Tchi savors a bottle, only the whites of
his eyes can be seen. Suddenly, there is a great noise!
And there on the ground, like an uprooted tree, lies
Tsoung-Tchi.
   The solemn Sou-Tsin never drinks before the statue
of Buddha. But once outside the Monastery, if he ever
begins to drink, he must be carried back there on the
shoulders of some charitable passerby.
   Under the influence of a single measure of wine
Li-Tai-Po is capable of writing three htmdred verses.
vi      THE EIGHT IMMORTAL DRINKERS

One day he was sleeping in the tavern oj Tchang-nan
when he received an order from the Emperor to come
to the palace. " Say to the Emperor," answered he, " that
I am talking with the gods."
     When Tchang-Hio had emptied three cups he could
handle the brushes with an inconceivable skill. At that
moment, if all the kings of the earth were to enter his
room, he would not budge.
   Five big measures of wine carried the spirit of Tsaio-
Soui to its greatest heights, and then the eloquence of
our friend threw his guests into bewilderment.
   Although I sometimes pledge them a draught I do
not at all belong among these illustrious men, I who am
more often made drunk by a ray from the moon.

         — Translated from the Chinese by Franz Toussaint.
                     From the Book entitled; The Lost Flute
                        CONTENTS

Chapter                                              Page
          Introductory Note                            vii
   I.     Morning Cocktails, Known as " Pickups " or
             " Bracers "
  II.     Before and After Dinner Drinks .              4
 III.     Midnight and Before-Bed Drinks                8
 IV.      " Tapering Off " Cocktails ....              II

  V.      Rare and Fancy Drinks                        14
  VI.     Fancy Wine Drinks                            19
 VII.     Punches and Party Drinks     . .             23
VIII.     Hot Drinks for the Fevered, Chilled and
             Cold                                      28
 IX.      Suicide Drinks    .                          31
  X.      Ladies' Cocktails and Other Delicacies .     33
 XL       Temperance Drinks                            36
XII.      Miscellaneous Drinks for Anywhere and Any
             time                                      39
XIII.     Celebrities' Favorite Drinks . . . .         43
XIV.    Toasts      .   .   . ,                        46
          Index                                        SI
F




I'
              INTRODUCTORY NOTE

   This book has been written as much for the ordinary
gentleman of good taste, as for the connoisseur or the epi
cure or the gourmet of drink. It is written, not with the
crude and rough hand of any careless bartender, but
with the fastidious and delicate hand of one who has
served drinks to Princes, Magnates and Senators of many
wealthy nations.
   When that old vintner, Noah, first squeezed the
precious grape into the cup, and throwing back his head,
felt the vigorous wine-drops trickling deliciously down
his parched throat, a new art was born, fostered and loved
by Kings and Rajahs, flourishing in the courts of
Emperors and Khans. And even today, if you observe
in any street of any city, a man, more imaginative, more
bold, more firm than his fellow men, you may depend
upon it, he is descended direct from old Noah.
    Today, that Art of creating exquisite drinks to match
exquisite moods is gasping on its death-bed, and the dull
ogre, Puritanism, supplanting the Skeleton, sits gloating
by the bed-side, waiting eagerly to hear the last death-
rattle.
   If this volume succeeds in preserving, even a little
while longer, that ancient and much beloved Art, the
writer will be happy.
M
                       CHAPTER I




  MORNING DRINKS KNOWN AS " PICKUPS "
            OR "BRACERS"

When You Stagger Out oj Bed, Groggy, Grouchy and
                 Cross-Tempered

                     Charleston Bracer

    Place in shaker, one part brandy, one part Port wine^
one raw egg, one half teaspoonful of powdered sugar or
plain syrup. Add sufficient cracked ice, shake thoroughly
in order to break egg and strain into serving glass.

                       Brandy Sour

   Mix in a small bar glass a large teaspoonful of
powdered sugar dissolved in a little seltzer water, the
juice of half a lemon, and a dash of Curacoa. Pour in a
wine-glass of brandy. Fill the glass with shaved ice. Shake
and strain into a claret glass. Ornament with orange and
berries in season.


                         Gin Sour

   Mix in a small bar glass a large teaspoonful of
powdered white sugar dissolved in a little seltzer water,
the juice of half a lemon, and a dash of bitters. Pour in
a wine-glass of gin. Fill the glass with shaved ice. Shake
2           " PICKUPS " AND " BRACERS "


and strain into a claret glass. Ornament with pineapple
and berries in season.


                           Stinger

    To two thirds of brandy, add one third of white
Creme de Menthe. Ice, shake well, and serve in cocktail
glass.

                   Dubonnet Cocktail

    Mix in container two thirds part Dubonnet, one third
dry gin, fill with ice, stir well, but do not shake, and
strain into cocktail glass.


                         Jamaica Glow

   In shaker place one part gin, one half portion Claret,
one half portion orange juice, three or four dashes of
Jamaica ginger. Fill with ice, shake thoroughly until very
cold, strain in cocktail glass.


                      Pearl Cocktail

    Two parts dry gin, one part French Vermouth,
three dashes of onion juice, three dashes orange bitters.
Shake well and strain into cocktail glass. Garnish with
an olive.
           PICKUPS" AND "BRACERS


                     Tom Collins

    In a long tumbler, place one portion dry Gordon gin,
juice of one half lemon, one teaspoonful of powdered
sugar, a few lumps of ice and seltzer water. Stir well.

               Minute Man Highball

    In a large tumbler mix one half applejack, one half
Port wine and the juice of half an orange. Add ice and
seltzer water. Ginger ale may be used if preferred.

                   Brandy Port Nog

    Place in a shaker one part brandy, one part Port wine,
one raw egg, one teaspoonful of powdered sugar. Fill the
shaker with ice, shake thoroughly in order to break up
the egg, then strain into a large cocktail glass. Grate a
little nutmeg on top before serving.

                    Jam.mca Bitters
    Mix in a large glass a large teaspoonful of powdered
sugar dissolved in a little seltzer water, three dashes of
lemon juice and a wine-glass of Jamaica rum. Fill the
glass with shaved ice, shake up and strain into a claret
glass. Ornament with orange and berries in season.
                      CHAPTER II




     BEFORE AND AFTER DINNER DRINKS

  For the Perfect Beginning and the Perfect Ending

                Orange Blossom Special

   Dip a spoon in honey and dissolve the honey that
adheres to the spoon in one part of gin. Add one part
orange juice. Ice in shaker and strain into cocktail glass.


               Orange Blossom Cocktail

     Add the juice of half an orange to one portion of gin;
fill with ice, shake well and serve in cocktail glass.

                    Martini Cocktail

    Place in shaker two parts dry gin, one part Italian
Vermouth (French Vermouth if the drink is preferred
dry), two dashes of orange bitters; fill with ice, shake and
strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with a twist of
lemon peel.

                 Mint Spray Cocktail

     To one part of gin in a shaker add one part orange
jtiice and a half teaspoonful of powdered sugar; add ice,
     BEFORE AND AFTER DINNER DRINKS                     s


 and shake up thoroughly. Serve in cocktail glass, gar
 nished with fresh mint.


                      Amber Dream

  Two thirds dry gin, one third French or Italian Ver
mouth, add a small portion of Chartreuse and a dash
of orange bitters. Place in a shaker with ice, stir and
serve.



                Holland Old Fashioned
    Place a lump of sugar in a three ounce glass, reduce
to syrup with a little hot water, a pony of Holland gin,
two dashes of bitters, add a twist of lemon peel and a
cube of ice. Stir slowly with a spoon and serve.

                       Mint Julep
   Dissolve one tablespoonful of powdered sugar in a
portion of Bourbon in which a few sprigs of mint have
been crushed. Add ice and seltzer water, and decorate
with fresh mint.


               Havana Special Cocktail
   In shaker place three parts Bacardi rum and one part
Grenadine, juice of one lime, shake well with ice, strain
into cocktail glass and serve.
6      BEFORE AND AFTER DINNER DRINKS


                         Bronx Cocktail

   Fill a large bar glass half full of shaved ice. To it
add one third dry gin, one third French Vermouth, and
one third Italian Vermouth. Throw in a slice of orange,
shake well, and serve in a cocktail glass.

                       Alabama Mint Julep
      Place a teaspoonful of granulated sugar in a small
glass and pour in enough hot water to make a thick
syrup. Pour this slowly into a shaker over cracked ice.
Next place two ounces of Bourbon whiskey in shaker,
along with three or four sprigs of mint which have been
bruised between the thumb and forefinger. Shake well
and serve in whiskey glass.

                      Apple Brandy Cocktail

    Two thirds apple brandy to one third of Vermouth.
Add a tablespoonful of syrup and a few dashes of orange
bitters. Ice, shake well and serve in cocktail glass.

                          Brandy Smash

   Dissolve spoonful of sugar in bottom of whiskey glass.
Crush a few sprigs of mint in it. Add a portion of
brandy and a piece of ice. Stir with spoon and serve with
    spoon in glass.
    BEFORE AND AFTER DINNER DRINKS


                  Country Cocktail

    In shaker place a pony of Rye whiskey, two dashes
orange bitters and two dashes Angostura bitters. Twist a
piece of lemon peel and drop into container. Fill with
crushed ice, mix well and strain into whiskey glass.




                                                           S'l
                     CHAPTER III




    MIDNIGHT AND BEFORE-BED DRINKS

For Insomnia, Bad Dreams, Disillusionment and Despair

                      Golden Fizz

    In container place one portion of dry gin, the yolk of
a raw egg and two teaspoonfuls of powdered sugar. Fill
with ice, shake thoroughly to combine ingredients and
serve with cold seltzer water. Drink while still efferves
cent.

                    Hot Spiced Rum

    Fill a tumbler two thirds full of hot water after plac
ing spoon in glass and mix in a pony of Jamaica rum. .Add
one teaspoonful of sugar, juice of a quarter of a lemon,
and whole cloves to suit taste. Serve with spoon.
                        Egg Nog

   To one glass of fresh milk in a container add a raw
egg, two teaspoonfuls of sugar, a pony of brandy, fill
with ice and shake thoroughly to combine ingredients.
Serve cold with a little grated nutmeg on top.
                 Albermarle Cocktail

    One pony Holland gin to one half ounce Absinthe.
Fill shaker with ice, shake and strain into cocktail glass.
                             8




                         •
    MIDNIGHT AND BEFORE-BED DRINKS                        g


                    Crimson Cocktail

   Mix in a shaker one part dry gin with a dash of orange
bitters. Ice, shake and pour into a glass. Then pour over
this a half portion of Port wine. Allow it to settle without
stirring before serving.


                     Gin and Italian

   In a shaker pour two parts dry gin, one third Italian
Vermouth, juice of one quarter of an orange and a sprig
of mint. Fill with ice, shake well and strain into cocktail
glass.

                           Hot Irish

    Fill a tumbler two thirds full of boiling water, putting
a spoon in glass first to prevent cracking. In this dissolve
a spoonful of sugar and add a portion of Irish whiskey.
Squirt in the juice of a quarter lemon, and ornament with
a slice of lemon. Serve with a spoon.


                   Egg Whiskey Fizz

    In a shaker place one portion whiskey, juice of half
a lemon, a teaspoonful of powdered sugar, white of one
raw egg, and a few dashes of Absinthe. Ice, shake
thoroughly to combine ingredients and serve, half filling
the glass. Fill up with seltzer water.
10   MIDNIGHT AND BEFORE-BED DRINKS


                    Tom and Jerry

   To one portion of brandy or rum, add one well-beaten
raw egg and two teaspoonfuls of sugar. Stir thoroughly
while pouring in hot milk, and serve with grated nutmeg
or paprika on top.

             Egg Bacardi Rum Cocktail

   In shaker place one dash Grenadine, one part Bacardi
rum, one part lemon juice and white of one egg. Ice,
shake until very cold and strain slowly.

                  Cold Brandy Flip

    Mix together in a large glass a teaspoonful of
powdered sugar, a wine-glass of brandy, a half wine
glass of water, a fresh raw egg and a few small lumps
of ice. Shake up thoroughly, strain into a small bar glass
and serve cold with a little grated nutmeg on top.

                    Sherry and Egg

   Break one raw egg into a large glass, stir it up well
and fill the glass with Sherry.
                     CHAPTER IV




         " TAPERING OFF " COCKTAILS

  To Regain the Tight-Rope Walker's Balance, the
           Juggler's Hair-Split Precision

                   Brandy and Soda

   Into a large glass pour one wine-glass of brandy and
add a few small lumps of ice. Fill up the glass with plain
soda water. This is sometimes called a Stone Wall.

                    Whiskey Sour

   Use a small bar glass. To a large teaspoonful of
powdered sugar dissolved in a little seltzer water, add
the juice of a small lemon. Pour in a wine-glass of
Bourbon or Rye whiskey. Fill the glass full of shaved ice,
shake up and strain into a claret glass. Ornament with
berries before serving.

                     White Plush

    Pour a small glass half full of Bourbon or Rye whis
key. Fill the glass with fresh milk. Drink without
stirring.
                 Orange Gin Sparkle

    One and a b^lf ounces of gin, three dashes of orange
bitters, one dash Angostura bitters; twist piece of lemon
                           II
12         "TAPERING OFF" COCKTAILS


peel and place in container, add ice and shake well. Be
fore serving add a squirt of syphon seltzer.


                    Palm Beach Special

     Two thirds dry gin, one sixth grapefruit juice, one
sixth either French or Italian Vermouth. Place in shaker,
add ice. Shake well and serve in cocktail glass.


                         Gin Rickey

   One portion Gordon gin in tumbler, juice of half a
lime. Leave lime in glass with cracked ice and add soda
water.



             Gin and Italian with Sherry

    Use shaker. One half portion gin, one half portion
Italian Vermouth, exactly one tablespoonful Sherry, one
dash of bitters. Fill with ice, mix, shake and strain.


                Whiskey Fruit Cocktail

   In shaker place one part Scotch or Rye, one part
orange or grapefruit juice. Ice, shake well and serve.
One dash of Angostura bitters if added will enhance the
delicacy of the taste.        ..........




               •I
            TAPERING OFF " COCKTAILS                 13


                Jamaica Rum Cocktail
    A full pony of Jamaica rum, two dashes gum syrup,
two dashes orange bitters, two dashes Angostura bitters,
ice, shake and pour into cocktail glass.

                 Plymouth Cocktail

   Two parts Plymouth gin, one third Italian or French
Vermouth, fill with ice. Shake well and serve with a
twisted piece of lemon or orange peel.
                     CHAPTER V




            RARE AND FANCY DRINKS

  For Impish, Elfish, Mad, Capricious, Fairy Whims

                   Absinthe Frappe

   Scrape ice fine as snow. Place in flat wine-glass, and
cover with a pony of Absinthe; serve with short straw
and suck slowly as ice melts.


                   Peach and Honey

   Over a tablespoonful of raw honey, pour a wine-glass
of Peach brandy. Stir thoroughly and sip slowly.


                         Bishop

    In a large glass pour one wine-glass of water in which
a teaspoonful of powdered sugar has been dissolved. Add
two thin slices of lemon, two dashes of Jamaica rum and
a few small lumps of ice. Fill the glass with Claret or
red-Burgundy, shake well and remove ice before serving.


                      Brandy Fizz

   Mix in a glass a teaspoonful of powdered sugar, three
dashes of lemon juice, and a small lump of ice. Pour in
                           14
            RARE AND FANCY DRINKS                       15


a wine-glass full of brandy. Fill up the glass with seltzer
water, stir thoroughly and serve while effervescent.


                    Brandy Dasher

   Press three or four sprigs of tender mint into the
bottom of a glass in which some sugared water has been
placed. Add a wine-glass full of brandy and fill the glass
two thirds full of shaved ice. Stir thoroughly and orna
ment with half a slice of orange, and a few fresh sprigs
of mint. Serve with a straw.



                    English Bishop

   Roast an orange which has been stuck well with cloves
over a fire, and when sufficiently brown, cut it into
quarters and pour over it a bottle of heated Port wine.
Add a spoonful of honey and let the mixture simmer over
the fire for twenty minutes. Then serve piping hot.


                       Silver Fizz

   In a container place one portion of dry gin, the white
of an egg, two teaspoonfuls of powdered sugar, three
dashes of lemon juice. Fill with ice and shake thoroughly
to combine the ingredients. Serve in a tumbler with
seltzer water.
 i6           RARE AND FANCY DRINKS



                         Ramos Fizz

    Pour in a shaker, one portion of dry gin, juice of
half a lemon, white of one egg, one teaspoonful of
powdered sugar, a few dashes of orange bitters. Fill with
ice and mix thoroughly to combine the ingredients. Serve
in a tumbler with soda water.


                 Fancy Whiskey Cocktail

   Place in shaker one pony Rye whiskey, add two
dashes Maraschino, two dashes bitters, one dash orange
bitters and fill with ice until very cold. Shake and strain
into small whiskey glass.

                Carlton Brandy Cocktail

      In a shaker place a pony of brandy, add three dashes
of Maraschino and two dashes of bitters. Fill with ice
and shake. Pour into cocktail glass which has been pre
pared by moistening its rim with a slice of lemon dipped
in powdered sugar.

                        Locomotive

      In a mug thoroughly beat together the yolk of a raw -
egg, a tablespoonful of honey and three dashes of Cura-
cba. Heat a claret glass of red Burgundy in a thoroughly
clean sauce-pan until it boils, and then pour it gradually
             RARE AND FANCY DRINKS                      17


upon the other ingredients, whisking and stirring the
ingredients all the while in order to prevent curdling.
Serve hot.



                   Sazarac Cocktail

   To one portion of whiskey, add three or four dashes
of Absinthe, one tablespoonful of plain syrup, three
dashes of bitters. Ice, shake well and serve in whiskey
glass, garnished with a sprig of mint which has been
bruised between the thumb and forefinger.


                     Cuban Bacardi

   In container pour one wine-glass of Bacardi rum, add
white of one egg, large tablespoonful of pineapple juice,
same amount of orange juice. Fill shaker three quarters
full of cracked ice, shake rapidly a few times and serve.


                    Champagne Cup

    Into a pitcher place a quart of Champagne, two ponies
of brandy, two teaspoonfuls of powdered sugar, a wine
glass of Sherry, and a dash of Curacoa and Mara
schino. Add pieces of pineapple, orange, and berries in
season. Garnish with fresh mint and serve in champagne
goblet.
i8         RARE AND FANCY DRINKS


                    Whiskey Smash

    Mix together a teaspoonful of powdered sugar, dis
solved in a little water, a wine-glass of whiskey, and put
in three or four sprigs of young mint which have been
bruised between the thumb and forefinger.




                                                      I'l ifili   ^ I rl ill
                       CHAPTER VI




               FANCY WINE DRINKS

For the Pink-Jowled, Round-Paunched, Side-Whiskered
  Lover of Red, Gold, Purple and Plain White Wines

                          Rajah

   Roast four bitter oranges until they are of a pale
brown color. Lay them in a tureen and cover them with
a half pound of granulated sugar, adding three glasses
of Claret. Cover the tureen and let it stand until the
next day. Then place the tureen in a pan of boiling water,
press the oranges with a spoon, until the juice spurts, and
run the juice through a sieve to strain it clear. Add to it
two glassfuls of boiling Claret and serve warm in goblets.
Port wine may be substituted for Claret, and lemons may
be used instead of oranges, but this is not often done
when Claret is used.


                   Mulled Muscatel

    Into a pot of boiling water put a suitable quantity
of cloves, cinnamon and grated nutmeg. When the
flavor becomes pungent to the nostrils pour in an equal
amount of Muscatel wine in which a few teaspoonfuls
of sugar have been dissolved. Bring the whole to the
boiling point, and serve piping hot with crisp dry
                           19
 20               FANCY WINE DRINKS


 toast. Mulled wine can be made with Port, Claret or
 Madeira.

                          Claret Cup

     Mix into a container one bottle of Claret wine, a half
 pint of iced water, a tablespoonful of powdered sugar,
 and one teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, cloves and
 allspice, mixed. Squirt in the juice of a small lemon. Stir
 the ingredients well together, adding the thin rind of
 the lemon. This is a delicate summer beverage for eve
 ning parties.

                       Sherry Egg Nog

    Pour into a large bar glass two wine-glasses of Sherry
 wine, a well-beaten egg and fill rest with rich creamy
 milk. Add a few lumps of ice. Stir thoroughly and strain
 into a large goblet. Grate a little nutmeg on top and
 remove ice before serving.

                     Rhine and Seltzer

      Fill a glass half full of Rhine wine. Add ice and fill up
with seltzer water. Serve very cold. This is an excellent
thirst quencher.

                       Sherry Cobbler

~ Into a large glass put one tablespoonful of powdered
 white sugar, one quarter of an orange cut up into pieces
              FANCY WINE DRINKS                        21


and two small pieces of pineapple. Fill the glass nearly
full of shaved ice, then fill up with Sherry wine. Orna
ment the top with berries in season, and serve with
straws.


                 Champagne Cobbler
   Fill container one third full of shaved ice, throw in a
piece of orange or lemon peel, fill up with Champagne,
ornament with berries in season and serve with straws.


                   Baclanova Nectar
   In a large container peel and shred fine the rind of
half a lemon, add a tablespoonful of powdered sugar and
the juice of a whole lemon. Cut in a few thin slices of
cucumber with the peel on. Add a bottle of Claret, a
pint of Champagne and a bottle of seltzer water. Fill with
ice, stir thoroughly and serve.

                   Sherrio Cocktail

   To one part of Sherry wine add an equal amount of
Vermouth, two dashes of orange bitters, place in a shaker
with ice, and stir thoroughly and serve.

                 Champagne Cocktail

   In a goblet place one lump of loaf sugar saturated
with Angostura bitters, one cube'of ice and one piece of
22                        FANCY WINE DRINKS


twisted lemon peel. Fill the goblet with cold Champagne,
stir with a spoon and serve.

                                  Poet Wine Sangaeee

   Into a glass of Port wine pour a half teaspoonful of
powdered sugar, and add a few small lumps of ice. Shake
up well, strain into a claret goblet and serve with a little
grated nutmeg on top.




                    -t:
          •niiiirfl'i'i'i'Tt'''
                    CHAPTER VII




         PUNCHES AND PARTY DRINKS

  For Those Who See in the Bottom of a Punchbowl
   a Horoscope of Gaiety, Joy, Revelry, Carousing
                  and Happy Madness

                    Nectar Punch

   Into a small punch bowl pour a quart of rum, one
pint of milk boiling hot, one quart of cold water, and a
pound of granulated sugar. Cool gradually and add ice.
Add a few slices of apple before serving.

                 Punch a la Romaine

   For a party of fifteen to twenty persons, dissolve two
pounds of powdered sugar in the juice of ten lemons and
two sweet oranges, adding the thin rind of one orange.
Strain this through a sieve into a large punch bowl and
add the white of ten eggs beaten to a froth. Place the
bowl on ice for a while, then stir in briskly a quart of
rum, and two bottles of Port wine. Do not serve too cold.

                     Claret Punch

   Fill a tumbler two thirds full of shaved ice, add a
teaspoonful of powdered sugar, a slice of lemon and a
                           23
24        PUNCHES AND PARTY DRINKS


slice of orange, both cut into quarters; fill with Claret,
shake well, and ornament with berries in season. Serve
with a straw.

                    Sauteene Punch

     Fill a small container two thirds full of shaved ice.
Add one teaspoonful of powdered sugar, one slice of
lemon, one slice of orange, one piece of pineapple. Fill
with Sauterne, ornament with berries in season and serve
with a straw.

                   Champagne Punch

    Mix together in a container, one quart of Champagne,
three tablespoonfuls of sugar, one orange sliced, the
juice of a lemon, two slices of pineapple cut into small
pieces and a wine-glass measure of raspberry or straw
berry syrup. Put in a few lumps of ice. Ornament with
fruits in season and serve in champagne goblets after
removing ice.

                     Orange Punch

    Cut the-peel of two oranges into a quart and a half
of water and squeeze in the juice of four oranges; also
drop in a small cupful of powdered sugar. Allow to boil
half an hour and add a half pint of porter, three quarters
of a pint of rum and an equal amount of brandy. A
liqueur glass of Curacoa and a dash of Maraschino will
         PUNCHES AND PARTY DRINKS                       25


improve the drink immensely. Serve piping hot. Lemon
Punch may be made with this formula by substituting
lemons for oranges.

                      Brandy Punch

   Into a punch bowl mix a teaspoonful of powdered
sugar dissolved in a little water, a teaspoonful of rasp
berry syrup, a wine-glass of brandy, half a wine-glass of
Jamaica rum, juice of half a lemon, two slices of orange
and a piece of pineapple. Fill the bowl with shaved ice,
stir thoroughly and dress the top with berries in season.
Serve with a straw.

            Hot Brandy and Rum Punch

    This is an excellent punch for a party of fifteen com
ing in from cold and biting weather. Rub a pound of
white loaf sugar over four lemons until it has absorbed
all the yellow part of the skins, then put the sugar into
a large punch bowl, stirring it together with the lemon
juice. Pour three quarts of boiling water over this, adding
a quart of Jamaica rum, a quart of brandy and a tea
spoonful of grated nutmeg. Mix thoroughly and the punch
will be ready to serve.

                       Milk Punch

   In a large glass pour a teaspoonful of white sugar, a
wine-glass full of brandy, one half wine-glass of rum
26       PUNCHES AND PARTY DRINKS



and a small lump of ice. Fill the glass with milk, shake
well and grate a little nutmeg on top before serving.


                    Imperial Punch

    Into a large pitcher pour a bottle of Claret, a bottle
of soda water, four tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, a
quarter teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, and a liqueur
glass of Maraschino. Put in a few large lumps of ice and
three or four slices of cucumber rind. Mix well and
serve.




                  St. Charles Punch

    In a large glass pour one teaspoonful of sugar dis
solved in a little water, one wine-glass of Port wine, one
pony of brandy and the juice of a quarter of a lemon.
Fill the glass with shaved ice, stir well, ornament with
fruits in season and serve with a straw.



          .        El Dorado Punch

    Pour into a large glass a pony of brandy, a half pony
of Jamaica rum, a half pony of Bourbon, and add a
tablespoonful of sugar and a slice of lemon. Fill the glass
with fine ice, stir well and ornament with berries and
small pieces of orange. Serve with a straw.
         PUNCHES AND PARTY DRINKS                       27



            Claret Cup a la Henry VIII

   Peel off the rind of a lemon and mix both the juice and
rind with powdered sugar. Pour over them a glass of
Sherry and a bottle of Claret and sweeten to taste. Add
a sprig of verbena and a bottle of soda water with a little
grated nutmeg. Strain the mixture and serve with ice.
                      CHAPTER VIII




  HOT DRINKS FOR THE FEVERED, CHILLED
                        AND COLD

For Wet Feet, Chattering Teeth, Cold Spines, Shivers,
       Goose-Flesh, Frozen Fingers and Chilblain

                       Blue Blazer

   Use two glass mugs. In one dissolve a teaspoonful of
powdered sugar with a wine-glass of boiling water. Pour
in one wine-glass of Scotch whiskey. Ignite the liquid
with fire, and while blazing mix the ingredients by pour
ing from one mug to the other, four or five times. If ex
pertly done it will have the appearance of a continued
stream of fire, but the novice should be careful not to
scald himself. Serve piping hot in a small glass with a
piece of twisted lemon peel.

                         Hot Rum

    In a heated bar glass pour one wine-glass of Jamaica
rum. Add a teaspoonful of powdered sugar and a small
piece of butter, big as the end of your fingernail. Fill with
boilihg water, stirring as you pour. Grate a little nutmeg
on top and serve.


                             28
   HOT DRINKS FOR THE FEVERED, ETC.                     29


                   Port Wine Negus

    Pour a large glass of Port wine into a pitcher. Rub
five or six lumps of sugar against the rind of a lemon
until all the yellow part of the skin is absorbed by the
sugar. Squeeze the lemon juice on the sugar, strain, and
add the lemon Juice and sugar to the Port wine. Add
grated nutmeg, fill up with boiling water, cover the whole,
and when cooled off it will be ready to serve.


                    Hot Gin Sling

     Dissolve a small spoonful of powdered sugar in a
little boiling water, add a wine-glass of gin, and fill up
with boiling water. Grate a little nutmeg on top and
serve.




                     Rock and Rye

    Stir together in a small container one tablespoonful
of rock-candy syrup and one wine-glass full of Rye whis
key. Heat over a flame and drink hot. This is excellent
for a cold.


                      Hot Italian

   Pare the rind of four lemons, and squeeze the juice
upon the peel, steeping it overnight. Then add half a
pound of loaf sugar, a large glass of Sherry wine and a
30    HOT DRINKS FOR THE FEVERED, ETC.


large glass of boiling water. Stir well, add three large
glasses of boiling milk, strain through a cloth and serve
piping hot.

                   Hot Scotch Punch

   Mix in a large glass, one wine-glass of Scotch whiskey,
two wine-glasses of boiling water. Add two lumps of
sugar and serve.

               Hot Irish Whiskey Punch

   Mix in large glass, one wine-glass of Irish whiskey,
two wine-glasses of boiling water, two lumps of sugar.
Put in a small piece of lemon rind or a thin slice of lemon.
Before using the glass, rinse it in hot water.

                   Hot Brandy Toddy

     Dissolve a teaspoonful of powdered sugar in a little
boiling water, add brandy and fill up with boiling water.
Add a little grated nutmeg on top and serve.

                      Hot Applejack

     Fill a container two thirds full of boiling water, and
one third full of applejack. Squirt in juice of one quarter
of a lemon, add two spoonfuls of sugar, garnish with a
slice of lemon and serve.
                    CHAPTER IX




                  SUICIDE DRINKS

For Bankrupts, Jilted Lovers, Gamblers' Losing Streaks,
   Examination Failures, Business Depressions and
              Husbands Caught Cheating

             North and South Cocktail

   In shaker place one part Jamaica rum, and one part
of dry gin, juice of one orange or one half lemon, and a
dash bitters. Ice, shake thoroughly and strain into glass.

                   Cholera Cocktail

    In a bar glass pour half a teaspoonful of Jamaica
ginger, one third brandy, one third Port wine, and one
sixth each of Cherry and Blackberry brandy. Grate nut
meg on top, and stir with spoon. Use no ice.

                   Tom Gin Martini

   One half part of Tom gin, one half part of Italian
Vermouth, (French if you prefer dry) fill with ice, shake,
and serve with a green olive.

                   Planter's Punch

   Use long glass. Squirt in the juice of a fresh lime, two
portions of sugar a pony of water, four portions of old
                           31
 32                   SUICIDE DRINKS


Jamaica rum. Fill glass with shaved ice, shake well, add
a dash of red pepper, and serve very cold with long
straws.

                      Vermouth Cocktail

    Place in container one portion of Italian Vermouth,
one dash of bitters, fill with ice and strain into a cocktail
glass.
                    Hot Whiskey Toddy

      Dissolve a teaspoonful of sugar in boiling water, in a
large bar glass. Add one wine-glass of Bourbon or Rye
whiskey, and fill up with boiling water.

                      Rob Roy Cocktail

   To two parts of Scotch whiskey add one part Ver
mouth and several dashes of orange bitters. Ice, shake
well, and strain into a cocktail glass.

                  Split Soda and Brandy

   In a medium glass pour a ponyful of brandy and a
small lump of ice, squirt full with seltzer water, and drink
while effervescent.
                        CHAPTER X




LADIES' COCKTAILS AND OTHER DELICACIES

  The Women Will No Doubt Speak for Themselves

                     Alexander Cocktail

   In a shaker place one third gin, one third Creme de
Cocoa, and one third rich cream. Fill with ice and shake
well in order to get a thorough mixture. Strain and serve
in cocktail glass.

                     Coronation Cocktail
   In shaker place one third dry gin, one third Cointreau
Triple Sec and one third white Creme de Menthe. Shake
up thoroughly so as to mix cordials. Chop in ice, fine but
not too fine. Strain into cocktail glass.
               Orange Curacoa Cocktail
    In container mix one part gin, one part orange gin,
three dashes Curacoa, sweeten with half a teaspoonful of
powdered sugar or honey, fill with ice and stir well
before serving.
                       Coral Cocktail

    In shaker place two parts gin, one part French or
Italian Vermouth and half a teaspoonful of Five Fruits
syrup. Ice, shake well and serve in cordial glass.
                             33
34    LADIES' COCKTAILS AND DELICACIES


                    Russet Cocktail

    In a cocktail shaker place one part sweet cider, one
part dry gin, and a teaspoonful of Grenadine or rasp
berry syrup. Add a few pieces of ice, shake well and strain
into cocktail glass.

                    Port Wine Flip

     Pour one portion of Port wine in container, one tea-
spoonful of powdered sugar, one raw egg well beaten, ice
and shake thoroughly. Serve with grated nutmeg or cin
namon on top.

                   Egg Port Cocktail

     One part Port wine, one raw egg, and two dashes of
bitters. Fill with shaved ice, shake thoroughly to stir up
egg in the container and strain into cocktail glass before
serving.
                 Sherry Mint Cocktail

    Place a pony of Sherry wine in a cocktail shaker, cut
in two fine sprays of mint, add a dash of lemon or lime
juige, shake well and strain into Delmonico glass after
cold icing.
                   Duchess Cocktail

     Place one third each of French and Italian Vermouth
and one third Absinthe in shaker. Fill with ice, shake
well and serve in Delmonico glass.
     LADIES' COCKTAILS AND DELICACIES                35


                       Pousse Cafe

   Pour carefully into a long thin cordial glass the fol
lowing in rotation: raspberry syrup, orange Curacoa,
green Creme de Menthe and brandy. Other Combinations
of cordials may be effected, always bearing in mind that
the heaviest should be poured first and always end with
brandy.

                   Queen of Ireland
   Place two thirds green Creme de Menthe in shaker,
one third Vermouth and one dash of orange bitters; fill
with ice, shake well to get a smooth mixture and strain
into cocktail glass.

                 Fancy Sour Cocktail

   In shaker place one portion Vermouth, three dashes
of Maraschino, four dashes of bitters and a dash of
orange bitters. Squirt in juice of a quarter of a lemon.
Fill with ice, shake and strain into cocktail glass.
                    CHAPTER XI




              TEMPERANCE DRINKS

    Whenever the Stoic Spirit of Denial Seizes You

                    Purple Nectar

  , Into a pitcher pour three pints of ginger ale. Add
one half pint of plain grape juice. Ice well and squeeze
in half a lemon. Remove ice when sufficiently cold to
serve.

                        Ambrosia

    In a pitcher of iced water, dip a small bag of tea
until the water is slightly flavored. Add four spoonfuls
of sugar. Cup up an orange into small pieces and allow
to float in the drink. Then stir up with three spoonfuls
of orange marmalade. Serve cold.

                        Milk Fizz

   Fill an ordinary water glass three fourths full of
ginger ale, add the rest milk. Stir with a spoonful of
honey and drink cold.

                Nectar for Dog Days

   Place a snow-ball of shaved ice in a goblet, squirt
lemon juice over it and pour iced soda water over it till
goblet is filled. This is a refreshing "thirst quencher.
                              36
              TEMPERANCE DRINKS                         37


                    Saratoga Cooler

    Mix in a large glass one bottle of ginger ale just off
the ice, juice of half a lemon, and one teaspoonful of
powdered sugar.
                     Soda Cocktail

   In bottom of a large glass pour one teaspoonful of
powdered sugar, three or four lumps of ice, and two
dashes of Angostura bitters. Pour over these ingredients
a cold bottle of soda water, stir and remove ice before
serving.
                   Iced Sarsaparilla

    Mix in a small pitcher two bottles of sarsaparilla,
juice of half a lemon and add plenty of ice. Serve very
cold.
                      Soda Nectar

    One glass of soda water, add a squirt of lemon juice,
ice and add two or three drops of vanilla extract.

                   Milk and Seltzer

   Fill half a glass with cold milk, and the rest with iced
seltzer. Drink while effervescent.

                     Cider Cocktail

   In a Delmonico glass place one half a teaspoonful
of sugar, add two dashes of bitters, twist in a piece of
38             TEMPERANCE DRINKS


lemon peel, add a few lumps of ice, fill with cider, and
stir well before serving.

                   Phosphate Special

   In a container pour three fourths of nonalcoholic
Vermouth, three dashes of phosphate, three dashes of
orange bitters, fill with cracked ice, shake well and strain
into cocktail glass.
                       Oggle Noggle

   Beat a whole raw egg into a glass of boiling milk.
Add a spoonful of sugar and a small lump of butter big
as the end of your fingernail. Stir well and serve hot.
This is a healthy and refreshing drink for growing
children.
                        Lemonade

    Squeeze two or three pieces of orange and half a
lemon into a large glass or small bowl. Fill with water
and add ice. Add two spoonfuls of sugar. Allow pieces
of lemon and orange to float in bowl together with three
or four Maraschino cherries.

                       Egg Lemonade

    In a large glass mix juice of half a lemon, one tea-
spoonful of powdered sugar, one raw egg, and three or
four small pieces of ice. Stir up thoroughly in a shaker,
strain into a soda-water glass and fill up with seltzer
water. Ornament with berries and serve cold.
                     CHAPTER XII




  MISCELLANEOUS DRINKS FOR ANYWHERE
                    AND ANYTIME

For Doctor, Lawyer or Indian Chief; Rich Man, Poor
                  Man or Wicked Thief

                  Metropole Cocktail
   Two parts brandy to one part French Vermouth in a
glass. Add two dashes each of ordinary bitters, orange
bitters, and gum; fill with cracked ice, mix and pour into
cocktail glass.


             Forty-Second Country Club
   In a shaker put two thirds Rye whiskey and one
third Italian Vermouth; add a dash of Absinthe. Fill with
ice, shake well and serve in cocktail glass.

                  Manhattan Cocktail
    To one part Rye whiskey add an equal amount of
Italian Vermouth (French if dry is preferred), add two
dashes bitters, two dashes gum, crushed ice, shake well
and serve with a Maraschino cherry.

                           39
40          MISCELLANEOUS DRINKS


           Old Fashioned Brandy Cocktail

   In a large whiskey glass place a lump of sugar. Pour
enough hot water to cover the sugar. Add a lump of ice
and two dashes of bitters. Over this pour one portion of
brandy. Twist a small piece of lemon peel and place in
glass. Stir with small spoon, and serve with spoon in
glass.
                         Fedora

    In a large bar glass, half full of shaved ice, drop two
teaspoonfuls of granulated sugar. To this add one part
Curacoa, one part brandy, one half part Jamaica rum
and one half part whiskey. Stir the whole well, dress up
attractively with berries and pieces of fruit, and serve
with long straws.
                     Rum Cocktail

  In a shaker pour two parts rum and one part Ver
mouth. Add two or three dashes of Angostura bitters, mix
well, and serve in cocktail glass.
                    Whiskey Cocktail

   In a shaker, add to each drink of Rye whiskey, two
dashes of gum syrup and two dashes of Angostura bit
ters; fill with ice, shake a few times and strain into a
whiskey glass. Add a twist of lemon or lime peel before
serving.
             MISCELLANEOUS DRINKS                          41


                     Florida Special

   Place a cube of ice in a six ounce glass, fill with one
pony Bacardi rum, juice of a grapefruit, twist of lime
peel, and stir with a highball mixer.


                      Club Cocktail

    Fill a large bar glass half full of shaved ice. Pour in
a jigger of brandy; to this add two dashes of Angostura
bitters, two dashes of pineapple juice, and two dashes
of Maraschino. Stir well and strain into a cocktail glass.
Garnish with berries, and on top of the drink drop a thin
slice of lemon.



             Brandy Vermouth Cocktail

    One part brandy to one part Italian Vermouth, half
a spoonful of powdered sugar, a dash of bitters; stir
thoroughly until sugar is dissolved. Fill up with cracked
ice using Delmonico glass; then fill with seltzer. (If dry
cocktail is desired, use French Vermouth and no sugar.)

                  Vermouth Sec Cocktail

   Place in a container one portion of French Vermouth,
add two dashes of bitters, fill with ice, mix and strain in
a cocktail glass.




                                                    A J?'''[
                                                    it.
42            MISCELLANEOUS DRINKS


                 Brandy and Ginger Ale

   Into a large glass pour a wine-glass of brandy, two or
three lumps of ice and fill up with ginger ale; drink while
still effervescent.


                       Cold Irish

    Pour into a large glass two wine-glasses of water in
which a teaspoonful of fine white sugar has been dis
solved, add a wine-glass of Irish whiskey and a large
lump of ice; stir with a spoon, and serve very cold.
                                                              .'•'TV.IV \




                    CHAPTER XIII




        CELEBRITIES' FAVORITE DRINKS

What Some of Our Best Known People Drinh When
                    They Are Abroad
BEN BERNIE, Orchestrian Extraordinary.
   " In London I have found an excellent Chablis. In
Berlin at times I have enjoyed something like a ' Sauterne
Cobbler.' It is made by filling a container with Sauterne,
adding shaved ice, and throwing in a few white cherries
and small pieces of pineapple to give it color. Travel is
not without its benefits."

WINNIE LIGHTNER, international star of musical
       shows.
    " When I was playing in London I used to call for a
drink that all my friends laughed at, but after a while
they began to call it the ' Lightner Special.' Absinthe
and Canada Dry ginger ale stirred up together in a glass.
Can you imagine it? " -

 BIG BILL" TILDEN, most famous of tennis stars.
   " I use only water."

CHARLES WINNINGER, musical comedy star.
    " Have you heard of the ' Pousse I'Amour' ? Try it
at the Cafe du Dome in Paris. First, pour very carefully
into a sherry glass one half a glassful of Maraschino, then
                             43




     1 n'M •
44             CELEBRITIES' DRINKS


introduce the yolk of a raw egg with a spoon without
disturbing the Maraschino; next carefully surround the
egg with vanilla cordial, and lastly pour a tablespoonful
of fine old brandy on top. Be careful not to mix the in
gredients. This requires a steady hand, but the drink is
heavenly."

MISS VIVIENNE SEGAL, famous star of light opera.
   " This exquisite mixture has always been my favorite.
Three quarters of a cordial glass full of Benedictine.
The balance rich sweet cream. I believe it is known as
' Creme Benedictine.' "

JOHN CLARKE, Ziegfeld star.
    " Side Car Punch, as it is made in London is hard to
forget. For a party of ten, slice four oranges and a juicy
pineapple into a punch bowl. Pour a bottle of fine Cognac
brandy over them and let it steep for a few hours; then
pour in three bottles of iced Champagne and serve im
mediately. A marvelous concoction! "

YVONNE D'ARLE, musical comedienne.
  " I still prefer the old, reliable Clover Club Cocktail.
They are mixing it now even at Deauville. In a shaker
place a-pony of dry gin, juice of half a lime, white of
a raw egg, and a spoonful of Grenadine. Fill with ice,
shake and strain into,a .cocktail, glass. When serving it
should be garnished with.a sprig of. fresh mint.".
              CELEBRITIES' DRINKS                       45


TRIXIE FRIGANZA, celebrated vaudevilUenne.
    "In that nautical city of Venice I first made the ac
quaintance of a remarkably delicious drink known as
' Port and Starboard.' Pour one half part Grenadine or
raspberry syrup into a cordial glass. Then on top of this
pour one half portion of Creme de Menthe slowly so that
the ingredients will not mix. Dear old Venice."

CHARLES ELLIS, Ziegfeld star.
   " I have found the Boulevard Cocktail a very pleasing
drink. To one part gin, and half a part each of Italian
and French Vermouth, add one half portion orange or
grapefruit juice. Ice in a shaker and strain into cocktail
glasses. You may try it at the Cafe Rotonde, in Paris."

KARL K. KITCHEN, Broadway's favorite colyumnist.
   " jNIy good friend, Harry Craddock, bartender of the
Savoy Hotel in London, and dean of all bartenders,
braced me up like a new-born infant with a new cocktail
he invented for me on the spur of the moment. It is
called a ' Hercules,' half gin and half Mati, the Mati
coming from Mexico."




                                                  ••   • V   •
                                       1
                 CHAPTER XIV




                     TOASTS

For All Good Fellows Who Will Not Drink Alone

                To Our Friends

      The Lord gives us our relatives;
      Thank God we can choose our friends.




          May we kiss whom we please,
          And please whom we kiss.



As for the women, though we scorn and flout 'em.
We may live with, but not without 'em.


      Drink and the world drinks with you,
      Swear off and you drink alone.



    May you all be hung, drawn and quartered!
   'Yes — hung with diamonds,
    Drawn in a coach and four
    And quartered in the best houses in the land.
                         46
                  TOASTS                       47


Drink! and we'll never be planted deep;
Drink! and our graves will never be dug;
No wives and kids will stand round and weep,
For they'll just pour us back into the jug.


  Here's to champagne, the drink divine.
   That makes us forget our troubles;
  It's made of a dollar's worth of wine
     And three dollars' worth of bubbles.


  Here's to you as good as you are.
    And to me as bad as I am, •
  As good as you are and as bad as I am,
    I'm as good as you are, as bad as I am.


    Here's to a long life and a merry one,
    A quick death and an easy one,
    A pretty girl and a true one,
    A full bottle and another one.



    Here is a riddle most abstruse;
    Can you read the answer right?
    Why is it that my tongue grows loose.
        Only when I grow tight ?
48                        TOASTS


       Here's to love — the only fire against which
                   there is no insurance.


              Let's be gay while we may,
                 And seize love with laughter;
              I'll be true as long as you,
                And not a moment after.


       Here's to the love that lies in woman's eyes.
       And lies, and lies, and lies.

     Here's to Woman — the fairest work of the Great
Author. The edition is large, and no man should be with
out a copy.

          Here's to the wings of love —
            May they never lose a feather.
          Till my big boots and your little shoes
            Are under the bed together.

May the best day we have seen be the worst that is to
     come.



          Here's to the girl I love —
             I wish that she were nigh;       ,
          If 'drinking beer would bring her- near,
            I'd drink the damn "place dry.
                        TOASTS                   49



After man came woman — and she has been after him
   ever since.




   Here's to the club girl,
   Here's to the tub girl,
   Here's to the lass who looks you through;
   Here's to the mannish girl.
   Here's to the clannish girl —
   Drink to 'em standing — the petticoat crew!




                                                      '• r




                                                      -'i


                   •.      iA' j .'k.
                              INDEX




                          Page                                       Page
Absinthe Frappe               14            Cider Cocktail .'.           37
Alabama Mint Julep             6            Claret Cup                   20
Albermarle Cocktail            8            Claret Cup a la Henry VIII 27 I
Alexander Cocktail            33            Claret Punch                 23
Amber Dream                    S            Clover Club Cocktail         44
Ambrosia                      36            Club Cocktail                41
Apple Brandy Cocktail          6            Cold Brandy Flip             10
                                            Cold Irish                   42
Baclanova Nectar              21            Coral Cocktail               33
Bishop                        14            Coronation Cocktail          33
Blue Blazer                   28            Country Cocktail              7
Boulevarde Cocktail           45            Cibme Benedictine            44
Brandy and Ginger Ale ....    42            Crimson Cocktail              g
Brandy and Soda               ii            Cuban Bacardi                17
Brandy Dasher                  15
                                            Dubonnet Cocktail             2
Brandy Fizz                    14
Brandy Port Nog                 3           Duchess Cocktail             34
Brandy Punch                  '23
                                            Egg Bacardi Rum Cocktail .   10
Brandy Smash ...!              6            Egg Lemonade                 38
Brandy Sour                     i
                                            Egg Nog                       8
Brandy Vermouth Cocktail       41
                                            Ep Port Cocktail             34
Bronx Cocktail                  6
                                            Egg Whiskey Fizz              g
                                            El Dorado Punch              26
Carlton Brandy Cocktail ...    16
                                            English Bishop               13
Champagne Cobbler              21
Champagne Cocktail             21           Fancy Sour Cocktail          33
Champagne Cup                  17           Fancy Whiskey Cocktail ...   16
Champagne Punch                24           Fedora                       40
Charleston Bracer                  i        Florida Special              41
Cholera Cocktail               31            Forty-Second Country Club   3g
                                       51
 52                            .INDEX


                               Page                                 Page
 Gin and Italian                  9   Metropole Cocktail              39
 Gin and Italian with Sherry     12   Milk Fizz                       36
 Gin Rickey                      12   Milk Punch                      25
Gin Sour                          i   Milk and Seltzer                37
Golden Fizz                      8    Mint Julep                       s
                                      Mint Spray Cocktaii              4
Havana Special Cocktail ...      s    Minute Man Highball              3
Hercules                        45    Mulled Muscatel                 19
Holland Old Fashioned ....       S
Hot Applejack                   30    Nectar for Dog Days             36
Hot Brandy and Rum Punch        23    Nectar Punch                    23
Hot Brandy Toddy                30    North and South Cocktail ..     31
Hot Gin Sling                   29
Hot Irish                        9
                                      Oggle Noggle                    38
Hot Irish Whiskey Punch ..      30
                                      Old    Fashioned     Brandy
Hot Italian                     29
Hot Rum                         28
                                        Cocktail                      40
Hot Scotch Punch                30
                                      Orange Blossom Cocktail ...      4
                                      Orange Blossom Special ...       4
Hot Spiced Rum                   8
                                      Orange Curacoa Cocktail ...     33
Hot Whiskey Toddy               32
                                      Orange Gin Sparkle              11
Iced Sarsaparilla               37    Orange Punch                    24
Imperial Punch                  26
                                      Palm Beach Special              12
Jamaica Bitters                  3    Peach and Honey                 14
Jamaica Glow                     2    Pearl Cocktail                   2
Jamaica Rum Cocktail ....       13    Phosphate Special               38
                                      Planter's Punch               _ 31
Lemonade                        ^8    Plymouth Cocktail               13
Lightner Special                43    Port and Starboard              45
Locorflotive                    16    Port Wine Flip                  34
                                      Port Wine Negus                 jg
Manhattan Cocktail              39    Port Wine Sangaree              22
Martini Cocktail                 4    Pousse Cafe                    35
                      INDEX                                 S3


                     Page                                Page
Pousse ramour          43       Sherry Mint Cocktail        34
Punch k la Romaine     23       Side Car Punch              44
Purple Nectar          36       Silver Fizz                 15
                                Soda Cocktail               37
Queen of Ireland       35       Soda Nectar                 37
                                Split Soda and Brandy       33
Rajah                  19       St. Charles Punch           26'
Ramos Fizz             16       Stinger                      2
Rhine and Seltzer      20
Rob Roy Cocktail       32       Tom and Jerry                10
Rock and Rye           29       Tom Collins                   3
Rum Cocktail           40       Tom Gin Martini .........    31
Russet Cocktail        34
                                Vermouth Cocktail            32
Saratoga Cooler        37       Vermouth Sec Cocktail        41
Sauterne Cobbler       43
Sauterne Punch         24       Water                        43
Sazarac Cocktail       17       Whiskey Cocktail             40
Shcrrio Cocktail'      21       Whiskey Fruit Cocktail       12
Sherry and Egg         10       Whiskey Smash                i8
Sherry Cobbler         20       Whiskey Sour                 n
Sherry Egg Nog         20       White Plush                  n




                                                            •ijm
                                                             it

                            !    ri^ Ht'r lieii'
                '7-;




• '•{   I   • ..i' ' ii'-**
                5 . •




                   ♦1




^. ''j;' ':i:
•




    %




                        I


         ••ir'J-.Vt
             * . • t'




        Vv
                  -if ?.




            •*•

                   i.-.t

^   #   •



             mim
