    OLD
'W ALDORF BAR
    DAYS
)'.                                                      :<


           OLD
      WALDORF BAR DAYS
                With the Gognomina and
                    Gompos£t£on of
      Four Hundred and Ninety-one Appealing Appetizers
        and Salutary Potations Long Known, Admired
          and Served at the Famous Big Brass Rail;
                          ... also ...
            A Glossary for the Use of Antiquarians
              and Students of American Mores
                    by
         ALBERT STEVENS CROCKETT
                    with Illustrations by
                    LEIGHTON Bunn




                       ~wYor{

               AVENTINE PRESS
                    1931
                                                         ·~
COPYRIGHT,     1931,   BY ALBERT STE V ENS         CROCKETT




                                         (I   {I




PRINTED   IN    THE    UNITED   STATES   OF        AMERICA
                  I:>(,
          r:Yrr e r:Yrr   e PJ
                   OF

CERTAIN GENTLEMEN OF OTHER DAYS,

     WHO MADE OF DRINKING

 ONE OF THE PLEASURES OF LIFE-

      NOT ONE OF ITS EVILS;

     WHO ACHIEVED CONTENT

       LONG ERE CAPACITY

   WAS REACHED OR OVERTAXED;

                  AND

   WHO, WHATEVER THEY DRANK,

    PROVED ABLE TO CARRY IT,

        KEEP THEIR HEADS

     AND REMAIN GENTLEMEN,

       EVEN IN THEIR CUPS
                      FOREWORD

A    GENERATION HAS g;;own up among us whose philoso-

      phy of life is not that of twenty years ago. It calls itself
sophisticated. Perhaps it has reason. This is a complex age.
Civilization has become complex and often it seems our young
people are sujferingfrom some sort of complex, ~fit is only
that of "superiority."
   But some of us like occasionally to dwell on the past, to
recall simpler days when nothing was complex and there
was no talk of" complexes"; days when drinking was often
an honored social custom among gentlemen, and when the
man who indulged enjoyed the full protectio'f!. of government,
and did not thus necessarily render himself, in effect, an
enemy of law and order.
   Those days are past. Some say that in this country they
will never return. This is no prophecy or argument.
   But twenty years ago, over almost every thirsty lip in all
parts of the world where English was spoken, had passed
the name of one place of refreshment which in many ways



                                         -
                       FOREWORD

 had no peer. So far, no attempt has been made to recreate in
 print just what that place was and what it meant. What
follows is a study of the old Waldorf Bar and its happen-
 ings, as representative of a phase of American social life
 which was once important, yet which-so slight is resem-
 blance between that Bar and any speakeasy-may be said
 to have disappeared as completely as the vast enterprise of
 which it was long one of the most popular and most remu-
 nerative departments.
    The author does not assume to be an authority on the
 composition of drinks or their ejfects-except as an ob-
 server. But he first saw the old Waldorf Bar about one
 month after its opening in the autumn of 1897. He had
 occasion to enter it frequently during the first seventeen
years of the century; it was one place where a newspaper
reporter could be sure offinding a patron of the hotel whom
 he wished to interview and who happened to be in no other
part of the building. For two years of that time his office was
 in the hotel and he visited the Bar daily in search of news.
 In gathering material for this book, he has had assistance
from many veteran employes of the old Waldorf, some of
 whom date from the days of the "sit-down" caji, that ran
for more than four years. before the brass-rail Bar opened,
 with which this book is mainly concerned. And among his
 other collaborators have been regular patrons of the Bar
 who knew its habitu-is and what went on there.
                   CONTENTS
                                     PAGE

PART I                                  5
   What and Wherefore

PART   II                              II

   Many Schools in One

PART   III                             2I

   Hall of Fame

PART   IV                             45
    Bar Patterns

PARTY

   Faculty and Proctors

PART   VI                             IOI

    Concerning the Curriculum .

PART   VII                            IIJ
   Drun.k at the Old f/7aldorj Bar

PART   VIII
   Glossary
   OLD
WALDORF BAR
   DAYS




          ,,
,·:/
 ,/
   I           OLD
   I
          WALDORF BAR DAYS
   I
               "And drop upon its grave a tear."



                           PART I

              What and Wherefore
"lf ET WHO will write the history: of a people, if I am but
 L      permitted to write its songs," is something like the
  way somebody once put it. That sentime·i:it I can under-
  stand and appreciate. But when it comes to "letting
  George do it," as a cartoonist taughtt: us to say, I sing in
  a different key. Were I to subscribe to a sort of laissez
 faire with regard to the history of the American people,
. rather than write its songs, or sing them-which latter
  might prove more difficult-I should prefer to drink its
  drinks.
     Not, mind you, the American drinks of to-day. Them
  I would not dare tackle-at least, most of them. When I
  speak of the drinks of the American people, I mean those
  appetizers and stimulative potations of American origin
  and invention, which, until the adven't of statutory ref-
  ormation, and in what would now seem bewildering
  variety and abundance, were to be had by any tree .
  citizen, did he know where to go-and had the price.
     Indeed, for many years there existed a real and dis-
  tinctive American School of Drinking--one that had a
  recognized standing, if not among ins ti tu tions of learning,
                             [ 5]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
then among college and university men all over the
United States, and in many parts of the world. Harvard,
Yale, Princeton and Cornell men, for example, in large
numbers, either there supplemented their collegiate cur-
ricula, or else went to it for post-graduate courses. Other
institutions of learning were represented among its stu-
dents, but at least the names of those four have been
perpetuated in its annals by having cocktails named
after them-if there can be such a thing as perpetuity
when one is dealing with something dead and gone. For
the American School of Drinking is a thing of the past.
   You, perhaps, may reason that it survives in every
other corner of the world save ours, and point trium-
phantly to the unchallengeable fact that the sign, "Amer-
ican Bar," has started more foreigners trying to read
English than all our missionaries and exported Standard
Oil cans, tied together.
   Brother, you are a mere theorist. Practice will make
you a pessimist. If you think otherwise, be your own
tester. Take a steamer for Shanghai, or Yokohama, or
Singapore, or Bombay, or Cairo, taste what comes when
you order, and find yourself gazing at the hole of a
doughnut.
   Faint traces still exist, it is true, of that once potent
school of bibulous instruction that in its day and in its
own peculiar way influenced more thought than the cis-
soid of Diodes, or the screw of Archimedes, rivaled the
reputation of Socrates for making the worse appear the
 better reason, and ta.ogled up ~million times more brains
 than have ever tried to make out what Einstein has been
 driving at. You may be so lucky as to find those reminders
                           ['6]
                                 What and Wherefore
in certain seductive spots where the sophisticated regu-
larly dig themselves in when abroad. But in any of them
demand of the bartender, for example, that succulent
conception of an American scholar-or barman-of the
late nineties, a "Baby Ti tty," and see what you will get.
   Chances are, if 1 he doesn't hand you out something
that is a libel on a much-prized concoction among certain
connoisseurs when still existed an American School of
Drinking, functioning, in the fashion of that time, on
four cylinders-not sixteen-he'll tell you that the ladies
who sit for company are in the back room; or, if your
address book has led you to the Rue Cambon, you may
be directed to the crowded little cav~rn across the hall,
the favorite Paris dugout of sixty-year-old flappers. And
what chance is there for getting what you want- I mean,
provided you know what you asked for and won't put
up with any sort of substitute, even of authenticated
vintage?
  And yet a "Baby Ti tty," as taught in the great Amer-
ican School of Drinking, whatever the illusions it caused,
contained no more of allusion or suggestion than was
supplied by its name-and probably its appearance. It
was composed of equal parts of Anisette, Creme Yvette
and Whipped Cream, topped with a red Cherry.
                                     '           .
           OTHER "AMERICAN SCHOOLS"

Certain ancient capitals, particularly Athens and Rome,
contain what are called "American Schools," usually ad-
dicted to the pursuit of art or archaeology. Some of our
more ambitious painters and sculptors would have us
believe that in this country has grown up an American
                           [7]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
School of painting, or of sculpture. They may be right.
And it is a fact that for many years an independent or-
ganization of artists and patrons has been trying to de-
velop at least one such school by letting any person who
thinks he can paint, or model clay, hang the evidence of
his genius, or what not, in a place where a more or less
credulous public will be sure of an opportunity to view it
and perhaps to buy it-provided its creator can raise the
nominal fee demanded for its admission to this vicarious
Hall of Fame.
   I have never heard of an American School of Drink-
ing-under that name. And yet there is ample proof that
such did once exist. Were the evidence of my own eyes
and recollection lacking, excavations made and exhuma-
tions resulting during the last days of a long-famous
hotel, and subsequent to the demolition of that-in our
way of counting time-venerable institution, offer abun-
dant proof. As a matter of fact, as I begin this, workmen
are carting away the wreckage of what was a famous
temple of Bacchus, long known wherever the name
"American" conjured, for the thirsty wanderer, a vision
of something yellowish or amber or of ruby red in a small
but generously brimmed glass. Swallowed at a gulp, that
lusty and sometimes uproarious content awakened ap-
petite for company of its own kind, until the experi-
menter could cry,. "Hold, enough!" but never did. If he
cried at all, his lament was apt to be, "I can't hold
enough!"
                  GLORY THAT W A S

Only a little more than a dozen years have rollicked by
in more or less arid succession since the American School
                          [ 8)
                                 What and Wherefore
 of Drinking ceased to exist. In this connection I give no
 impure consideration to the dispensations of Mr. Grover
 Whalen's estimated thirty thousand under-cover oases in
 New York. Of the only speakeasy I ever visited, I have
 lost the address. I have to go to Europe or Havana for
 mine, or trust, upon an occasional visit to Miami, that
 something has come ashore. The greatest exponent of
 the American School of Drinking is now in the same class
 with the ruins of ancient Athens and Rome; and now
 that voracious steam shovels have done their dirty work,
 searchers for the material remnants of its main audience
 hall, if not its administration building, must dig among
 city dumps or swamp fills, the latter, after the present
 water dries out, probably t? be reliquidated into real
 estate developments to supply homes for the more or
less homeless who have begun to crowd the thirty-fifth
floors and penthouses of Manhattan Island. Or, one has
a choice of hiring a steam dredge and plumbing that part
of the Atlantic where, so press releases say, is n~w the
graveyard of at least part of what was once the most
famous establishment of its kind, bar none.
   You have guessed. Knowing me or not, you suspect I
am going to dig up the now defunct and vanished Wal-
dorf. For, whether you had learned to drink .as far back
as twenty, or even thirty years ago, if you knew your
Fifth Avenue and your caviar, or where to get a free
lunch that would otherwise cost you two dollars-and by
the expenditure of a mere quarter for a drink-you would
know that when I speak of the greatest and most famous
exponent of the American School of Drinking, I can
mean no other place than, the old Waldorf Bar.
                           [9]
      Old Waldorf Bar Day s
    Well, it's gone. As a matter of fact, it went out of the
back door of the hotel when prohibition came in the
front. And despite the booze subsequently lugged in
sui teases in to the hotel by gouty but valorous Old Guards-
men, by visiting Chicago aldermen, on one of their
periodical sprees, by the Sons of Something or Other,
and by the thousand or so banqueteering organizations
that made steady customers for its grand ball room and
smaller rooms up to the last, and which annually would
have stocked a freight train with empties, that quantity
was no measure for what was annually consumed on the
premises during the quarter-century before the lid went
on, or the cork went in, or the bottle was smashed, ac-
cording to the way you did your little Volstead Act. And
in those days, the ambulance cases that were driven to
Bellev ue Hospital, head-first, from the side door in the
Astor Court, were not taken to the ward for the
poisoned.
    Well, the bar, as such, disappeared more than ten
years ago, as noted. The famous bar counter, on which
empty "schooners" often grounded, if one may revert to
a once much-favored form of bon mot, was soon afterward
cast out, and the nearest approach to evidence I can ob-
tain as to its survival to this day is the information that
it still serves a mission in some speakeasy in Hester
Street. But the cock-eyed individual who handed me the
tip as a price for mr silence, did not have the grace to
l?lip me its number.
    And now for a dash of history to make oblivion of re-
gret. Dashes sometimes had' that effect, if numerous and
of one potent liquid hereinafter to be discussed.
                           [10]
                        PART II

             Many Schools in Ohe
N     OT FAR from    the spot where the Indian chief who
       sold Henry Hudson the Island of Manhattan
coined the expression, "Here's how!" when he tackled the
bottle of rum that the crafty Britisher-temporarily a
Dutchman-threw after his twenty-four dollars to bind
the bargain; not far from that spirituous spot, in later
years, arose a mighty hotel. In one of its great halls, dis-
ciples, if not descendants, of the noble red man were wont
to assemble every afternoon, and to preface, as well as con-
clude, with his utterance on that merporable occasion,
deals which caused the original New York real estate
speculation to dwindle to the proportions of a fly-speck.
   What some of those men did, under the influence of a
just-ended session of the Stock Exchange, of the news-
ticker that kept discharging its tape into a waste-basket,
and possibly-and probably--of what was dispensed in
that hall by a dozen talented bartenders, helped make
American history. Men staked fortunes there; they
formed pools; th.~ y plotted to corner markets. For years
                           [II)
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
 the names of certain of them made the first page of the
newspapers almost every day. They were, in their way,
giants, and they took their ease in a Gargantuan way.
   Such of their performances as were worth while from
an historical standpoint have been recorded in books,
and are now no concern of mine. My interest lies in what
they drank. For, whatever his other purposes, a man
almost invariably did at least one thing when he entered
the Waldorf Bar: he drank. More often than not it might
be said, "Good God, how he drank!" And sometimes,
"And what!"
   Many of that noble army of gallant drinkers I knew
by name; many others I knew by sight. The majority
have gone. The great hall where they guzzled every day,
some of them for more than twenty years, ceased to func-
tion one dark day in January, 1920. Only the name of
the Waldorf Bar survives. That, and its traditions. But
while the light holds, let me try to recreate it, and to
limn the shapes of some of those who went surging in
and out, while, above the roar of conversation and the
chatter of the ticker, the air was rent with calls of "Same
here!" and "Here's how!"
   On the walls are a few paintings-expensive-looking.
Here and there is a piece of massive, if not always orna-
mental, statuary. In one corner stands a great rectangu-
lar counter, behind which a dozen men in white coats are
busy all afternoon and eyening ministering to an endless
array of thirsts. In the center of the space the bar en-
closes is a high refrigerator table, its top graced by the
figures of a bull and a bear, between which is a tiny lamb,
all in bronze. Between the two emblems of Wall Street
                          [ I 2] _
                                Many Schools in One
  and the lamb are vases of flowers. The significance of
  the ornamentation will be expl ain ed further on. There is
  no time now.
    The crowd surges in. Everyone struggles to get a foot-
  hold on a brass rail that runs around the bottom of the
  bar. Sometimes the gang is ten deep, all pressing toward
  that common goal. On every face is written strong re-
 solve. Each man pushes forward until some drinker who
 has been monopolizing a coveted spot falls or otherwise
 gives way; and then, with something like a shout, the
 late-comer, if he is a good squirmer or ducker, wiggles
 into the place thus vacated, stepping, perhaps, over a
 prostrate body, to claim the drink 'he yelled for while
 still a Sheridan's ride away.
    "Ad astra" was the motto of the crowd. If it wasn't
 Martel's Three Stars or Hennessy's Five, it was a cock-
 tail or a highball. The fancier drinks came later in the
day.
    It should be stressed that the scene described was
typical only of hours when the room was overcrowded,
as it frequently was toward six o'clock of an afternoon,
when men would come in who acted as if they had on:ly
one aim in life, and that was to get outside of a drink,
and with no delay. Frequently, as intimated, their chances
improved when some "tank" at the barside had filled to
overflowing and had to be either carried or led away.
    But, be it also emphasized, that Bar was not regarded
as a place of "ill-repute." In its early days, particularly,
men of the highest reputation frequented it; some never
went from their offices downtown to their homes with-
out calling in for at least an appetizer-or something to
                           ( IJ)
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
make them forget the worry or turmoil of the d ay's
work. There were no screened doors. Anybody could
look in, and most every man who entered the Waldorf in
those days did look, at least once. It was known all over
the country; in mining camps from Mexico to Alaska,
it evoked recollections of tastes and odors tha t parched
many a throat. As a matter of fact, its fame was world-
wide.

         MECCA OF THE THIRSTY PILGRIM

Visitors to the Old Waldorf during its latter days found
difficulty, did they seek to recreate the pictu~e of that
great hall where Bacchus so long drew his greatest throngs
of pilgrims and devotees, and where such, in turn, drew
inspiration of the widest variety boasted by the elective
courses offered by the American School of Drinking.
Here was long a sort of fountain head. Here, cleverly
conceived by masters and put together by experts skilled
to such a degree that with eye or a deft motion of a
bottle they could gauge the flow of an alcoholic liquid to
the fraction of a drop, new drinks were composed, tested,
and then offered to tickle jaded palates, or to relieve
headaches and other aftermaths of excessive inebriation
that had sought relief elsewhere in vain. Not along the
whole length of Broadway, from the Battery to the north-
ernmost goat-grazed Harlem cliff, could one pounce upon
a pick-me-up of such potency a~ members o'f its faculty
could deliver, and often did, to the student who was
ready to fall at their feet and drink. That pick-me-up,
research reveals, consisted of "two dashes of acid or
lemon phosphate, one-half a'jigger of Italian Vermuth,
                          [14]
                               Many Sclzools in One
 one-half of Absinthe, shake and strain." The "shake"
 was a direction, and so was the "strain." But once the
 student had swallowed his lesson, he would find himself
 able to stand up and order a real drink.
    Now where has that pick-me-up gone? Why, not only
 is the Vermuth proscribed, but Absinthe has been illegal
 for many years; and who the dickens remembers what a
 "jigger" was? A word of similar sound still survives in
 territory contiguous to wild blackberry or huckleberry
patches down South, but-I speak from personal experi-
ence-it means something quite differe~t from the mod-
est containers that were used in bars for the measurement
of certain liquors, when prescriptions-then known as
recipes-were to be carefully compo'unded. And no doctor
wrote those recipes.                             ,
    To revert to the difficulty of reconstructing the Bar-
room in later years, a humidor had been built on the
spot mostly occupied by the great bar counter, and ex-
tanks who came and looked through a once popular door:..
way often could not remember which was the proper
direction to cast their sighs of regret. The back entrance
from the lobby-past the telephone switchboard-with
its inviting facilities for gentlemen whose capacity had
been stretched, had been closed, and here young women
armed with pencils and typewriters were taking dictation
from industrial, financial, railway and legal magnates,
so classed. Across the room and against a partition were
desks for various managerial heads and factotums. And
when one's eye reached that partition they had embraced
only half of the room where for decades thirsty disciples
had learned or libationed from eight in the morning until
                          [ I 5)
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
closing time. The second part of the great oak-wain-
scoted hall had been converted into a bus station, and
there one bought tickets for Montclair, the Oranges, and
other points in New Jersey, or else for New Haven and
other way stations to Boston.


       LABORATORY OF BACCHIC ENDEAVOR

Some of the decorations of the temple remained. For
example, two great Egyptian-like bronze figures still
stood one on either side of the private entrance to the
Jade Room, which did not look like a door at all until
you found the handle-not easy for one who had lingered
over his liquor. Then there was still one picture, "The
Ballet Dancer," which in that long-past age referred to
probably inspired more toasts than any other single
painting in the world; which turned more men in the
direction of art-connoisseuring than any other example
of high art known, and whose legs and lingerie caused
far more comment and centered more scrutiny than all
the cigarette pictures of stage favorites in tights that
used to help sell "coffin nails," as they were termed,
during the days when "The Ballet Dancer's" reign was
being established. On the opposite wall hung the big copy
of Paolo Veronese's "Wedding at Cana, in Galilee," for
the delectation of those whom liquor puts or leaves in an
attitude proper for the cop.templation of religious sub-
jects. High above the paneling still hung some of the
elks' heads with which the late George C. Boldt adorned
the place, now, in the old hotegs last stages, looking
moth-eaten, if not somewhat unsanitary.
                         [16)
                              Many Schools in One
   But when that laboratory of Bacchic endeavor was in
its heyday, students came from far and wide-from all
corners of the globe. They flocked about the rectangular
 Bar counter and drank deeply of what was good stuff, if
not wisdom. As soon as the first bartender appeared in
 the morning, before even arranging the multitude of
glasses of various sizes and shapes on the "high altar"
 that took up the central space of the rectangle, he must
satisfy the demands of at least half a dozen accumulated
patrons, either for breakfast appetizers or for something
to take away what was left of the jag of the night before.
From five o'clock in the evening until eight, the room
was jammed at its tables and at its' counter, and late-
comers, whose "innards" were sending out an S.O.S.,
found themselves impeded in their progress toward satis-
faction by S.R.O. conditions. In order to reach that bar,
men struggled and pushed and sometimes exchanged
blows.
   During those three hours named, the Waldorf Bar was
Wall Street moved bodily uptown for an adjourned ses-
sion of the Stock Exchange, with men betting on how
stocks would perform the next day. In ~i:ie discreet cpr-
ner a ticker kept clicking off news. Here market pools
were often formed. Here were to be found men who were
willing to bet on anything, and to any amount. Financiers
and market operators, with names that gained newspaper
front pages every day or so, clustered about the tables,
or joined in the maggot-like surge that squirmed for a
foothold on the substantial brass tradition that ran along
the bottom of the counter. Some who once gained such a
post of vantage never left until the Bar closed.
                          [ 17]
      Old Waldotf Bar Days
            INSPIRATIONAL COMPOSITION
                  AND FREE LUNCH
The like of the rectangular counter that graced the room,
and what happened behind it, and before it, and passed
over it, may never again be seen in this country-at
least in our time. Many forms of beverage dated their
origin to the inspiration of some clever Waldorf bar-
tender. Or, perhaps, it was a translation of the passing
fancy of a patron who wanted something different to
drink, and entirely of his own conception. If the result
met his expectations, he might thereafter call only for
his own cocktail, or whatever it was, and the bartender,
out of compliment, would christen the new drink after
its godfather.
   A school of drinking, and a distinctive one, the Wal-
dorf's Bar undoubtedly was. And-which may surprise
many-it was a real school of art-a school in which
more than one connoisseur who has since spent hundreds
of thousands in collecting paintings and sculpture got
his first tuition from the pictures on the Bar walls, whose
appeal was often emphasized by the cumulative influence
of cocktails or highballs.
   More than one middle-aged American who has sur-
vived into the era that has seen bootlegging grow into
one of our most important industries, has reason to re-
member gratefully at least one feature of this particular
American School of Drinking, and in which, perhaps, it
was preeminent among institutions of similar learning.
This was the free lunch table. There are many rich men
in this land to-day, who, were they frank, could date
their first acquaintance with Russian caviar to that gen-
                          [ I   8.]
                               Many Schools in One
 erous board. There, too, many of them first learned of
 the superb succulence of Virginia "vintage" ham. As a
 matter of fact, the exoteric could there give the "once-
 over" to delicacies they had never before seen-or even
 imagined. No menu in puzzling French to mystify or
 confuse. The uninitiate saw what he saw, and what he
 fancied he could sample at his leisure. And spread out
 for his delectation-for he was free to choose, and to
 wha~ever extent-were light and savory canapes, thirst-
 provoking anchovies in various-tinted guises, and other
 delicacies; and there were substantial slices of beef or
 ham, ordinary as well as Virginia, and a wonderful as-
 sortment of cheeses of robust 'odors; not forgetting the
 crisp radishes and sprightly, delicate spring onions, and
 olives stuffed and unstuffed.
· The temporary addicts of the lunch table were never
 disturbed, or rarely. Their meal ticket depended merely
 upon good conduct-supported, of course, by a good
 front. The occasional investment of a quarter in a bottle
 of beer-not necessarily spent before an attack upon the
 lunch table-served to keep them in good standing. By
 such an outlay as little as three ,times a week, a man
 could eat daily from that hospitable offering a luncheon
 that, served in one of the hotel's restaurants, would have
 set him back a good two dollars-and get away with it.
 And many so did.
   The free lunch grew to be a part of every branch of
 the American School of Drinking. The table in the Wal-
 dorf Bar cost the hotel more than seventy-five hundred
 dollars a year. It proved excellent advertisement, for no
 inconsiderable slice of the hotel's profits came from the
                           [ 19]
      Old Waldorf B ar Days
sale of wines and liquors. And the Waldorf Bar had its
imitators all over the land. Its free lunch t ably came to
be a standard that many another establishment en-
deavored to equal.
   Now the American School of Drinking has gone. It
was real. It was distinctive. It was influential; indeed,
dominating. And to-day, nowhere can we look upon its
like. When we try to find it abroad, we discover only its
influence, weakened by time, transplantatior{ and imi-
tation.
   At home we look about us. What has taken its place?
The drug store soda counter?
   Stop, look, and listen.
   At first glance you might think this popular institution
an inheritance from a glorious, if bibulous, past. But
scrutinize it. Boys and girls, and men and women, sipping
soda fizzes and coca cola, or sopping up sundaes!
   "But," you say, "look, they are eating! Does not that
remind one of the free lunch counter?"
   Decidedly, no! Nothing is free except a glass of ice
water. And what you pay for in the way of food over
that counter is far away from and behind what you
could get free, without even asking for it, in the old
Waldorf Bar. In that haven of the hungry and the
thirsty, what you got without cost was always good and
digestible. Could the same be said of the attack the drug
store lunch counter is maki.og upon the great American
stomach?
   No. The American School of Drinking has gone !



                          [ 20]
                        PART III

                   H aU of Fame
                                       I


A    TRADITION, established by the old melodrama, Ten
      Nights in a Barroom, since strengthened by much
pulpit and other oratory, and aided and abetted by Con-
gressional eloquence-not infrequently belched from
"moist" throats for the satisfaction of the ears of ballot- , ,
boxes in parched regions-maintains that a barroom was
a vile place. No man of any self-respect would venture
thereinto, in broad daylight, without looking to right or
left to make sure that nobody whose good opinion he
valued was in sight. One is quoting a tradition.
   Entrance to such a "gin mill" was gained through a
pair of shutters, or by passing to one side of a shuttered
screen. Loitering in the offing were shabby women and
hungry children, aware that Father was inside, squan-
dering in drink the money that should provide them
with food and clothes. Finally, after their hours of vigil,
Father would stagger out-or be thrown out. A timid
wife would tearfully approach and beseech him to regard
                           [ 21]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
 his starving offspring. Father, his senses dulled from
 hours of steady absorption of "gin," would strike out
 blindly at some elephant or camel-or maybe it was an
 alligator or a hippopotamus-that had become outlined
 in the haze about him. A scream: "You have killed our
 child!" And over the prostrate body of the little one, a
drunkard, if not too late, would take an oath and become
 a reformed man. Or if it was too late, he would drink and
drink, and sink and sink, until he went to fill a grave in
some Potter's Field.
    Often, it must be admitted, there was a good deal of
truth in the picture. The author makes no effort to mini-
mize the harm done by the common saloon. But this
treatise, or whatever it is properly called, does not con-
cern the ordinary saloon. Nor, being more or less of an
historical nature, will it attempt to gloss over certain
stark and terrible truths that used to be common
property.
    But, beitrepeated, one is not dealing with a common
saloon, or any "saloon"-so-called. This is not an essay
on prohibition. It deals with a unique institution; one
not supposed to be patronized by heads of families who
were unable properly to feed and clothe their dependents.
One says "supposed" advisedly. The great majority of
its patrons were men of means. Most of its customers
resorted to it openly. They made no secret of their patron-
age. Some rather plumed themselves on being seen there.
It gave them opportunity for mingling with the notabil-
ities of the time-or at least, for herding with them.
    Service was rendered with a distinction many estab-
lishments of a similar nature lacked. For example, in its
                          [ 22]
                                        Hall of Fame
early days, a small, snowy napkin went with each drink,
enabling a patron to remove certain traces from his mus-
tache or his whiskers-heavy mustaches and whiskers
were abundant-without toting home odors in his hip
pocket, or wherever he carried his handkerchief. And
while questions were not usually asked, men who bought
drinks were supposed to be able to freight them away
in tact, and not to spill them, or to show other effects than
a certain mellowness and good fellowship-though per-
haps fluency in argument or reminiscence might be for-
given one who was standing treat. In brief, a gentleman
was supposed to be larger than what he drank. The
theory of the proprietor of the establishment was that
all his patrons were gentlemen. Atid the theory was good,
even if it didn't always work out in practice. The law
was the law, and it was strictly obeyed in that Bar. If,
nowadays, certain laws seem to be "all wet" when it
comes to their observance-well, that is another matter.
   The actual bar itself, a large, rectangular counter at the
northeast corner of the room, as noted, had a brass rail
running all around its foot. In its center was a long re-
frigerator topped by a snowy cloth and orderly arrange-
ments of drinking glasses. At one end of this cover. stood
a good-sized bronze bear, looking as i'f it meant bu~·iness;
at the other end, a rampant bull. Midway between.them
was placed a tiny lamb, flanked on either side by a tall
vase of flowers. The whole decoration was a more or less
delicate compliment to the heaviest patronage of the
room at cocktail-time, wags claiming that the flowers
were all the lamb-the innocent public-got after Wall
Street's bulls and bears had finished with him.
                           [ 23]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
         MR. MORGAN'S DAILY M A NH A TTAN
To name the important figures that were to be seen at
various times in that Barroom during its first fifteen or
twenty years would be like setting down most of the names
from various editions of Who's Who in America-ex-
cepting, of course, always preachers-and including a
good-sized list taken from the British Who's Who and
the Almanach de Gotha. Later, the place lost m any of
the head-liners that during its early years helped win it
distinction. And from the first, one should stress that
not every visitor to the Bar "crooked his elbow." The
room was one of the real sights of New York.
    Perhaps, its most famous patron during its first decade
was the late J. Pierpont Morgan, the grea t financier.
Morgan had started patronizing the old Cafe-the sit-
down Bar that was the predecessor of the Bar that be-
came famous. For some years after the new place with
the brass rail was opened, he continued to call almost
daily. But he seldom lingered. H is h abit was to come in
after the close of the M arket down town and h ave
Johnnie Solon, whose role will command later exposition,
compose a Manhattan cocktail for him.
   Two of the early frequenters of the Waldorf Bar, when
it was in its chrysalitic, or "sit-down" stage, were William
R. Travers, a well-known N ew York fin ancier, and his
close friend "Larry" (Lawrence) Jerome, a stock-broker
in the days of the Jay; Gould influence in Wall Street.
Larry Jerome was famous in his generation as a wit. His
son, William Travers Jerome, n am ed after his bosom
fri end, through his big fight against Tammany H all and
his prosecution of the Thaw case, was to m ake the Dis-
                          [ 24).
                                       Hall of Fame
  trict Attorneyship of New York City an office of nation-
  wide importance. Larry Jerome's niece, Jennie Jerome,
  had married Lord Randolph Churchill and had become
  a great favorite in London society. Her son, Winston,
  has been in the British public eye as continuously as
  any other statesman during the last twenty-five years:
    The elder Jerome's bon mots were as much quoted by
 New Yorkers in the Eighties and Nineties as Irvin Cobb's
 stories, "Odd" Mcintyre's and Walter Winchell's wise-
 cracks, and the gossip in the New Yorker are retold to-
 day. Sometimes those sayings of Jerome's were not es-
 sentially humorous, for his reputation as a wag was
 helped by a stutter that tended to make anything he
 said sound funny. One story, often credited elsewhere,
 originated with him.
   _He was riding up Fifth Avenue in a crowded bus,
which kept bounding from cobblestone to cobblestone
in the fashion Fifth Avenue buses frequently affected, in
the wake of trotting horses. In order to make room for
another passenger, he made his little son sit upon his lap.
When the bus stopped at the next corner, in came a
beautiful young woman.
   "G-g-get up, m-m-my s-s-son, .and g-g-g-gi-ve the
y-y-young I-I-lady your s-s-seat," said the elder Jerome.
                 *      *       *       *
   In the days before he was made Chairman of the
Board of the newly formed United States Steel Corpo-
ration, and thus elevated to what was long perhaps the
most commanding position in the ind us trial world, Judge
Elbert H. Gary was often seen in the Bar. Later on, the
prominence of his job and its dignity may have had effect
      Old Waldotf Bar Days
in inducing Judge Gary to keep himself aloof from a
spot where he might become the prey of too many per-
sons with questions to ask, or favors to seek. Judge Gary
was one of the biggest buyers of wine-particularly
champagne-that the hotel ever numbered among its
customers, but most of it was not served in the Bar.
Later on, he developed into an ardent supporter of pro-
hibition-for the working man.
                 Two-TIME WARWICK
Two men who occasionally sat at a table in a remote
corner were very much in the public eye during the late
nineties, and one for years later. The big man in the
baggy, homespun suit, during McKinley's last presi-
dential campaign, figured more extensively in the news,
the editorials and the cartoons, than did the candidate
himself. He was Senator Marcus Alonzo Hanna-not
"Marcus Antonius" or "Marcus Aurelius," as some re-
porters used to write his name. However, it was usually
abbreviated to "Mark A. Hanna."
  Hanna was a merchant, iron-master and ship-owner
of Cleveland, who, in I 896, had taken under his wing
William McKinley, father of a famous tariff bill, and by
applying the principles of "big business" to a political
campaign, twice made him President of the United
States. Often seen with Hanna, in the early days, ac-
cording to a surviving barman, was the Vice-President of
the United States. It was n"ot an un~ommon practice in
those days for a Vice-President of the United States to
take a drink and admit it. Senator Hanna was very
temperate. His son, Dan, was a more frequent patron
of the Bar for many years.
                         [ 26]
                                        Hall of Fame
    Almost anybody familiar with newspaper pictures
  would recognize the face of at least one of two white-
  mustached men who, on rare occasions, might be seen
  there, in company. He was no less a personage than
  Mark Twain, the humorist; and yes, that extremely well
  groomed man with him was H. H. Rogers, of the Stand-
  ard Oil Company, who became, in the humorist's later
  years, perhaps his closest intimate. Perhaps they had just
 stopped in to "pass the time of day" with a friend or two.
    Over there at the bar-side might be pointed out Peter
 Fenelon Collier, an Irishman, who, coming to America
 poor many years before, had founded a great publishing
 house and a magazine, and had bohght himself a big
 castle in his native country. His son and successor,
 Robert Collier, was frequently seen in that room.
    Before he became Vice-President of the United States,
 United States Senator Charles Warren Fairbanks, of In-
 diana, was occasionally discovered among the crowd of
 notabilities in the Bar. Senator Fairbanks, while perhaps
 not what might be described as picturesque, invariably
 attracted attention wherever he appeared, even in a
 crowd which was apt to contain so many, individualistic
 and striking, or decorative varieties of men or costume.
A tall, thin man he was, with curious chin-whiskers and
an expression of supernatural gravity that frequently
led strangers to mistake him for an undertaker. Being so
tall, it is not odd that he should have been ignorant of
what was lying at his feet one night, not in the Bar, but
in Peacock Alley. Evidently, George C. Boldt, the hotel's
proprietor, who was talking with him at the time, had
relaxed his usual vigilance.
                           [ 27]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
   It was about half an hour before midnight. A bellboy,
whose eyes, for once, missed less than those of the pro-
prietor of the hotel, found his gaze stopped by a glitter
coming from a point immediately between the great left
foot of the former Vice-President and the very much
smaller right foot of the hotel man. He went over to
them, stooped and picked up a diamond ring of con-
siderable value. Knowing that Mr. Boldt never wore
diamonds, he asked the Vice-President if the trinket
belonged to him.
             MORALS ABOVE DIAMONDS

Senator Fairbanks looked at the ring, then at the boy,
and then quizzically at Boldt.
   "My morals," he said slowly, "have always been
above such a thing as diamonds."
   Boldt laughed. Always ready to make a good impres-
sion upon distinguished visitors, he then and there gave
the bellboy a liberal reward. The ownership of the ring
was traced to the late Governor Frank Brown, of Mary-
land, who was stopping in the hotel, and from him the
boy collected another and more substantial reward.
Governor Brown was long a good customer of the Bar.
                 *      *           *   *
   In that room a good roster of the most prominent
statesmen and politicians of twenty-five to thirty years
ago might have been checked off; and some who still
rate as politicians and statesmen. of wide renown, if they
did not sit at the feet Of their tutors when in that room,
took counsel of them in the Men's Cafe, across the cor-
ridor. But in recollection, one cannot stop to assign faces
to a particular period. There is too nearly a sea of them.
                            [ 28]
                                        Hall of Fame
 However, coming down through the ages, as it were-
 that is to say, from 1897 to the early days of the war-
 Iet us follow Time's spotlight as it focused here or there.
    The Congressmen who used to find the way to it when
 they came over to New York were almost too numerous
 to mention. Here are just a few senators-some seen
 rarely, some often in the crowd, and most of them dating
 years back. For example: Edward 0. Wolcott, of Colo-
 rado, known to be a good patron of Canfield's exclusive
 gambling establishment in Forty-fourth Street; the aris-
 tocratic George Peabody Wetmore, of Rhode Island; the
 astute John Coit Spooner, of Wisconsin~ one of the ablest
 of conservative republican leaders, and recognized as one
of the spokesmen for both the McKinley and Roosevelt
 administrations; Joseph Roswell Hawley, of Connecticut,
 Ciyil War veteran, editor and member, in turn, of the
House of Representatives and of the Senate almost con-
tinuously for more than thirty-five years. Senator Haw-
ley should be canonized by authors as one of the original
advocates of International Copyright.
   Senator Matthew Stanley Quay, who, as republican
boss of Pennsylvania, ruled politics in that State with an
iron hand, in contrast with the method ·o f Senator "Tom"
Platt, the "Easy Boss" of New York State, dropped in
at rare intervals, in the early days. His long-time lieu-
tenant and the inheritor of his power, Senator Boise A.
Penrose, was a far better patron of the Bar. He was a
frequent visitor to the Waldorf. Often he preferred to
drink in isolation. He was what was called in those days
a "Ione drinker," needing no other company than a bottle
and a glass and his own thoughts. This same exclusive-
                           [ 29]
          Old Waldorf Bar Days
     ness applied to many of his meals. He often ate in the
     Men's Cafe, across the corridor. To attendants he main-
     tained an attitude of intolerance. If he was in a bad
     humor-a not infrequent condition-the waiter who
    served him must leave the food on the table, and im-
    mediately move away. Penrose would not touch food as
    long as the waiter hovered about.
       Here might be mentioned General Benjamin F. Tracy,
    who, after serving as Secretary of Navy in President
    Harrison's Cabinet, resumed a successful law practice in
    New York. A man of vigorous health and personality
    was General Tracy, and distinguished-looking as well.
    At the age of eighty-three, he was still arguing cases,
    appearing before the United States Supreme Court for
    that purpose.
       Senator Stephen B. Elkins of West Virginia was some-
    times numbered in the crowd, but not often. His sons,
    "Dave'',-who followed in father's footsteps and, after
    an interval, succeeded to his seat in the Senate-and
    "Steve", proved more ardent customers. Their grand-
    father, Senator Gassaway Davis, of West Virginia, was
    an occasional visitor during the early days of the Bar.
       Lieutenant General Nelson A. Miles, U.S.A., always
    a heroic figure, even when out of uniform, headed the
    roster of army men who occasionally came in to satisfy a
    thirst; and the United States Navy was more than once
    ably represented by Rear Admiral "Bob" Evans. Of
    course, Evans wasn't the whole N avy, and he was by no
    means the only member of our maritime arm of defense
    who graced the place during its history. R emember, one
    is speaking of the N avy.
•
                                        Hall of Fame
      Almost every railroad man of prominence, in those
   early days, could be discovered in the Bar at some time
   or other. One recalls, particularly, Melville E. Ingalls,
   head of the Big Four, and Oscar G. Murray, President
   of the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad. Murray was a regular
   patron when in town, but he would never permit a
   waiter to take his order, and he would let only one bar-
   tender mix his drinks-that is, after he came to know
  Johnnie Solon. Murray would seldom approach the bar-
  side, but when he sat down at the table and a waiter ap-
  peared, he would say, "Johnnie's got my order." By this
  time, Solon, having seen his particular patron enter the
  room, would be busy composing a Bronx cocktail. How-
  ever, Murray had individual service. Instead of taking
  his drink from a cocktail glass, it would be served in a
  sherry glass, and the latter would be just half-full.
     The black slouch hat of Colonel Henry Watterson,
 editor of the famous Louisville Courier Journal, and his
 gray mustache and goatee were not unknown in that
 room, nor were the "square-top" derby and generous fea-
 tures of Colonel William Nelson, proprietor of the Kan-
 sas City Star.                                     ~
    The newspaper world was also represented from time
 to time by many other distinguished'journalistic Hghts.
When the Associated Press and the American Newspaper
Publishers were holding their annual meetings, the ;~om
would be packed with editors and publishers from all
over the country. One often saw at other ~imes, Thomas
B. Wanamaker, son of a famous merchant, and himself
owner of the Philadelphia North American, while Colonel
James Elverson, Jr., who later succeeded his father as
                           [31]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
publisher of the Philadelphia Inquirer, would drop in
during his frequent New York sojourns.
    Occasionally in the throng of long ago might be seen
Richard Harding Davis, the author, who, starting his
career as a newspaper reporter, became so successful as a
fiction writer and novelist, that heaven knows how many
cub reporters of the period were impelled to emulate his
example! Davis' manner, partly acquired from familiar-
ity with London drawing-rooms and contacts with many
socially prominent as well as intelligent people in many
parts of the world, stamped him to many as a snob.
Knowing him well over a period of years, and now con-
fessing to have been among the cubs eager to follow in
his footsteps, I may mention that this was a sensitive
point with him. Particularly did it distress him that
many newspaper reporters looked askance at him. He
himself was disposed to be helpful to any newspaperman
to whom he thought he could do a favor. And if he saw in
a newspaper a stor y that struck him as particularly good,
he made a practice of writing to the editor and saying so.
    Davis sometimes did curious things. He was romantic.
Once he and the young woman he was courting were an
ocean and more apart, and what did he do but send a
messenger boy from one side of the Atlantic to the
other- in fact, all the way from London to Chicago-
with a message, or package, for her!'That was back in
 I 899. The boy, a lad by the name of Thomas Jaggers,
 was taken up when he arrived here, entertained, and
 showered with a publicity that mus't have proved startling
 to him, and back in London. And possibly Davis's books
 did not lose in sale on account of.the roman tic errand.
                          [32]
                                      Hall of Fame
           AND "THE DRUNK" CAME IN

 A frequent visitor in the early days was John R. Drexel,
 member of a prominent Philadelphia family, who for
 many years has made his home abroad. He had a brother,
 Anthony, who became a resident of England in the days
 when few Americans were persuaded that the social ad-
 vantages of the "tight little island" outweighed its cli-
 matic disadvantages. For a time "Tony" was better
 known than his brother John, enjoying the reputation of
 being a sort of "pal" of the then Prince .of Wales, later
 King Edward VII, who was frequently entertained on
Anthony's steam yacht Margarita.
   John R. Drexel used to come ov~r to New York fre-
quently to attend the opera and other "functions" in
whicti society was interested. In time he found his ap-
pearance in the Bar was apt to draw undesirable atten-
tion from persons who, in their cups, wanted to tell him ,
 the story of their lives or, perhaps, borrow money. Dur-
ing one of his early visits occurred an incident that
was probably responsible for a line that more than one
vaudeville artist later used to his profit.
   Boldt had installed on the various floors of the hotel
young German bus boys-waiters' helpers-whose duty
it was to supply floor service. These youngsters had been
drawn from the crews of German steamers in port. What
they did not know about the English language sometimes
proved considerable.
   Pneumatic tubes had been installed to accelerate mes-
sages between the office and the various floors. All orders
were written, and shot up and down by air pressure.
Clerks in the front office, who must translate the mes-
                          [ 33]
       Old Waldotf Bar Days
  sages penciled by the German lads, often had their
  own troubles, as the writers were apt to spell English
  much as they spoke it.
     Drexel had come from Philadelphia for an important
  social engagement. To save time, he had brought his
  trunk on his hansom all the way from the station in
  Jersey City. As he registered, he happened to look to-
  ward the door of the Bar. Issuing from it was a New
  Yorker, well known to him, who was a considerable
  rounder and; when in his cups, a great and tenacious
  bore. Drexel ducked for the elevator and convinced him-
  self he had escaped the other's attention. But not so.
     Immediately upon reaching his room, Drexel sum-
  moned a bus boy and told him to notify the office
  that his trunk must be brought up to his room imme-
  diately, as he wished to dress. Simultaneously, however,
  the New Yorker he had sought to avoid, but who had
  spied him, handed in his card downstairs to be sent up
  to the Philadelphian. The bus boy laboriously wrote
  out Drexel's message, but he transcribed it thus:
    "444 (the number of Drexel's room) say send up de
  drunk." This message arrived shortly after the caller's
  card had gone up.
    The puzzled clerk on duty at the tubes downstairs
  scratched his head over it. He showed it to every clerk
  in the office. None had ~ heard about Drexel's trunk.
  The Philadelphian was on good terms with all in the
  front office, and was in the habit of exchanging chaff
- of some of them. In view of tha't fact, the consensus of
  opinion was that the scrawled order referred to the
  caller, and that it was to be taken literally.
                          [34]
                                     Hall of Fame
     The clerk who had sent up the card therefore turned
  to the caller.
     "Mr. Drexel would like to have you come up," he
 said.
    A few moments later, when Drexel shouted "Come!"
 in response to a rap on his door, instead of a trunk
 borne by a husky porter, in staggered the "drunk."
    Herman Oelrichs, agent for a big German steamship
 company, was a good patron' during the first few years
 of the Bar; and William N. Wood, head of the Ameri-
_can Woolen Company, was only one ~fa large number
 of notable industrialists who were often button-holed
 in the place.
    Foxhall Keene, son of James R. Keene, famous mar-
 ket operator and race horse owner, and himself one of
 the foremost American polo players early in the cen-
 tury, would drop in with a number of friends. Clarence
 Mackay at that time was a very popular patron, not
only because of a pleasing personality, but because he
 always gave generous tips. E. Berry Wall, kn_own as
the "King of the Dudes," could sometimes be seen
wiping his long mustache after a lioation at the Bar;
and in contrast with his slender figure the next .man
to him might be the portly Colonel William H. Roe,
manufacturer of woolen goods, but incidentally a con-
noisseur of wines and a big buyer at the bar-side.
    "Joe" Leiter, son of a famous Chicago mercha·n t,
and brother of two beautiful women who married well-
known or titled Englishmen-himself a big speculator
in grain-was to be seen frequently. George A. Huhn,
a banker from Philadelphia, was well known there-
                         [ 35]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
abouts, as was "Tim" Woodruff, some time Lieutenant
Governor of the State of New York. Price McKinney,
of Cleveland, a prominent figure in the steel world, in
the Bar was better known as a racing man. With the
head of a well-known chain-store system, he owned an
important stable, and McKinney, though it was not
current property at the time, was one of a small group
that acquired control of the race track at Juarez, over
the Mexican border from El Paso.
   While Colonel William F. Cody, "Buffalo Bill," clung
to the old Hoffman House as long as his friend, Ed.
Stokes, was its proprietor, he used to drop into the
Waldorf Bar, and there one might discover him at a
table surrounded by a lot of admirers.
   Cody, with his wide-brimmed hat, long mustache and
goatee, and in the old days wearing a Prince Albert
coat, presented a handsome figure and one which eyes
seldom failed to follow.
   Men liked to invite Colonel Cody to "have one" with
them, and it is not on record that he ever refused. In
accepting such an invitation, he followed an invariable
formula.
   "Sir," he would respond heartily, "you speak the
language of my tribe."
   One day some twenty years ago, Colonel Cody was
found sitting on a bench "that used" to stand opposite
 the bill clerk's window. He looked worn out. "Just
 come from Arizona," he said, "and, mind you, after
 that long journey, I can't get a· ·room. And here I've
 been coming to the Waldorf for years. They say the
 hotel's full, and I guess I had better go in and get break-
                           [ 36]
                                       Hall of Fame
fast. But, say, when I found out I couldn't get a room,
it suddenly came to me that I didn't have one single,
clean, boiled shirt in my baggage, and tonight I've got
to go to a dinner where I just must wear a white shirt.
I didn't want to buy a new one. Well, at the desk they
connected me by telephone with the laundry. There
they told me it would take two days. That wouldn't
suit me. So I said to the fellow, 'Look here, I've got to
have a shirt tonight. If I dori't get it, I'll run through
your hotel naked.' And, by George, sir; he promised me
a shirt'.''
          BREAD AND MILK FOR GATES
                                   ,
John W. Gates, of "Betcha-a-million" fame, and his
bosom friend, Colonel "Ike" Ellwood, appeared in the
Bar, occasionally, though Gates' favorite hangout was
the Men's Cafe, across the hall. With them when he
came to New York almost invariably trailed Colonel
John Lambert, sometime warden of Joliet, Ill., peni-
tentiary, but president of the American Steel & Wire
Company at the time of the formation of the Steel
Trust. In the Gates aura, too, one would discover John
A. Drake and the latter's brother-in-law, Theodote P.
Shonts-that was before he was made chairman of the
Panama Canal Commission-and Loyall L. Smith, a
millionaire who had once been a Chicago newsboy. And
while its owner was a strict teetotaler, the moon-face
of Diamond Jim Brady, brass fittings salesman, gor-
mand and dinner party impresario, could be seen cir-
culating among the crowd, as he buttonholed this or
that "Big Feller," the orb illuminated by forty to a
hundred carats of diamonds or emeralds, or sapphires,
                          [37]
       Old Waldorf Bar Days
 or whatnot, that glowed or gleamed from an expansive
 shirt front or a particularly noisy necktie.
   To return to Gates, whatever his associates may have
 been, he was not a hard drinker. When he played, if
 he drank it was in moderation. He had a habit of ap-
 pearing in the Men's Cafe, across from the Bar, about
 midnight and sitting down to a supper composed of
 milk and bread or milk and crackers. Whatever form
of gambling might have been engaging his evening's
attention-whether poker or bridge or baccarat or what
not-he would seldom vary this menu.
   One night, among the crowd which was sitting in the
Cafe, the sole topic of conversation was a report that
that day Gates had cleaned up a "cool million" in the
Stock Market. When he entered ~t his usual hour, a
vociferous greeting met him. His friends, and those who
like to be thought such, jumped up and milled about
him to shake hands and offer congratulations. There
were cries of "Come on, John, have just one drink with
us!" "Say, John, I'll open a magnum, if you will drink
with me!" "Hey, John, I come across some twenty-
year-old Bourbon today! Come on, join us!"-and so
on, ·and so on.
   Gates merely waved the crowd away and sat himself
at a table. Calling for the head waiter, he gave his usual
order for bread and milk.

              GIN RICKEY INVENTED

Some have laid the invention of a beverage which
among two generations has enjoyed wide popularity and
considerable reptite to the \yaldorf Bar. This was the
                         [38]
                                      Hall of Fame
  "Gin Rickey." However, that Bar could justly claim
  no such honor; nor, as a matter of fact, could any spot
 in New York, though the man for whom the drink was
 named was long one of the Bar's most familiar figures.
    Part of posterity has known him as Colonel "Jim"
 Rickey. His name was not Jim, but Joe. Colonel Joe
 Rickey had been a lobbyist in Washington, and as such
 used to buy drinks for members of Congress in the days
 before they had come to depend upon the discreet ac-
 tivities of gentlemen in green hats to keep them wet
 while they voted dry. During a spell of torrid weather,
 the brain of one of the barkeepers at Shoemaker's, a
 famous drinking place, expand~d to such an extent that
 he invented a new drink-by squeezing limes into gin,
 ?-nd hosing the result with a siphon. Colonel Rickey
 was one of his favorite patrons, and as he was the first
 man who happened in after the birth of the concoction,
 the "barkeep" announced to him that he had perfected
what in those days was an equivalent of a "wow," and
would he try it?
    Colonel Rickey was "agreeable." He quickly tossed
off the offering, smacked his lips, announced that it
"hit the spot," and demanded another. Whereupon the
barman denominated the drink the "Gin Rickey:" Sub-
sequent years saw the invention of the "Rye Rickey"
and the "Scotch Rickey."
   Colonel Rickey was said to be the first importer of
limes, in quantity, into this country. His activities in
that direction may have antedated the invention of the
Gin Rickey, as described, or it may have been that the
compliment paid him by the Washington bartender de-
                         [ 39]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
cided him that the importation of a fruit of such po-
tential popularity might prove a profitable occupation.
  In New York, Colonel Rickey's favorite Bar and
lobby had been in the Hoffman House, but he soon
found the Waldorf. In the early days of the brass rail
Bar, his long, gray mustache and black slouch hat
caused him often to be mistaken for Mark Twain. How-
ever, he wore glasses. He would turn up in the Bar at ·
cocktail-time and would help shut it at one o'clock in
the morning. That, however, never meant curfew to
Colonel Joe. He had a lien on the pint of rye, which,
with an equal quantity of Scotch, was cached by the
night manager of the hotel for the salvation of thirsty
patrons of the hotel who would turn up after hours
with news that they simply must have a drink, or die. And
Colonel Joe would see that he got his share of salvation.
   Richard Croker, Tammany leader, and "Charlie"
Murphy, his successor, might be seen at one of the
tables, once in a while, but that Bar was no place for
secrets, and they soon transferred their patronage to a
table in the Men's Cafe.

           WE HAVE WITH Us To-DAY
In that flock of faces that, during the early years of
the century, swarmed thickest toward six o'clock, ap-
peared more than one th~t have since become familiar
throughout the country and wherever illustrated news-
papers are read. Just two may be here noted.
   While it is safe to say Silver Dollar Smith's saloon,
its floor paved with acartwheels," as the dollar silver
coins used to be called because of their size and weight,
                       . [ 40]
                                      Hall of Fame
 was a favorite gathering-place for politicians on the
 East Side; and any place where Big Tim Sullivan, Tam-
 many Boss of the Bowery and the area contiguous,
 planted his "number nines" was good enough, as a rule,
 for anybody with political ambitions and of the same
 political faith, still nobody who kept needing bigger po-
litical B. V. D.'s was apt to limit himself to association
 with the neighbors in his precinct or Assembly District.
As his horizon broadened and his contacts increased,
 he would be sure to discover, first, the Hoffman House,
whose bar was a great loafing place for Democrats, and
 then the newer and more fashionable Waldorf. Big Tim
himself was occasionally seen I
                                 in the Waldorf Bar, but
Big Tim long ago went on, and these two, particularly,
who used to appear there occasionally, are still alive and
apparently going very strong.
   At one corner of the bar counter was observed, one
afternoon many years ago, an extremely youthful, slen-
der, and particularly dapper young man, whose clothes
were cut in a fashionable mode, with some of those im-
provements Broadway has been known to add to the
men's fashions of the hour. Every time the young gen-
tleman would speak half a dozen men about him would
roar heartily.
   "Who is it?" one asked.
   "Why, that's 'Jimmie' Walker. Everybody knows
Jimmie. He's up at Albany, you know. They say Boss
Murphy thinks he's a coming man and will go far. Why,
you ought to know about Jimmie Walker. Haven't you
heard that song, 'Will You Love Me in December as You
Do in May?' Jimmie wrote it. TheysayTinPanAlleycame
                          [41]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
near getting him, but Tammany needed him too much."
  The Waldorf, however, was not Jimmie Walker's fa_
vorite place of refreshment when he affected Fifth Ave-
nue. When he discovered Sherry's for himself, with its
quieter and more exclusive atmosphere, his close friends,
who had been told he was not to be found at any of
the political hangouts, might chance upon him there,
during one of his runs down from the State Capital.
As a matter of fact, one recalls first making his acquaint-
ance at Sherry's bar.
  The other figure was seldom seen at any time in the
Bar. But it was seen there. More apt to be found, it
was, .however, in the Men's Cafe, when Boss Croker and
Charlie Murphy were "receiving" at one of its tables.
He was a good-looking young man, smooth-faced, quick-
eyed, though his most prominent feature, perhaps, was
a nose of the build that expresses determination. He
didn't seem to be in the habit of saying much when in
the Waldorf in those days, but he did appear to be
doing a good deal of listening-and observing.
  Ex-Governor Smith, if he reads this book, will prob-
ably learn for the first time of one prediction made
about him years ago. It was one Tuesday night in 1916
-the month one does not recall. The bi-weekly dinner
dance, a formal occasion at which George Boldt himself
always presided as hos~t to a party of his favorite patrons
and a few other friends, was to take place that evening
in the South Cafe, adjoining the Bar. Boldt stopped me
in the corridor as I was goi~g home to dress.
   "Will you preside at my table tonight?" he asked.
"There is som~thing going on upstairs that I wouldn't
                          [42]
                                      Hall of Fame
 miss for anything in the world. It is a dinner in honor
 of the new Sheriff, Mr. Alfred Smith. Most of his friends
 call him 'Al.' I am very fond of him and I wouldn't
 let anything keep me from attending. You know," he
 added, cocking his head on one side, as was his habit,
"I believe he is a man who will go very far."
   Just how far Al Smith was to go, Boldt perhaps did
not guess. In view of the real admiration and warm
personal interest that Boldt seemed to feel for the young
politician, it is a curious working out of fate that Al
Smith, some sixteen years after that conversation,
should open, on the spot where long stood the old Wal-
dorf, a great building which, 'a fter all, to many who
knew and loved the old hotel, more than anything else
~erves as a monument to what, for at least twenty years,
was a real American institution.
..
                       PART IV

                   Bar Patterns
                             ,
W        HAT now seems an almost incredible proportion
         of the brokers and opera tors in the Wall Street
 of twenty-five to thirty years ago-at least such as
 were family men-had homes in the immediate vicinity
of the Waldorf, Westchester and Long Island and up.-
 town apartments not yet having come into widespread
vogue as dwelling places for Wall Street. "Cocktail-
hour" drew a real majority of them to the Waldorf Bar.
Whether they drank or not, there they knew thei would
find men they wished to see. Often one would discover
"room-traders" like J akey Field and Bernard Baruch
in the crowd, and the two Wasserman brothers, w ho
were heavy speculators, were invariably present. Jay
Carlisle, the Wrenn brothers-one of them a famous
tennis player,-"Charlie" Knoblauch, the rough-rider,
were often pointed out, and William D. Oliver, stock-
broker, whose name is now perhaps a memory only to
a few middle-aged or doddering old gentlemen, but then
everybody's relative! For "Billie" Oliver, as some called
                         [ 45]
           )

       Old Waldorf Bar Days
 him, was familiarly known to most of a wide acquaintance
 as "Uncle Bill." A corpulent, cheery figure he was, always
 ready with a smile and a pleasant greeting-and thirsty!
    Many of these cocktail-hour patrons were hosts at
 tables. As a rule, they actually drank cocktails at that
 time,·Martinis and Manhattans being most popular. That
was before the "Clover Club" had won in New York
temples of thirst a wide but short-lived popularity. Very
few fancy drinks were served at cocktail-time. There
were many customers, who would stand up to the bar
with a group of friends, and before they moved away
would gulp down five or six Manhattans or Martinis
in succession. A big banquet in the hotel would fill the
Barroom at midnight, for whatever they had had up-
stairs of cocktails, champagne, and liqueurs, many men
must have, in those days, a nightcap. Often, it took
several to get them properly "habited" for bed.

               THE "WALDORF CROWD"

During the last ten or fifteen years of its existence,
though its mantle was being pa·rted by such popular
establishments as James B. Regan's "Forty-second
Street Country Club" (as the Knickerbocker Hotel
Chapter of the American School of ..Drinking was
known), the Belmont Bar, so popular with commuters
on the New Haven and New York Central Railroads,
and other more convenient hangout~ for the thirsty,
what was called "The Waldorf Crowd" was much in
evidence in the room after the close of the market.
  While lots of newspaper readers of the time thought
by "Waldorf Crowd" was meant an army of speculators
                          [ 46]
1.




                                           Bar Patte'J1-S
       and plungers headed by John W. Gates, the fact is, it
       consisted of a bare dozen men, and Gates was not of
       them. They constituted, for a time, the entire list of
      customers claimed by one of the brokerage offices in the
      Waldorf,-Benkhard & Company,-of which A. H.
      Cook was manager. So far as known, that office has not
      been paralleled in several particul,ars.
         A small stock exchange in itself, it was exclusive.
      Actually, it had just twelve customers. M9st of them
      spent the entire Market period-except at luncheon
      time-in its luxurious chairs, watchingithe ticker, swap-
      ping jokes, or dealing with one another. It adjoined the
      old South Cafe, or Grill Room, from which it was en-
      tered by a door faced with a mirror, not easy for the
      unfamiliar to locate. For luncheon, all the customers
     had to do was to come out of that door and sit down
     at tables, and at the close of the Market they had
     merely to cross the South Cafe, open another mirror-
     faced door and find themselves in the Bar.
         Strangers were not welcome in that office. Anybody
     who didn't belong quickly found the way ~ut, as a rule-_
     Of the exclusive twelve, those whose names are recalled ._
     were E. E. Smathers, oil man and race horse owner,
     and then rated as the best poker player in the United
     States; "Joe" Elwell, famous later on as the author of
     "Elwell on Bridge" and whose mysterious murder some
     years later was one of those even ts the New York police
     have never satisfactorily cleared up-or, at least, so far
     as can be gathered from court records; John A. Drake,
     betting and race track associate of John W. Gates (both
     already mentioned); "Pete" Rogers, man-about-town;
                              [ 47]
        ,,, f/aldorf Bar Days
 A. B. Huc;lson; "Al" Dryrer, Burton S. Castles, who
 ow1~ed a · eat deal of New York real estate, and who
 speciali ed in cotton; John R. Keim, a jeweler; Joseph
 Mo , who was associated with William R. Hearst;
 and Clarence Fuller, known among his circle as the best
 tape-reader uptown.
   For one long period, Steel was the stock most dealt
in in that room, with Texas Oil a good second, though
 that occasionally divided interest with Mexican Petro-
leum. No wonder that the manager of the office was
willing to take no more customers. That broker's dozen
gave him all the business he could handle, individual
operations sometimes running into what was then an
amazing number of shares. The biggest lot ever bought
or sold in that room was 70,000 shares of Steel. As a
matter of fact, that lot was both bought and sold, be-
cause the deal was made right there in that office be-
tween two men. However, the sale had to be consum-
mated through the Stock Exchange, and the House
telephoned the orders down to its Stock Exchange mem-
ber to be recorded, so that the transaction would be
legal.
   There was a good deal. of buying and selling between
individuals, but, of course, the transactions were not
regular until the matter was put through the Stock
Exchange. A deal woqld start by one man's reading the
news one way, and another in another fashion. One
would come in the office feeling decidedly bearish. An-
other w0uld talk bullish. The bear would decide he
wanted to get rid of a lot of Steel, or something else
he had on hand. The bull would take him up. They
                           [ 48]
                                     Bar Patterns
would watch the ticker, agree on the price at a certain
point and, bingo! with the exception of the Stock Ex-
change proceeding, the deal was made. The office saw
a lot of such cross-transactions of purchasing and sell-
ing, personal, in effect. As a matter of fact, the crowd
was like one big family. All knew each other by their
front names, and Benkhard's branch was just like an
exclusive club, but with something going on all the
time. That office, according to its manager, used to
make a net profit of a rpillion dollars a year. One must
handle a lot of stock for those days to make that much
money. As soon as the market had closed, somebody
in the crowd would remember that it was time for re-
freshment, and a procession would empty the office and
head for the Bar.
   In almost constant attendance after office hours one
would note the Housman brothers, brokers, and E.W.
Slattery, who was manager of a brokerage office. And
on days when there was no matinee, -one would invari-
ably discover Frank Henhessey, manager of the old
Casino Theatre, who, after this long lapse of time, is
still an active student of the stock-tic.Ker. Hennessey
still claims never to have taken a drink of alcohol in
his life; he admits, however, that in those days he was
the greatest consumer of "pop" that ever had to manage
chorus girls .. In the same circle in the Bar with Hen-
nessey one often saw "Joe" Gatins, an Atlanta million-
aire, who was rumored to be a heavy operator in the
cotton market.       *      *       *      *
   As has been indicated, this will prove no directory
of patrons. One could use up as many sheets as a New
                         [ 49]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
 York telephone directory contains, and still not be able
 to get them all in. The crowd has been compared to a
 "Who's Who." Often, it contained a 'lot of "Who
 Wasn't." No list of references was required for admis-
sion; no card; nothing, as a matter of fact, beyond a
fairly decent appearance, or one that advertised ready
money. If a detective who was supposed to keep his
eye on the crowd happened to be off guard, others
slipped in. Questionable characters and crooks, for ex-
ample. But even a Waldorf sleuth would be slow to
deny admission to Dr. John Grant Lyman, promoter
of a notorious zinc swindle during the early part of the
century, for Lyman "looked like a million dollars,"
talked that way, and bought that way. True, they had
prevented him from registering during the hotel's early
days, but for years he proved a good customer of the
Bar, and no doubt there found many an ear ready to
drink in his "blue sky" chants.

          PROFESSIONAL REVOLUTIONISTS

Not infrequently, revolution-experts were of the com-
pany present-men who were the heads or members of
organizations that stood ready, at the drop of a hat,
or upon receipt of a code cable, to start up trouble in
any Latin-American country, provided the prke was
forthcoming. Gun:-running was at one time a remuner-
ative, if sometime hazardous vocation-some spelled it
''avocation''-in the Caribbean and along the West
coast from Nicaragua down. One dealer in ammunition
and guns owned, or leased, an island up the Hudson,
which was reported to be well stocked with the latest
                         [ 50]
                                      Bar Patterns
  war material of the day. This could be promptly dumped
 into the hold of a chartered "tramp" and headed wher-
 ever trouble was brewing.
    Every gold rush was followed sooner or later by an
 influx of rough-looking men wearing wide brimmed hats
 -and more than once, cowhide boots-and the air
 would resound with tales of "big strikes" and of "pros-
 pects" that promised big, and whose performances later
 made a big hole in many a speculative bank account.
 Cripple Creek, for example; Alaska, Tonopah-all paid
 tribute to Boldt's Bar. And those miners wanted the
 most expensive drinks. Charhpagnewas theirfirstthought.
    Opportunities offered by the assemblage of so many
 men who were making easy money in mining, or in
 "The Street", were too pregnant to be resisted by cer-
 tain purveyors of luxuries. At least one noted dealer in
 uncut precious stones always drifted in to scan those
whose actions or talk indicated they had been lucky in
 the market, and he usually did a thriving business be-
cause, in those times, men who had made money on
"flyers" were apt to have their lighter m9ments. That
crafty psychologist derived considerable profit from per-
suading such that one way to celebrate the-ir good for-
tune was to select a costly trinket for the lady in the
uptown flat. And invariably in the gathering were to
be discovered a full half-dozen gentlemen whose spe-
cialty in trade was either high-priced art or antiques.
To their activities amid those inspirational scenes one
who used to know most of the local art merchants and
many of the imported ones has often dated the rise of
the passion for art-collecting which became so wide-
                         [ 5I )
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
spread and violent during the early years of the century.
More than once, however, the yearning for the acqui-
sition of "high art" instilled-or distilled-in that im-
pregnated, if not perfumed, atmosphere, was subjected
to check and revision by experience and acquired knowl-
edge of the subject; and more than one nouveau who
used to brag about the "old masters" he had picked
up, found excuse later on to subject his art gallery to
a process of "weeding."
   Waldorf bar prices will bring pleasing and maybe
precious memories to those who are not unfamiliar with
bills at night clubs and speakeasies and the varying
ticker of the family bootlegger. Across the dry or dryish
decades, one such may recall many stimulative cock-
tails-simple or complex-at twenty cents; whiskey
highballs-help yourself from the bottle: no stinting
measuring cups-twenty cents; domestic beer at ten
cents a glass, and imported at fifteen; liqueurs and
liqueur brandies, some of venerable years, from twenty-
five cents to forty, depending upon age; with cham-
pagnes and other wines commandable from a list almost
as long as a concise dictionary. And certain old-timers
recall earlier and still cheaper prices, and tell you that
when they raised the pfice of highballs from two for a
quarter to fifteen cents each, it almost precipitated a riot.
   The average price of cigars sold in the Bar was thirty-
five cents, which meant that a favorite choice was either
 a "Corona Corona" or a "Fancy Tale." Both were fa_
vorites. Rich men with new money liked to smoke long
 cigars. Not a  few  dollar cigars were sold. That was a
 lot of money for a smoke in those days.
                            [52]
                                      Bar Patterns
   Two famous characters who patronized the Bar for
many years, day after day, would remain until curfew
hour. They were known to the crowd only as "Harry"
and "Sherry." They would come in together and take
a position at one corner of the counter and one would
order the drinks. While these were being consumed,
Harry and Sherry would stand with 'their heads close
together, talking in whispers. The first drink dis-
patched, both would move a step 'o nward, and from
that coign of vantage order a second round, meantime
continuing the whispering. This' progression would keep
on, step by step, until the bar closed; by which hour
t.hey would have reached the point from which they
started.
   The friendship of Harry and Sherry and their peculiar
rite survived at least until the Bar was put out of busi-
ness by prohibition. The two men were said to be artists.
One died some years ago. The other, now looking more
than four score, was seen in the lobby of the_old hotel
not long before it closed. Louis Dery, for years a cashier
in the Bar and later the hotel's Credit Manager,
watched him pause at the portal through which, for so
many years, he had passed to spirituous exaltation. The
famous altar of Bacchus, over which he had poured so
many libations and spent with his friend so much time
and money, had long disappeared and its site had been
claimed by a humidor. The old man looked long at the
spot where had stood the corner from which he and his
chum had begun their daily circuits. Then he sighed,
shook his head and tottered hurriedly out of the hotel
as if he were fleeing from ghosts.
                          [ 53]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
                "THERE 1s Ho PE!"
A long-time figure was Dr. James M. Munyon, man-
ufacturer and purveyor of a widely publicized line of
household remedies. Dr. Munyon was a short, slender
man, who usually affected a flat-topped white derby,
with a black band. His favorite costume was a gray
cutaway suit. His bushy hair, prominent features and
upraised hand, his lips in the act of vocalizing "There
is hope!" were familiarized by a tremendous lot of
advertising.
   Dr. Munyon was not a great drinker. He spent most
of his time, when in the Bar, chatting wit~ acquaint-
ances. He did like a milk punch, however, and fre-
quently thus refreshed himself alone. He had a well de-
veloped sense of humor; one used to think that he had
gone to the same school earlier attended by P. T.
Barnum.
  One day, Johnnie Solon had just compounded for him
his favorite personal prescription, and Munyon stood
drinking slowly, meanwhile chatting with the barman.
Finally, after some observation of the latter, Munyon
said, shaking his finger, "Johnnie, you are just as big
a faker as I am."
  An almost daily custo.rner for a .long time was Dr.
William H. Brocklemeyer, a nose and throat specialist,
who, at a fixed hour in the afternoon, would come in
to be joined by his friend, Henry. E. Dixey, the actor,
for a few rounds of appetizers. Many other actors made
port there, or had a cocktail made for them on after-
noons that were no-t matinee days. For example, Her-
bert Kelcey, a stage idol of the romantic young ladies
                         [54]
                                      Bar Patterns
 of the time, handsome and always correctly groomed,
 invariably chose the Bar as the goal of a solitary prom-
 enade down the Avenue. He would stop just long enough
 to have one little drink, and would then saunter out,
 strolling back up the Avenue. William H. Crane and
 Nat Goodwin, who had a drink named after him (q. v.),
were "regulars," and Peter F. Dailey, popular comedian
of the Weber & Fields show, and John T. Kelly, of the
same Company, were often in rotund view, and occa-
sionally one might spot the long, lanky figure of Dan
Daly, another comedian, who helged make "The Belle
of New York" famous. A much more frequent patron
was Burr Mcintosh, who deserted the stage temporarily
to take up photography and publish a magazine. John
Ringling, the circus man, was an occasional patron of
the place, but the stout, good-looking youth who wa~
seen there often during the last few years of the Bar
was not one of his "attractions." He weighed more than
three hundred pounds, but by everybody was called
"Tiny" Longley. "Tiny" is said to have "reduced"
since those days as a farmer in New 'England.

                    BEER BARONS

The big brewers of the country invariably gravitated to
the place at more or less regular intervals. One would
frequently encounter such local beer barons, for ex-
ample, as William Lemp, George F. Ehret, Jr., W. H.
Beadles ton, "Rudy" Schaeffer, and Colonel Jacob Rup-
pert, Jr.; and from over Newark way, a Ballantine
would drop in frequently, to see how his product was
going- and to take something else. Adolph\JS Busch,
                         [55]
     Old Waldorf Bar Days
of St. Louis, the most imposing figure of them all, with
his great stature, large mustache and imperial, and
wide-brimmed hat, seldom missed a call during his
visits to New York; while a Wisconsin city would send
the Pabsts, who, to quote their slogan, brewed the "beer
that made Milwaukee famous."
   John McGraw, manager of the New York Giants,
was a great spender in the Bar, and so was Garry Her-
mann, equally famous and equally popular with Mc-
Graw in the baseball world. Neither of them would
permit anybody else to buy drinks for the crowd so
long as he was present. If a barman gave a drink check
to anybody else when McGraw or Hermann was treat-
ing, he "got in Dutch."
   The crowd at times would also be liberally decorated
with "cauliflower ears," for a new pugilistic champion
must always be brought there to be toasted and to be
admired. And having found the way, he would come
again. One has seen in the room, for example, Jim J ef-
fries,lanky BobFi tzsimmons, andhuge-chested TomShar-
key, who owned a saloon in Fourteenth Street. Even
John L. Sullivan, long the most famous fighter in the
prize ring, used to drift in, white-haired and white-
mustached, to amaze the curious, who found it almost
incredible that the fine-looking old m·an, who, from his
appearance, might have been a retired bank president,
was really a noted "pug." And "Jim" Corbett would
also be seen in the crowd, though Jim was not much of
a drinker. He, too, had his own saloon, andjust ·a block
or so away, but Jim _had many friends at the old Wal-
dorf. There he impressed all who came into contact ·
                         [56]
                                     Bar Patterns
with him with a feeling that his nickname of "Gentle-
man Jim" was well deserved. Jim would never let a
barman, a waiter, a bellboy, a telegraph operator, or a
telephone girl, do anything for him without a tip; and
persons in a menial position are wont to measure man-
ners by the yardstick of generosity.
   One of the handsomest figures that graced the room
in the afternoons and evenings. was that of Emanuel
Chappelle, a champagne salesman. "Man.ny," as every-
body called him, was known in every restaurant and
drinking palace where two or thl'.ee :were able to gather
together and "open wine"-as was ' called the process
of purchasing champagne. His portly figure, white hair
and architecturally perfect features were familiar in res-
taurants and bars from the Washington Arch to what
some called the Grant's Tomb Annex. He had been
brought from San Francisco by Jim Corbett to take '
charge of the cigar counter in the latter's saloon, but
now he represented one famous brand of champagne,
and a tall lad by the name of Murphy sold another.
They were rivals and they also had otl~er rivals. It ~as
not an uncommon happening for these purchasing sales-
men to furnish a spectacle for the crowd by vying with
each other in buying their own brands. The habit was
to collect about their tables as many thirsty and ap-
preciative drinkers as possible and start opening quarts,
in rapid succession, and then continuing with "mag-
nums." It was whispered about town that Manny, for
such and similar purposes, had an expense allowance
of twenty-five thousand dollars a year.
  If any of these gentry had reserved a table in one of
                          [ 57]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
the restaurants, a bottle of the brand he represented
must stand upon it until he made his entrance into the
room. It meant advertisement. From these propagan-
dists for sparkling vintages, certain waiter-captains at
the old Waldorf drew revenue, receiving a commis-
sion on every bottle sold, which ran, in some cases, to
twenty-five per cent of the retail selling price, and even
higher. The captains commandeered the corks, and upon
presentation of the same to Chappelle or one of his
rivals, would collect on the stoppers.
   A tall, handsome man, with a large black beard, who
wore at times a flat-topped black derby, but was also
to be noted frequently in a silk hat, was Colonel T. J.
O'Brien, who had been a local Dock Commissioner and
who subsequently became United States Minister to
Uruguay. A short, stout man buying for a group at a
nearby table might be William J. Arkell, a paper bag
manufacturer, who later went into the provision busi-
ness, with very profitable results.
   "Big Bill" Edwards, famous Princeton football
player, was frequently pointed out to "tourists," as was
Frank J. Walker, for many years starter for the Grand
Circuit races. A bigger football hero of the time than
Big Bill, if not bulkier>, perhaps; was "King" Kelly, other-
wise Addison Wiley Kelly, who was frequently seen
in the Bar. Kelly was another of Princeton's great
knights of the pigskin. The man drinking next you
might be "Billie" Smith, former room clerk at the old
Hoffman House, who had gone into real estate years
before and found it profitable even in those days when
many families still had homes in New York. " Billie"
                           [58]
                                     Bar Patterns
Lennox, sportsman, and his partner, Frank Huntoon,
frequently seen in the crowd, represented Wilson's
Whiskey in these latitudes. That was before Huntoon
took up aerated water and made a fortune out of it.
Herman Ellis, also a patron of the Bar, had dipped into
the same fizz water, and found it fine for accumulating
wealth. He had previously made one fortune manufac-
turing all-tobacco cigarettes in Baltimore. A jeweler
named Billings, who had a fine .shop just across Fifth
Avenue, was said to be one of the best patrons for
Champagne cocktails that frequented the Bar.
   A little man with a pointed beard turning gray, often
noted in the Bar in company with M. M. O'Brien, pres-
ident of a well known express company of the day,
seemed to know almost everybody present, no matter
when he came in. As a matter of fact, P. J. Casey, long
titular "Mayor of Long Branch," knew almost every-
body of prominence in New York in those days, and
everybody liked him. Casey was an official of the West-
ern Union Telegraph Company, and when Long Branch
was a political center and had a race tra~k and gam-
bling establishments, and important message.s were con-
tinually being received or forwarded, he had charge of
the office down there, rendering such a high quality of
service that many financiers and politicians felt them-
selves indebted to him. Indeed, many of his wealthy
friends were really fond of "P. J.," as they called him.
In the summer of 1907 or 1908, he turned up in London,
in company with Miles O'Brien and the latter's uncle,
Judge Morgan J. O'Brien, whose guest he told me he
was during a European tour. "P. J." in official title,
                         [59]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
never got higher than something like district superin-
tendent for his company, but he was a diplomatist and
an excellent salesman. And how many tangles he
straightened out during his lifetime for politicians,
statesmen, business men and average citizens who told
him their matrimonial troubles, one could only guess
who · knew both him-and many he served.

              KNIGHTS OF THE PALATE

In the crowd, about the end of the first decade of the
century, came to be noticed four or five men whose
occupation, when disclosed, opened the eyes of many
other patrons, who had not heard of such a job. They
were tea-tasters, and got big salaries for the judicial
exercise of their palates. They developed in time into
champagne drinkers, and so exclusive were they, that
they would patronize only the Hoffman House bar and
the Waldorf. And, avers one who knew them, "Bright's,"
in time, got most of them.
   Some of the new-money men and strangers who
turned the handle of the south door, found in the Grill
room certain novelties that awed them. At one end had
been installed an elaborate "silver grill," as it was
called, where patrons could view cooks in white caps
and coats and aprons plying their trade. In the center
of the room was an elaborate cold buffet, whereon, after
the fashion in vogue in certain well-known restaurants
abroad, one viewed an array of tempting cold dishes,
in composition and decoration unfamiliar to many who
looked upon th~m. But this was not all.
   By the side of the buffet table was a pool, where real,
                          [ 60]
                                         Bar Patterns
 live fish disported themselves, brought every day in the
 year from a preserve in upper New York State. Every
 morning, four or five dozen sparkling trout were dumped
 alive into the pool, and for luncheon or dinner patrons
 could select their meal as it swam. If they wished, they
 could even catch it in a net, provided for this purpose.
 More than once it proved necessary to convince some
 insistent individual who 11ad lugged a jag in from the
 barroom, that trying to land a trout with the hook of
 his cane, or by spearing it with 'the other end, was
 not at all de rigeur thereabouts_. At le~st once, a man who
 had clamored to get into the pmol and play that he, too,
 was a fish, had to be persuaded that "fish" in his case was a
 simile for his powers of imbition, not for his aquatic
·accomplishments. Some needed no more of a warning
 than to be told it was water the fish were swimming in.
    Certain of the characters who affected the Bar. had
 habits, or performed rites which used to interest the
 bartenders and the early-morning drinkers. One of such
 was the son-in-law of a former governor of New York.
 Before he went to breakfast in the Men's Caf~, he would
 stop in the Bar and demand a pony of brafidy. This
 order he would repeat until six empty glasses stood on
 the counter in front of him. Then he would put the lot
of them into his derby, carefully adjust the latter upon
 his head, and start dancing, the clink of the glasses
making a curious melody. His dance over, he would re-
place the glasses on the counter, solemnly pay his check,
 and then go in for his morning meal.
   Many an old habitue or employee recalls the pros-
perous-looking patron of that part of the hotel, whom
                            [ 61 ]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
the uninitiate would set down as a banker or an indus-
trial magnate, but who was never known to pay for a
drink. Yet he probably. swallowed as much at the coun-
ter or in the Barroom as its best customer during a long
period of years. He was the original "yes man," for part
of his pursuit in life was finding those who would buy
him drinks and saying, "Same here!" One night a good-
sized crowd of his hosts-or victims-decided to make
him the butt of a bit of good-natured fun. One man after
another would order drinks without paying the check.
Finally, somebody commanded a round of ponies of
brandy. Except the victim of the joke, each man then
found excuse to slip out, until the other was left stand-
ing at the bar-side. Realizing suddenly that he stood
alone, he himself turned to go, but the barkeeper in-
tervened.
   "Mr. Blank," he said, "how about paying the check?"
   "What!" gasped the man, "didn't the others settle?"
   "Not this time, sir," replied the barman. "I guess
it's up to you to pay."
   The involuntary host sighed. Then he gasped, for the
checks proved to amount to more than eight dollars.
The barman, who was "in" on the.joke, kept him guess-
ing until the other was ready to weep from anguish and
mortification. Then he said in a whisper: "Mr. So-and-
So has arranged to take care of. the checks."
   But a halt must be made somewhere. It used to be
said that, except for gentlemen of the cloth, anybody
who was anybody; or wanted to. be thought somebody,
or who wanted to find someone of financial or newspaper
note, could be seen in that room or at its doorway,
                          [ fo.]
                                         Bar Patterns
sometime. If he didn' t take a drink, he at least took a
peep at the "menagerie"; and if the attraction was sel-
dom lions, there were certain hours of the day when the
                    . h "b u 11s " an d "b ears. "
room was pac k ed wit


                    PRIVATr:      JoHN

To dismiss a recollection of a place where so much rude,
ungainly and uproarious story-telling was done, but
where, too, so much real humor    I
                                    came out under the
stimulative effect of generously drunk spirit, without
calling to mind one of its most decorative as well as
most intelligent wits, would almost mean leaving the
best egg out of this rum omelet. Up rises from a table
at the farther end of the room a tall, slender man w~ose
gray mustache bears evidence that the lingering traces
of good liquor may be held too precious for desecration
by a pocket handkerchief.
   "Private John Allen to the bar!"
   And "Private" John Allen never said nay to -such an
invitation.
   The way he used to tell it, Congressman Allen-of
Tupelo, Mississippi, suh!-had dubbed himself with the
title by which he was invariably known. After the Civil
War he found the South overrun with generals and
colonels and majors, so that at encampments of Con-
federate veterans, when it seemed that everybody he
met had commanded an army, a brigade, a regiment,
or at least a battalion, while he himself had never risen
above the ranks, he concluded he must be the only pri-
vate of the Confederate Army who had survived the
                          [ 63]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
conflict. So he chose for himself the title of "Private,"
and thereafter gave it distinction.
   A man of great charm and an excellent story-teller,
his friends used to say that had Allen taken up the pen,
he must have proved no mean rival to Mark Twain.
Once while engaged in a daily search for humor for the
old New York Sun, I spent three enchanted hours lis-
tening to Private John and Harris Dickson swap yarns
in the Bar. Dickson was a fellow-Mississippian, and no
bad second to the other. Unlike him, however, Dickson
put a good deal of his stuff into stories for the magazines.
   Almost every member of Congress was Private Allen's
friend. One proof is that when he got up in Congress
and demanded that his home town of Tupelo, Miss.,
be made the site of a government fish-hatchery, they
just handed him his wish on a platter.
   Private John was a poker-player of considerable
prowess, even if luck usually ran against him. Shortly
before a session of Congress, his close friend, Colonel
E. T. Brown, of Atlanta, would invariably receive a
telygram that he was 01;1 his way to Washington, via
Atlanta. Whereupon Colonel Brown would notify an-
other resident of that city, and one of South Carolina.
Upon Private John's· arrival at Atlanta the four would
go into a long session at one of the local clubs, whence
frequently the Mississippian would continue his journey
to Washington considerably lighter in pocket.

                  OLD GREEN R1vAH

Private Allefi showed up at least once a year at the
Waldorf, and his visits seldom continued less than three
                                     Bar Patterns
weeks. One afternoon, Colonel Brown arrived at the
hotel and, suspecting the whereabouts of his poker in-
timate, sought the door of the Bar. And, sure, enough,
at his favorite table, the center of a group of attentive
listeners, sat Private John Allen. On the table was a
bottle of Old Green River whiskey. At Allen's right was
a stout man, red-faced ~nd with a tremendous mustache
of a hue that matched. The other waved his hand and
shouted, "Come right over, Colonel Brown!" As the
newcomer approached, Private john arose.
   "Gentlemen," he said, ":'this is Colonel Brown, of
Atlanta, Georgia. Colonel Brown, suh, I wish you to
meet Majah Soandso. Majah Soandso is the represen-
tative suh, of that wonderful, that potent, that seduc-
tive beverage-0-1-d Gre-e-n Rivah."
   Colonel Brown sat and the bottle was passed around.
Another was ordered and then another. Finally, Private
John suggested: "Let's all go down to the Hoffman
House."
   A few minutes later, the party lined ~p at the long
bar counter of that establishment.
   "Gentlemen, will you indicate your preference?"
Private John's voice invited. Each named his choice in
turn. Finally the white-coated bartender reached the
end of the line.
   "And yours, sir?" he said to Private John.
   "You may give me, suh," came the answer in a full,
round voice that reverberated through the room, "some
of that great liquah that is considered a boon in every
well-regulated household-0-1-d Gr-e-en Rivah !"
   The bartender inclined his head to one side. "I beg
                          [ 65]
      Old Waldoif Bar Days
 your pardon, sir," he said. "I didn't quite catch that."
   "I said} suh," Private John returned, "some of that
 beneficent, luscious, pervasive and persuasive liquah
 whose eloquence has chahmed a continent - 0-1-1-d
 Gr-r-e-e-en Rivah !"
   "I am very sorry, sir," the polite barman now re-
 turned, shaking his head. "We haven't such whiskey
and I have never heard of it. But we have Old Crow,
Y.P.M.-"
   "What, suh ?" bellowed Private Allen. "Do you mean
to tell me, suh, that you haven't any of that famous,
soul-inspirin' liquah; the joy of every American father,
the pride of every American mother, and for which
American children cry instead of for Pitchah's Castoria
-0-1-1-1-d G-r-r-r-e-e-n Riv ah?''
   "I am sorry, sir," said the barman, "but we haven't it."
   "Well, by Gawd," exclaimed Private Allen, his voice
this time at its highest and most reverberant pitch, "you
haven't got Old Green Rivah! Well, suh, I just refuse
to drink in such a low-down place. Come on, fellahs !"
And he led the way out of the barroom.
   The next afternoon, Colonel Brown saw Private Allen
and the red-mustached major in close communion just
outside the Barroom entrance. The major slipped
away. Private John "said to ·Colonel Brown, with a
chuckle, "Do you know, the Majah tells me he slipped
into the Hoffman House Bar, this mornin', and sold 'em
seventy-five cases of Old 6reen Rivah. Colonel," he
continued, with a wink, "how'd you like, ·suh, for me
to send you down a case of.Old Green Rivah with my
compliments?"
                          [66)

                                                              \
                         PART V

              Faculty and Proctors
                                I


 T    HE FIRST principal of this head chapter of the Amer-
        ican School of Drinking, so to speak, was Michael
· Killackey, a colorful Celt, of rare wit, courage and per-
  sistence, whose official title was Wine Steward and Head
  Barman. He held that position for many years.
     But there was one day not long before the Astoria
  part of the hotel and the brass rail Bar opened, when
  not only Killackey, but John Doyle, assistant steward
  of the hotel, trembled in fear of immediate decapitation.
  Their discomfort was attributa'ble partly te a sudden
  severance of relations between the hotel and a bellhop
  named O'Reilly; partly to the facility with whtch "John-
  nie" Kenny, a Sun reporter of those days, found and
  utilized "good copy."
     O'Reilly, whatever his efficiency as a bellboy, was a
  lad of ready resource. Often he had to act as a guide
  in showing visitors about the hotel. If a stranger asked
  a question, O'Reilly was always ready with a reply, and
  the tales he had told of the origin and meaning of certain
                           [ 67]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
 things that struck the sightseers, overheard by members
 of the staff, were one night the subject of conversation
 at a dinner of heads of departments, presided over by
 no less a person than George C. Boldt himself, pro-
 prietor of the hotel.
   When anecdote after anecdote had been told, up
spoke Boldt. "I can match any of those yarns and mine
is fresher than most of them," he said, in effect. Boldt
later on conquered much of the accent then character-
istic of his speech. "You all know Mr. Barclay War-
burton, who is about to marry Miss Wanamaker, of
Philadelphia. They came over here today to select quar-
ters for their honeymoon. Naturally, I myself undertook
to help them make a selection, and first I showed them
the State Apartment.
   "It so happened that at the same time what was ap-
parently a party of schoolgirls was being guided through
the building by this O'Reilly. You know the beautiful
Fran~ois I bed is in that suite. Well, O'Reilly and his
party were in the bedroom when Mr. Warburton, Miss
Wanamaker and I reached the drawing-room. The por-
tieres were not closed, so that everything that happened
in the other room could be heard where we were. I be-
came aware that O'Reilly was describing the bed as
made of solid gold . •And then, while I was gasping, I
heard him add: 'Yes, young ladies, I was thinking what
a wonderful nuptial chamber this would make.'
   "You can guess the eff~ct upon us who overheard.
Mr. Warburton, of course, laughed outright, but Miss
Wanamaker was very much embarrassed. I thought I
should sink through the floor."
                         [ 68]
                             Faculty and Proctors
   Killackey and Doyle were regular attendants at meet-
ings of the Tenderloin Club, an organization composed
largely of newspaper reporters, and which functioned
in the neighborhood of the Tenderloin police station.
Johnnie Kenny was usually there and he never missed
anything worth telling in print. It was a great place
for the exchange of yarns, and under the spell of good-
fellowship and equally good beer,. the two hotel men
would recount the expfoits of Bellhop O'Reilly. After
the staff dinner referred to, they resorted to the Club,
as usual and, of course, they must tell the latest and
what proved to be their las,t O'Reilly story, for Boldt
had that day discharged the bellhop as too gifted an
interpreter of the "\Valdorf's magnificence.
   Spread in the Sun a day or two later, Doyle and Kil-
lackey read all the doings of O'Reilly as they had told
them in sequence at the Tenderloin Club. It ~o hap-
pened that shortly before the proprietor of the hotel
had given strict orders against publicity. There had
been too much of it, he had said, and his guests were
complaining. That, be it stressed, was a different day
from this in which we now livei
   Killackey and Doyle spent an anxious morning. What
would the Old Man say? And do? He was a person of
singular acumen and they knew he could easily trace
to them the story which, in its way, emphasized a defect
in the hotel organization. They talked it over gloomily
and wondered if they hadn't better look around for new
jobs.
   Boldt rarely came downstairs before noon. Both the
Assistant Steward and the Wine Steward avoided the
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
spots where he usually appeared. In the lobby, during
the afternoon, however, he happened to see Doyle first,
and beckoned to him. Doyle approached, quaking in
his boots. But Boldt was smiling.
   "Oh, Mr. Doyle," he said with a chuckle, "did you
see the Sun today?"
  With a straight face but shaking inwardly, Doyle
pleaded complete ignorance.
   "Well, it's the funniest thing you ever saw," Boldt
went on. "A story about one of our bellboys. I was so
amused by it that I sent a copy to Mr. Astor (William
Waldorf Astor, owner of the original Waldorf) who, I
know, will get a good laugh out of it." Doyle immedi-
ately passed the good word to Killackey, and then for
the first time that day the two were able to smile.

         THOUGHT SHE KNEW COCKTAILS

On at least one occasion, Killackey proved to be a per-
son of ready resource, justifying not only Boldt's confi-
dence in him and in the quality of the liquor served in
the hotel as well, but enabling the hotel proprietor to
witness a demonstration that one who had disparaged
his spirits had spoken out of turn. And that mistaken
critic was Boldt's own,:wife.
   Mrs. Boldt-a very charming woman she was-be-
lieved she knew the difference between cocktails. One
day she said to her husband, "George, how is it our
bartenders cannot make a cocktail as good as is served
at the Holland House?"
   The Holland -House was a rival establishment a few
blocks down Fifth Avenue, famous for its bar and the
                          [70]
                                  Faculty and Proctors
 latter's higher prices, as well as for the excellence of its
 cmsme.
     Boldt immediately sent for Killackey. "Michael," he
 said, "Mrs. Boldt claims our cocktails are not so good
 as those served at the Holland House."
     Killackey's eyes glittered. "Mike" knew something
 about women.
    "I'll take care of that, sir~ " he said. Back he went to
 his province, and gave an order to a barman.
    "Make up two bottles of Manhattan cocktails," he
said. "Label
         ,       one 'Waldorf' a11d  , the other 'Holland
House. Make them exactly the same. Let me know
when you get 'em ready."
  . A half hour or so later, Killackey, with a bottle under
each arm-one with "Waldorf" plainly printed thereon,
the other with "Holland House" similarly inscribed-ap-
peared at Boldt's office. A few words, and Boldt sent
for Mrs. Boldt.
    Glasses were brought. Mike solemnly took up the
bottle which all could see was named "Holland House,"
and filled three glasses. Mrs. Boldt tasted hers.
    "That's a lovely cocktail," she said, and drank. The
appetizer swallowed, she was enthusiastic. "I knew I
was not mistaken," she told her husband.
    Killackey did not let a muscle of his face relax while
he placed three other glasses and slowly opened the
bottle bearing the legend, "Waldorf." Mrs. Boldt took
up her glass gingerly, put it to her lips, shook her head.
"I can't drink this at all," she said. "It is simply ter-
rible! I told you so," she said to her husband.
    "Michael," said Boldt sternly, but with a flicker of
                           [71]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
his left eyelid, "I am afraid you are not teaching your
men right." The lady looked her triumph.
   "All right, my dear," Boldt said to her, "I'll take care
of this. Perhaps you had better retire while I lecture
Killackey."
   As soon as the lady had left the room, Boldt shook his
head after her, looked at his Wine Steward, and chuckled.
   "Michael," he said to Killackey, "I think I owe you
two hundred dollars!" And Killackey got the money.
   Killackey, who had.left the Waldorf before the War,
came to a tragic end some time after we had got in to
the European mixup.
   Against the wishes and the efforts of his family and
his nephew, John Killackey, who had now become the
hotel's cashier, Michael had prevailed upon the direc-
tors of the Knights of Columbus to send him to France,
and he made the trip over and back several times. On
the day he was due to sail the last time, he reached
the pier after the transport had got away. A newspaper
man put him on a tug and they chased downstream
after the big vessel. Once alongside, Killackey started
to mount the Jacob's ladder, burdened as he was with
a heavy bag. Near ·the top, he missed his footing. In
his fall, he struck against the tug's rail, breaking three
of his ribs. He pounded .off into the water.
   Up he bobbed, spluttering. "I'll make that blank-
blank boat yet," he cried, and struck out for her.
   Sailors grabbed hi~ and tied him about with ropes.
They fished him out, hauled him up the transport's side
and took him to the ship's hospital, where army sur-
geons la-bored over hitn.
                                Faculty and Proctors
  But they could not save Killackey. Only his doughty
spirit went on to France. He died on the way across.
                *       *           *   *
   Killackey's successor, as High Priest of this Temple
of Bacchus, or principal of this branch of the American
School of Drinking, was Phil Kennedy, also of Gaelic
origin, and proud of it. He had been Killackey's lieu-
tenant, or aide, and had done most of the hiring for the
Bar from its early days. The proudest day of Kennedy's
life, his friends used to say, 'fas that on which he him-
self composed for Ireland's most publicized poet of the
time, and served with his own hands, a drink that made
such a hit with thirsty literature that the poet would
drink nothing else.
   William Butler Yeats had come over to New York
with the Irish Players during one of the early years of
the present century, and certain New York literati, eager
to do him honor, gave him a luncheon in ' the Men's
Cafe of the hotel, across the hall from the place where
Kennedy presided. Phil had advance word and was
thrilled. Naturally, cocktails were ordered, and Ken-
nedy decided that no other.hands must J:ouch this offer-
ing. The cocktails must be something different. Yeats
must have heard the word "cocktail," Ph~I realized, but
there were things about drink that most Irishmen who
had never before seen New York did not know. The
Clover Club Cocktail, not so long before imported from
Philadelphia, was then regarded as the last word in ap-
petizers. It had not yet crossed the Atlantic. So Kennedy
with his own hands shook up a trayful of Clover Clubs
and, brushing aside the waiters who sought to render
                            [ 73]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
assistance, carried them himself over to the Men's Cafe,
and passed the tray.
  Yeats eyed the novel pink drink warily. At first, he
was for waving it away, but yielding to persuasion and,
possibly influenced by the appeal in anxious Kennedy's ·
eyes, he took one.
   Kennedy stood back to await results. Yeats, glancing
about, noted in surprise that his table companions han-
dled the concoction in what seemed to him a precipitous
and summary fashion. All they did was to lift their
glasses, open their mouths, crook the elbow and then
set down an empty·glass.

                YEATS ON COCKTAILS

This was not a poet's way. Yeats tasted the cocktail,
and smacked his-lips. Another taste. His eye gleamed
and his face lighted up. But, to the surprise of his hosts,
he declined to gulp. This thing must be taken slowly.
It was filled with a variety of flavors, and it must be
tasted all the way down to the bottom of the glass. So
he just sat and sipped that Clover Club Cocktail. When
wine was brought and proffered him, he waved it away.
   "Another of th~ same," ~e said, in effect, and he kept
sipping Clover Club Cocktails all the way through the
meal. And the delighted Kennedy felt it was a great
day for Ireland.
                 *      *          *    *
   During most of its history, the Bar opened at six
o'clock and closed at any time the next morning, though
one A. M. was official closing time. Sixteen bartenders
were employed, and often ten of them were on duty
                            [74]
                                 Faculty and Proctors
 during one watch. The big trade usually began to reach
 its climax 'about 4:30 in the afternoon, when the cock-
 tail crowd was now streaming into the hotel from all
 parts-not only of Manhattan but the United States
 at large-and at six o'clock trade was at the peak.
    Among the barmen were John O'Connor, who was
 an old-timer; Mike O'Connor; Paddie Hafey, sometimes
 called "Patsy"; Frank MacAloon; Billie Lahiff, who
 now owns a big restaurant; Johnnie Solon, and "Dan, the
 Barboy." Of the last tw.o, more will be told further on.
    Each of the bartender~ had his own "specialties." Or,
 there were certain drinks he had the reputation, with
a certain group, for composing perfectly; so that each
had his own customers, apart from the trade that came
in and patronized the "barkeep" at whose station the
smallest queue was waiting to be served.
    Some of the early barmen, becoming expert, were
seized with an ambition to go back to Ireland and wean
the Celtic pala te away from the home-m ade drinks that
had been drunk down throµ,gh the ages, but whose orig-
inal Gaelic names had been adopted by. perfidious Brit-
ons and transmogrified. Why, even then, when they
wanted tha t "water of life," of which poets had sung
as Uisgebeatha, and kings and long and growing lines
of descendants had popularized- even then thirsty Irish-
men were calling for "whiskey" though "Ould Irish"
was usually uttered.
   Edward F. Flynn, one of the ablest of American jour-
nalists who ever served as correspondent in foreign coun-
tries, long correspondent of the N ew York A merican in
London, and later editor of the London Daily Mirror,
                         [ 75]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
tells of finding one of those barmen in Ireland during
the early part of the century.
   He had reached Cashel, a little town in Tipperary,
a hundred miles or so southwest of Duplin, famous for
a rock towering above it, on which tourists find some .
of the most imposing ruins in Ireland. Weary and thirsty
from sightseeing, the American found a dirty little "pub-
lic house" which looked far from inviting. He entered,
hesitatingly, to confront a genial bartender. The latter's
expression somehow reminded him of home.
   "I suppose you couldn't make me a cocktail," sug-
gested the visitor.
   "Sure, I can, sir. And what kind, sir?"
   Flynn thought he would give him something out of
the other's ken.
   "Make it a Clover Club," he said. And after certain
familiar rites, the barman set down before him a Clover
Club that, except that it betrayed lack of ice in the
making, was perfect in content.
   "Where the deuce did you ever learn to make a drink
like that?" the newspaper man inquired.
   "Why, sir," said the barman, "where else but at the
Waldorf? Meself was a barman there for several years."

                 SOLON AT THE BAR

During the greater part of its existence, the most pop-
ular professor in Bar One of the American School of
Drinking was "Johnnie" Solon. Johnnie helped close the
Bar when prohibition descended. He had come to it soon
after the Spanish-American War, in which he served as
a volunteer. Like certain others of the most famous bar-
                              Faculty and Proctors
men of bar history, Johnnie, in his personal habits, was
one of the strictest professors of prohibition that never
lectured on a platform, nor tried to dictate the habits
of their fellow-men. He was a teetotaler. He never took
a drink in his life, and he never smoked.
   The Solon family is one of real antiquity, the earliest
Solon of whom the_re is record antedating any of the
O'Briens, O'Tooles, O'Flahertys, or any other Gaelic
kings, runed or crooned. H?wever, this statement is
made in some apprehe~sion, though the Solon of whom
mention is now made, has had a date pinned on to him
by history, between 639 and 559 B. C., which was some
time before St. Patrick thought of Ireland and snakes.
Solon, a Greek, was famous as a law-giver, and as such
has been much esteemed by ancients and moderns called
to another bar, which, except for those inconveniences
incidental to the discovery of a dependable bootlegger,
has not seemed to have suffered appreciably from any
prohibi'i:ory ban. Particularly was that ancient cham-
pion of the rights of the people, and himself a sort of
early vox populi, an authority on debts· and debtors.
   Research indicates that that particular Solon was ap-
parently the first of the name, because· his father bore
the appellation "Execestibes," and he was descended
from the noble line of the Codrids, which may or may
not be the English pronunciation of O'Connor-or, pos-
sibly Cavanaugh. At least, a people that, even when
sober, make Magdalen "Maudlin" and Cholmondeley
"Chumley," might do even worse with a good old Irish
name. Look what they did with Uisgebeatha!
   As to whether the original Solon or one of his descend-
                          [ 77]
       Old Waldorf Bar Days
 ants quit Greece and took himself and his ideas about
 debts and debtors to Ireland, is not clear. Report says
 that, despite the endeavors oflearned scholars, there are
 a few ancient inscriptions in Ireland that have not yet
 been translated. But certain letters of the Gaelic alpha-
 bet bear little resemblance to the Roman. To an Eng-
 lishman they might seem Greek. Well, Johnnie Solon's
 family came from Ireland, and not directly, at least,
 from Greece, and this chronicler will delve no farther
 back into his history than to mention that when the
 Waldorf's brass-rail Bar opened, in 1897, Johnnie was
 playing the modest rele of cashier in a St. Louis hotel,
 with no intention of becoming a barman.
    But after a war, a soldier begins to think of a job.
And when Johnnie was discharged, he made his way to
New York. The Waldorf was the biggest hotel; he had
 had some hotel training; he went there. And the only
job open was one slinging drinks. Johnnie had never
poured a drink or mixed one, but he felt he had it in
him to learn. And soon it developed that he had a real
flair for symphonic composition. His concoctions so
pleased customers that they sang the author's praises
wherever they werlt, and when he was on duty his corner
of the bar counter was always crowded.
   His first appearance at the Waldorf Bar almost coin-
cided with that of another historic, but tragic event, for
it was only a few days before fire destroyed the old
Windsor f!.otel, half a m~le or so up Fifth Avenue. That
was on St. Patrick's Day, 1899, which as every good
Irishman knows-and some others have reason to know
- was M arch I 7.
                              F acuity and Proctors
   One of Solon's specialties was a Mint Julep-a Julep
whose praises inspired grateful paeans during many
years and has caused many a memory to thirst in arid
areas and in dry times. It was a drink in which the time
element played an important part. The customer who
knew would give his order al)d wait. Preferably, he
would go somewhere'else and sit down and do something
to make the minutes pass, or else just enjoy thrills of
anticipation as to what that julep would be like when
he got it. Not until thirty minutes by the clock had
elapsed would he reapp~ar at the bar-side to claim his
drink. And it would come to him with frost almost half
an inch thick about the rim, icy cold, of course, and
with a mingling of scents, odors and tastes that com-
bined the perfumes of Araby with the nectar of Olym-
pus. But that Mint Julep was not, after all, Johnnie
Solon's greatest invention.
   An ungrateful-or possibly ignorant-army of drink-
ers, past and present, has failed to do- honor to a man
whose crowning achievement has been at times on mil-
lions of lips, its name pronounced in all foreign parts
wherever he who runs may read the sign, "American Bar."
   It is my privilege to announce a fact which heretofore
only a privileged few have known.

                THE BRONX IS BORN

Johnnie Solon is the inventor of the original Bronx Cock-
tail!
  Other claimants may have arisen to the title. Publi-
cists and propagandists may have endeavored to shove
forward the name of some other favorite barman as the
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
creator of a cocktail whose name, masking a variety of
curious concoctions, has been set before disgusted Amer-
icans in many parts, when they demanded a Bronx.
Even in the United States there are many conceptions
of a Bronx. But Johnnie's claim to parenthood, while ·
modestly put forth, is nevertheless a Waldorf tradi-
tion.
   Unfortunately, I have found it impossible to establish
the date of its creation. Johnnie invented so many drinks
that he never put down the dates. But to the best of
his recollection it was early in the century. This is the
story as he has told it to me:
   "We had a cocktail in those days called the Duplex,
which had a pretty fair demand. One day, I was making
one for a customer when in came Traverson, head waiter
of the Empire Room-the main dining room in the orig-
inal Waldorf. A Duplex was composed of equal parts of
French and Italian Vermuth, shaken up with squeezed
orange peel, or two dashes of Orange Bitters. Traverson
said, 'Why don't you get up a new cocktail? I have a
customer who says you can't do it.'
   " 'Can't I?' I replied.
   "Well, I finished the Duplex I was making, and a
thought came to me. I poured into a mixing glass the
equivalent of two jiggers of Gordon Gin. Then I filled
the jigger with orange juice, so that it made one-third
of orange juice and two-thirds of gin. Then into the mix-
ture I put a dash each of Italian and French Vermuth.
shaking the thing up. I . didn't taste it myself, but I
poured it in to a cocktail glass and handed it to Traver-
son and said: 'You are a pretty good judge. (He was.)
                         [ 80]
                               Faculty and Proctors
See what you think of that.' Traverson tasted it. Then
he swallowed it whole.
   "'By God!' he said, 'you've really got something new!
That will make a big hit. Make me another and I will
take it back to that customer in the dining room. Bet
you'll sell a lot of them. Have you got plenty of oranges?
If you haven't, you ,better stock up, because I'm going
to sell a lot of those cocktails during lunch.'
   "Up to that time we never ·µsed more than one dozen
oranges per day in the Bar. I sent down to the storeroom
and got two dozen. The Storeroom keeper came up him-
self and wanted to know what I meant by ordering so
many oranges. 'What the hell are you going to do with
them?' he demanded. 'Well,' I said, 'maybe I will take
them home, if I can.' But I didn't.
   "The demand for Bronx cocktails started that day.
Pretty soon we were using a whole case of oranges a day.
And then several cases.
   "The name? No, it wasn't really named directly after
the borough or the river so-called. I had been at the
Bronx Zoo a day or two b~fore, and I saw, of course, a
lot of beasts I had never known. Custom~rs used to tell
me of the strange animals they saw after a lot of mixed
drinks. So when Traverson said to me, as he started to
take the drink in to the customer, 'What'll I tell him
is the name of this drink?' I thought of those animals,
and said: 'Oh, you can tell him it is a 'Bronx'.''
   That original Bronx was later modified by other bar-
men, and the formula preserved in the book hereafter
to be liberally quoted, resembled Johnnie's invention
only as one cocktail might resemble another. And in-
                          [ 8I )
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
stead of orange juice, it gave the customer only a piece
of orange peel!
                   LAW AND ORDER

 For years I have been writing about hotel detectives.
 As a matter of fact, I once wrote a book about a hotel
 detective. But it was not published. A publisher told
 me he believed that anything tending to debunk the no-
 tion that makes so many readers for detective stories
would be like holding the Bible up to ridicule-so sacred
is the mystery story in the public mind, and the super-
sleuth about whom it usually revolves.
    But I was writing of a hotel detective. And a hotel
sleuth in the old days seldom detected.
    Boldt had a staff of house officers or, as they came
to be called, "house dicks," whose office was, nominally,
to preserve law and order. Their province, of course, in-
cluded the Bar. If the barmen constituted its faculty,
they were its proctors. Their functions frequently ex-
tended more in the direction of showing moneyed ar-
rivals from Pittsburgh and the more Open Spaces about
town after dark, taking them to where a man, fresh
from a more or less smoky or arid territory, might wish
to go-to gambling houses, perhaps, and so on. The de-
tective was supposed to ·act not only as guide but as
bodyguard, and to see that the patron was returned to
the hotel as nearly intact as the adventures of the eve-
ning permitted. Espedal attention must be paid to the
gentleman getting back with his pocketbook depleted
only by the necessary e.xpenses. He was to be kept out
of badger and other con games. Among the house dicks
                         [ 82]
                               Faculty and Proctors
 were certain powerfully built individuals who, in addi-
 tion to making routine inspections of the building and
 doing minor police work, were supposed to be physically
 able to deal with obstreperous patrons or visitors who, if
 they could not be coaxed toleavequietly,must be put out.
    Boldt's orders were strict that men who came into the
 Bar drunk should be refused service; also that when cus-
 tomers were drinking steadily, service must be stopped
when such gave evidence th~t they had taken too much.
Sometimes a tactful barman. was able to handle such a
customer. But if the l~tter became obstreperous-and
sometimes he did-a d~tective was usually within easy
call. If the customer was a "friend of the house," per-
haps an assistant manager who knew him would prove
able to persuade him that he was not being singled out
for slight, and lead him off. But more than one noisy
person had to be given the "bum's rush," when he was
grabbed by the arm and hustled out through the cor-
ridor doorway into the Astor Court.
   The best of Boldt's house detectives, in the opinion
of many who came into contact with t~em, was a quiet,
gentlemanly-looking individual by the name of Ken-
nedy. He was an efficient officer, and effective. He was
a diplomat, and many a time he prevented a row in the
Bar through the use of tact.
   Perhaps the most colorful of a long list was Schuyler
West, who became very well known during the early
days of the Bar. West was a rough-and-ready sort of
person, whose language was frequently picturesque,
rather than diplomatic. Not only did he have no fear;
he was no respecter of persons. He would just as soon
                          [ 83]
      Old Waldotf Bar Days
 tell his employer what he thought of him, as not. How-
 ever, he had his uses, and Boldt considered him a val-
 uable employee.
    The hotel proprietor used to give annually to his
 heads of departments a dinner at which they did almost
 anything they wished, and were supposed to talk freely.
 Boldt, as has been intimated, had not then acquired the
command of almost unaccented English that later be-
came a source of some pride, and his first utterance, after
taking his seat at the head of the table, would be: "Boys,
dis is your night. Have as good a time as possible. You
can even get trunk if you vish. But," he would add, "de
man who is to go on duty at seven o'clock tomorrow
morning, and fails to be dere on time, is going to suffer
de consequences."
   Invariably, the host would require that everybody
present sing a song, make a speech, or ,tell a story. Some
would hymn their most interesting theme-themselves
-and almost without exception would manage to ring
in a tribute to their host and employer. Schuyler West
was not of their mood on one occasion.

              BOLDT ACCEPTS TRIBUTE

The others in turn had flattered Boldt. West, whether
through natural boldness or Dutch courage imbibed,
grew anecdotal. He decided to tell the tale of how he
first got a job under B.oldt and how he kept it, and this
is the way he put it:
   "I was walkin' up Fi't' Av'noo one day, when I meets
de House Detective from de Waldorf. 'Hey, Cully!' I
says, 'what's de news?' An' he says, 'Aw hell, I jus' been
                          [ 84]
                                Faculty and Proctors
fired by dat old son of a b- down dere!' So I walks in
an' I gets his job right off de reel. Well, sir, I been fired
twenty times since dat~ an' I jus' puts on me hat, walks
out de back door, sashays aroun' Fi't' Av'noo to de
front door, comes in, strikes de old man an' gets de job
back. Dat's what I t'ink o' dat old son of ab-!"
   Something like consternatio!l seized the rest of the
company, with the exception of the man who had thus
been characterized. Boldt alm,o st invariably proved him-
self master of a situation. Now he jumped up, held out
his hand and said with a hearty laugh, "Vest, py golly,
you're de only man dat 'undershtands me!"
   However, a day came when a new pair of flat feet were
planted on the spot of the marble floor where West
made his post when not busy. That morning, one of the
hotel's esteemed patrons, meeting the proprietor of the
hotel, told him he had had a pretty good tinie the night
before. "But," he added, "somewhere I dropped ten to
twelve thousand dollars."
   This was against the code. Patrons with bankrolls
who left the house by night in compa?y with a hotel
detective must be returned minus such experiences, and
that day Boldt and Schuyler West parted company.
   "Joe" Smith, famed as "Scotland Yard Joe," had the
longest tenure as head detective of the Waldorf. For
many years, Joe's was a familiar face as he stood on the
spot at the corner of Peacock Alley and the lobby, well
dressed, well groomed, apparently imperturbable, but
willing to be at least deprecatory when anyone who
brought up the subject of detective work intimated that
perhaps Joe was the greatest of all modern sleuths.
                           [ 85]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
   And Joe had a big reputation. Just how much of it
was due to his own exploits is a matter open to speculation,
despite a book published shortly after the close of the old
hotel, which was supposed to relate some of the mysteries
and adventures in which Joe had starred as hero.
   There was, for instance, the tale of his chase of the
"human fly"-a story Joe never tired of telling. He had a
passion for being written up. And during the last four years
of the old Waldorf's existence, if this writer were asked to
name how many times Joe suggested that his biography
be written, he would lose count, trying to check up.
   There were times when crooks of many stripes would
look upon the Waldorf as a happy hunting-ground. Ev-
erybody who stopped in the place was supposed to be
bulging with money. Some were. Wire-tappers, green
goods men, adventuresses, promoters of all sorts of worth-
less mines, sellers of "blue-sky" literature, pickpockets,
touters for "fancy houses," criminals of every class, just
longed to get into that place and operate.
   Sometimes they did effect entrance. But Joe was al-
ways on the watch and he kept himself familiar with
the Rogues' Gallery pictures at Police Headquarters,
and sometimes he could scare them out. If they came
in numbers, Joe had an effective recourse. It was rather
a different method Of sleuthing from that open to most
detectives-even hotel detectives.
               THE WAY OF A SLEUTH
A word from a manager tcl'someone connected with the
hotel who knew "Ed" Hill, or some other friendly news-
paper reporter with a sense of humor, and then: "Say,
Ed, can't you give Joe Smith a story? We need it."
                           [ 86]
                             Faculty and Proctors
   In a day or two, Ed's newspaper or some other would
come out with a column or more telling what a terrible
fellow Scotland Yard Joe was-terrible, at least, to
crooks. A long record of Joe's exploits might be chroni-
cled; famous mysteries he had solved; famous crooks he
had spotted and jugged-most of it drawn from Joe
himself, from a good reporter's "scrap-book," or from
his recollections of othe~ previous write-ups.
   And the crooks would read-or else somebody would
tell them. And they would stay ·away-at least those
who could be identified as er.o aks-and Joe would plume
himself that the Bar and the Lobby were again like
Eden before the Serpent did his dirty work.
   Everybody who knew Joe liked him. But old-timers
on the staff had long memories. And one recollection
in which Joe had figured rankled. It was of a time Joe,
in his own way, had tried to make everybody rich. The
means was a tip purporting to come direct from J. P.
Morgan himself. Generously "slipped" by Joe, under
cover of secrecy, it cost a good many me!Ilbers of the
staff of the Waldorf their metaphorical shirts.
  Of course, persons who could get anywfiere within
sound of Morgan's voice were apt to keep o~ tiptoe to
grab any pearls of financial wisdom or information that
might drop from the lips of the oracle of finance. Such
did not realize always that there were occasions when
Morgan might speak without intending his words to be
taken seriously.
   Morgan, mentioned as an early patron of the Bar,
used to come often to the hotel to attend dinners of the
Chamber of Commerce and other big banquets. From
                         [ 87]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
the time that Joe discovered Morgan's identity, he con-
stituted himself a bodyguard for the financier whenever
he saw the latter entering the hotel. It may have been
that Joe had concluded that Morgan was in continual
danger of assassination. If J. P. came to a festivity in
the grand ballroom, Joe would make it a point to see
that his progress to the dais of honor was made safe ·for
finance, and more than once he was known to station
himself behind Morgan's chair as a Cerberus o1f watch-
fulness and protection. After such occasions, Joe knew
exactly what the Market was going to do, and some of
his friends might hear a hot tip.
   This began the "Southern Pacific incident." The stock
of that railroad was hovering a little above 50, and cer-
tain speculators were wondering whether it would prove
a good thing to buy for a rise, or to sell short. Joe, after
one of his Cerberic, if not cerebric, sessions with Mor-
gan, had to spill what was on his mind.
   According to Alfred S. Amer, then an assistant man-
ager of the hotel, Joe quoted Morgan as saying that he
"would never let. Southern Pacific go below 50." That
was all any listener needed. Almost every employee of
the front office, envisioning quick and easy wealth,
bought "S. P." Those who had savings, plunged; some
who had no money in the bank, borrowed where and as
heavily as they could and, in the lingo of The Street,
loaded up. The stock. reports in the newspapers and the
financial news now claimed earnest students, and clerks
and managers began stealing off duty to crowd the
stock-brokers' offices · in the hotel. They followed the
quotation board; they hung over the ticker.
                           [ 88]
                              Faculty and Proctors
   Soon they began to realize that either Joe had mis-
understood Morgan, or else that the financier had a
sense of humor with which he was not generally cred-
ited. For Southern Pacific manifested no signs of hitting
the ceiling. Nor did it stay put at 50. On the contrary,
it skidded and slipped until one day it reached 19. By
that time, money and savings accounts had been wiped
out, and more tha'n one employee of the hotel was head
over heels in debt. Never again did the losers listen when
Joe stood ready to slip them one of "Morgan's tips."
   Joe was once given· an
                       I
                          opportunity in the Bar to show
his nerve before a bunch of big he-men from the Gold
Hills. But it took him years to live down his actual part
in what happened.
   "Bat" Masterson, a United States Marshal, long fa_
mous in the Northwest, and a friend of Theodore Roose-
velt, was responsible. Joe had heard mor~ of Bat than
Bat had heard of Joe. Bat was in New York at the time,
 but not in the hotel, when the thing started that, after
he did come in, was effective in hei-Iding up trade and .
leaving the bartenders on duty keeping company only
with the bull and the bear and the lamb on top the re-
frigerator table-and Joe Smith.
   At a table in the middle of the room sat six big men,
some of them in wide-brimmed hats. Most of them were
mining men, and they were from Butte, Montana. Of
 the group was Colonel "Dick" Plunkett, said to be a
 United States Marshal.
             ENTER "BAT" MASTERSON
They were talking about gold strikes, mining conditions
and individual exploits, law and order, jumping claims,
                          [ 89]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
and other things mining men usually discussed at such
gatherings. Not a little egocentric hero-worship was
voiced, but the talk was mostly of what other fellows
had done; of "bad men" and shootings. And Master-
son's name was mentioned as having saved the expense
of a lot of hangings by using his six-shooter.
   Plunkett dissented. He was emphatic about it.
   "I tell you what," he said, "that fellow, Bat Master-
son, has killed more innocent men in his day than any-
body else in the United States!"
   Whe.ther the statement was immediately challenged
or not, is not recorded. Masterson had good friends in
that group. A little later, one of them made an excuse
and left the room. He knew where Bat was, and he got
into a hansom and ordered the driver to go there, lick-
ety-split. And he gave a news-hot version of what Plunk-
ett had said.
   Hardly half an hour after the statement had been
made, Masterson in person dramatically appeared at the
main door of the Barroom. One of the men at the table
caught sight of him and jumped up. The others, follow-
ing his gaze, turned. Two or three right hands went to
hips.
   Bat, after halting long enough to achieve sensational
effect, strode straight across to the group. He stopped
at the side of his detractor's chair.
   "Plunkett," he said,""l hear you have been talking
bad about me." With the words, he suddenly dug his
hand between Colonel Dick's neck and collar, shut his
fist, and made as if to pull the other out of his chair.
   Plunkett was conciliatory. "Sit down, Bat," he said;
                         [ 90]
                              Faculty and Proctors
 "sit down and have a quiet drink, and talk things over."
   Then a man on his other side jumped up. "Take your
hands off my friend, Dick Plunkett!" he shouted at
Masterson, at the same time trying to jerk something
from his hip pocket.
   Meantime, the effect upon the crowd had been pan-
icky. Immediately the identity of Masterson had begun
to be whispered about. "That's Bat Masterson," men
told one another. "He'll shoot on sight," some added.
So before Masterson had gr'abbed Plunkett's collar, a
movem!'!nt had starteci',toward the exit-toward all ex-
its, in fact. Men began pouring not only into the exten-
sion of Peacock Alley, but into the Grill Room, and the
emergency lavatory at the southeast corner of the Bar,
past which safety could be gained, was choked by men
who merely wanted to find a quick way out, but missed
the door.
   Joe Smith, at that time chief sleuth of the hotel, had
been sent for at the first sign of trouble. Now he ap-
peared, and began edging his way past the crowd that
was milling to escape.
   Joe heard the name "Bat Masterson," and it was
enough to make him discreet. He did no'f rush up to the
table where the fun was, and with the voice of authority
quell the disturbance and order the disturbers out. As
a matter of fact, Joe found a pillar that looked as if it
might resist anything like gunfire, and hid behind it.
However, s~mebody outside had telephoned the Tender-
loin police station, and three cops appeared. By the time
they arrived, the only live occupants of the room were
Joe and the bartenders. By this time friends had sue-
                          [ 91]
       Old Waldorf Bar Days
 ceeded in convincing the disputants that New York was
  a closed town for shooting just then, and that there were
 better places to settle quarrels than the Waldorf Bar.
    In justice to the ability and services of another, one
 must add that the fame that accrued to Joe Smith was
 more than once a sort of "transferred epithet." On call
 for many years was one of the most efficient detectives
 I have ever known-,--another "Joe." His last name I
 shall not give, because anonymity was one of his most
 effective aids in running down crooks. Often it happened
 that after the world had been told that some thief who
 had plied his trade at the old Waldorf, or had menaced
 one or more of its patrons, had been caught, and thus
 had increased Joe Smith's chest measurement several
 inches, it would be discovered that the other Joe had
 done the work. Several times I protested to the latter,
 and often asked him to let me tell of some of his experi-
 ences- which, I believe, would make some of the thrill-
ers current look like bed-time stories. But this was the
invariable answer:
    "Oh, hell! Joe Smith likes that stuff and I don't. He
pays me; let him have the .credit. Why, if you were to
tell anything about me, it would put a crimp in all my
work."
    And I stilrthink the· anonymous Joe one of the most
effective sleuths that have ever run down hotel pests.
    Sometimes occurred in the room minor disturbances
of a harmless chat'acter, when practical jokers would
select a victim for their fun.
    There was the case of a Mr. Jones- his first name is
lost to fame - who came m one day and innocently
                          [ 92]
                                  Faculty and Proctors
enough fell victim to a straw hat crusade. In downtown
New York and in other parts of the city, custom im-
memorial has decreed that straw hats should not be
worn after the middle of September-a custom foolish,
of course, and which has embarrassed and annoyed
many persons who don't see why anybody has a right
to tell them what they shall wear, or when.

                    "STRAW HAT!"

 It was after the fifteenth-considerably past it, in fact
 -when Jones entered the· room wearing headgear that
 was now on the Index Expurgatorius of local custom. At
 one of the tables sat · ~ group of which "Pete" J. Rogers
 was one. Another was John R. Burton. The straw hat
 immediately attracted the table's attention.
   ''I'll tell you what," said one of the group to Burton,
 "if you go over and take that fellow's hat off and smash
it, I'll give one hundred dollars to the Red Cross."
   Burton got up, went over to the man 'w ith the straw
hat, whom he knew.
   "Mr. J ones, " h e sa1.d, " t h at ' s qmte
                                            . a mce
                                                 . h at. "
   "Do you like it?" Mr. Jones refurned, smiling.
   "Yes," said the othet, grabbing it. Then he rammed
his fist through it.
   Jones, who was a buyer for one of the railroads, im-
mediately got ready to clean out the whole place. It
looked as if there would be a real fight. The men left the
table and gathered around the pair, and offered to give
Jones twenty-five dollars out of the money won for the
Red Cross, in order to calm him down. However, Jones
would not be appeased. He tried to have the m anage-
                          [ 93]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
ment bar Burton from the Bar and from the hotel, or
at least refuse him service. It required all the diplomatic
skill of one of the assistant managers of the hotel, who
was a personal friend, to appease the wrath of the indig-
nant owner of the ruined straw lid.
   "Dan" Reid, organizer of the Tin Plate Trust and
market operator, had the reputation, among the bar-
tenders at least, of drinking more than anybody else,
and getting noisier. When he started talking, it used to
be said he could be heard all over the ground floor. But,
according to memories of habitues of those days, the
patron of the Bar who was apt to give the most trouble
and oftenest was the late James G. Blaine, Jr., son of
a famous Secretary of State and Republican candidate
for the Presidency against Grover Cleveland. Sober, or
with only a few drinks in him, Jim, tall and handsome,
and an inheritor of the great nose his distinguished fa-
ther made famous, was delightful company. But there
                                                              ..
was a point beyond which he could not go in the m atter
of drink, and retain his pleasurable traits. He would say
things that would ruffle somebody's feelings, and at
times become very nasty.
   Another equally known patron of the Bar was "Char-
lie" Flyn.!!, a mining man, tall and handsome, and usu-
ally even-tempered. Flynn was one of the best-dressed
men to be seen there, and had many friends. He was
regarded as an addition to any company.
               a
   But he had good deal of personal dignity and Irish
blood in him would get suddenly warm over any thing
he might regard as an affront to his dignity.
   So it happened one day when he found himself in the
                           [94]
                              Faculty and Proctors
same company at the Bar-side with "Jim" Blaine. Jim
had gone too far in his indulgence and he said something
which Flynn resented. Flynn intimated as much, where-
upon Blaine, who did not realize to whom he was talk-
ing, said something worse. And before he had quite got
it out of his mouth, Flynn's fist had landed under his
chin, and Blaine went down on the floor. There was a
hubbub, of course, but friends intervened, and by the
time the news of the scrap had drawn a crowd from all
parts of the lobby, Blaine had been hustled out; and
except that friends \yere saying, "Charlie, you served 1
him right," and.offering to buy Flynn drinks, the excite-
ment had subsitled. However, for days the story was
told in the Bar with constantly increasing embellish-
ment.
            BATTLE OF THE CHAMPAGNE

By no means was all the liquor consumed in that locality
swallowed in the Bar. Nor was the biggest fight that ever
took place in the hotel staged in that room. That honor
belonged to a great room used as a serving pantry to the
Grand Ballroom on the floor above. And the fracas came
near spoiling the ~.ig banquet given by the New Yorker
Staats Zeitung in honor of Prince Henry of Prussia,
brother of the German Kaiser, _when he came to this
country early in 1902. Long antedating, as it did, the
great struggle between the Germans and the French for
the possession of the champagne country and Rheims
during the Great War, it nevertheless deserves to be
known as the "Battle of the Champagne," for cham-
pagne began it. It was fought in an arena walled with
cases of "Mumm" and "Louis Roederer" and "Porn-
                          [ 95]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
mery," and it was soon followed by the sheer but ac-
cidental destruction of enough sparkling wine to make
a modern prohibition agent jealous. Bootleggers did not
figure in this last episode, but what might be called
"pan ts-leggers" did.
   Among those invited to meet the Kaiser's brother was
almost every important newspaper editor in the whole
country. The pantry was piled high with cases of wine,
and these had been opened ahead of time. One result
was that many waiters had proved unable to resist temp-
tation. And wine sometimes has a way of inflaming na-
tional ardor.
   Every waiter employed by the hotel was on duty, as
was every bellboy on the staff. The former, serving the
various courses, laden with trays, hurried along the hall-
way from the pantry in single file and at fixed distances
apart. And when courses were finished, out they came,
still in a long line, bearing trays of soiled plates and
                                                             ,,
remnants. This went on in military fashion under the
argus eye of the maitre d'hotel, its grand marshal, who
stood near the door of the ball room, with eye and ear
alert for any sign of interruption to the program he had
so carefully planned. Everything moved like clock-work
for a time.
   But all at once the smooth-running wheels stopped.
A sudden halt in 'the steady procession of waiters and
omni buses. Something had gone wrong!
   What had happened was a flare-up of national jeal-
ousies. At that time there were many French as well as
German waiters on the staff of .the hotel, and the former,
 in some cases, undoubtedly cherished memories of the
                          [ 96]
                              Faculty and Proctors
 "lost provinces" and revanche. For the German waiters,
 it was an evening of triumph, just as it was for every
 German and German-American in New York. At this
 distance, one is not able to ascertain just whether the
 Frenchman called the brother of the Kaiser that day's
 equivalent of boche, or whether the German had assumed
 an offensive by vaunting the merits of the guest of the
evening, or of his Imperial brother. Nor is it certain as
 to who struck the first blow. Even at the time, inves-
 tigation failed to establish that fact to the satisfaction
of everybody concerfled. But before anybody else real-
ized what was going .on, Frenchman and German were 1
at each other's. throats, and hammering away at each
other's noses-br wherever untrained fists could find
lodgment on a rival's anatomy.                      '
    But the incident was like the touch of a match, and
when the French combatant shouted, "A moil" and the
German yelled, "Um Gottes Willen!" other Frenchmen
and other German waiters piled in. Italy, represented
also by a good sized portion of those present, tried to
be neutral for a time. But not for long. Its subjects on
the scene soon took a hand~r rather a fist or two-
on one side or th~ ,other, their choice dictated, perhaps,
not so much by considerations of nationality as by per-
sonal friendship. In less time t_l;an it takes to tell, the
whole room was in a furore, with everybody milling
everybody else. The ma'itre d' hOtel, after one glance,
summoned all the house detectives within call and these
jumped in, separated the belligerents and restored
peace. The Prince never knew how nearly his great
banquet had been marred.
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
   Not only waiters but, as it developed later, certain of
the belJhops on duty that night, some of whom were
connoisseurs in the vintages of the time, helped them-
selves freely to the contents of the cases in the pantry
already referred to.
   Now in the snug uniform worn by the Waldorf bellhop
of that period, there was little room to hide a quart of
champagne. Certainly, a tight-fitting blouse could not
conceal an increment of such size. But they were re-
sourceful, were those lads, and they knew the possibil-
ities of a trouser-leg. It proved easy to frisk out a bottle
from its case, raise the side of one's blouse and slide the
bottle down inside the waist-band. Thus laden, an ap-
pearance of unconcern was, so they thought, all that
was necessary.
   However, a steward had kept a sort of check on bot-
tles as they were brought into the banquet rooms, dis-
covered that the cases of champagne were disgorging
their contents at a speed little short of amazing, and the
whole bellboy force of forty youths was lined up for in-
spection. At such times they had to stand like soldiers
-eyes front, hands at sides and heels close together.
   An assistant manager and the head bellboy looked
them over carefully.
   Nothing happened until the two inquisitors had
reached the midc:Ue of the long line. Suddenly, the lad
upon whom their eyes 'w ere bent began to perspire. Then
he gasped. Immediately afterward, a bottle smashed
upon the harcl floor at his feet and a quart of cham-
pagne spread itself in every direction.
   The manager started to grab the bellhop, but even as
                           [ 98]
                              Faculty and Proctors
he stepped toward him a second crash was heard at one
end of the line. Another bottle had slipped from a moor-
ing waist-band and slid down a trouser leg to destruc-
tion. A third followed suit from a boy at the end already
passed. Before the inspection had been finished, no
fewer than ten bottles, in the same fashion, had crashed
their costly contents upon the floor.
                        PART VI

        Concer:n;n.ing the Curriculum
T      HE VISITOR to a New York speakeasy, according to
       report, at least, may lack nothing in abundance or
 supply; but, according to old-timers, he is confronted
 by decided circumscription in variety. If one who knows
were to breathe to those speakeasy dis'p ensers of dread-
 ful, if not dreaded, drinks that mask under names that
were once guarantees of superior content, and harmless,
if potent, accelerators of appetite and good feeling-
taken in moderation-;--;-some figure~ ?-Swell as facts about
the quality and variety of alcoholic dispensation at the
old Waldorf in its real prime, he ...would probably be
greeted by a scouting or scornful, "Aw, what are ya
givin' me?" And if you were to tell almost anybody who
hasn't the facts before him the number of kinds of fancy
drinks those veteran Waldorf barmen knew how to con-
coct, and did concoct, they would put you down as a
liar and probably say it aloud. Well, certain of those
bartenders knew how to make, and did make, two hun-
dred and seventy-one different kinds of cocktails. They
                          (IOI)
     Old Waldorf Bar Days
knew how to compose, and did compose, four hundred
and ninety-one different kinds of mixed drinks.
  Those two hundred and seventy-one varieties of what
was once the great American drink, one which carried
the name of our people all over the world; those over
four hundred more varieties of picklers than the most
ambitious American pickler of his age was ever able to
advertise--and which pickled more people-deserve, if
by name only, to live in history. For their nomenclature
belongs to it. It is not only part of our chronicles as a
nation, but an index to certain social, industrial and ar-
tistic achievements of an age.
   Brushing aside such mythological, ornithological, eth-
nological, zoological, or otherwise "logical" designations
as Adonis, Bird, Bridal, Bishop Poker, Creole, Goat's
Delight, Gloom Lifter and Hoptoad, which name only
a few kinds of cocktails that used to be served in the
old Waldorf Bar, consider just a few that betray less
of fancy and originality, but perhaps more of cause of
on gm.
  For example, take the Armour, called after a well-
known Chicago patron of the establishment. Then there
was a Beadleston, named after another customer who
sold the Bar much of the beer he brewed, and after whom
was baptized a second cocktail, the Beadleston No. 2.
Speaking still alphabetically, there was a Bunyan, spelled
with an "a," not an "o," and summoning up thoughts
of a thirsty pilgrim's progress to a land of never-never-
thirst. A "Chauncey" must have been named after the
most distinguished person of that prenomen, a famous
orator and wit. There is no record that its namesake was
                          [ 102]
                        Concerning the Curriculum
present at its christening. Nor is there evidence that the
originator of a celebrated march upon Washington
graced the birth of the Coxey cocktail. The Dorflinger
got its name from a glass manufacturer who sold the
Waldorf much of the glassware used in its Bar.
   For the creation of the Eddy, I may predicate at once
that no scientific lady of that name was responsible; I
am inclined to attribute its origin to a popular and hand-
some young diplomatist of the early part of the century
who married an heiress and went into eclipse. And surely
one would not think of attributing the Hearst cocktail
to any personal interest on the part of a great newspaper
proprietor; rather to certain of his staff who were in the
habit of dropping in at odd times when assign.e d to a
story in the neighborhood of what was then Herald
Square.
   And there was McKinley's Delight. Just why it was
McKinley's delight, I am unable to ascertain. The
chances are that President McKinley never found out
whether it was or not. In its favor, I may mention that
the Bar was a great hangout for the G.O.P.'s of yester-
year, who may have passed their emotion for their can-
didates across the counter for the barkeep to translate
into terms of liquid intensity.
   The Waldorf Bar served a Racquet Club, a Riding
Club and a Union League Club cocktail, thus honoring
certain social and representative New York institutions.
But who the "Mrs. Thompson" was, .whose name was
bestowed upon one qf its cocktails, frankly, I do not
know. Nor do I know just what state of spiritual or spir-
ituous elevation, or on whose part, suggested the chris-
                          [ 103]
     Old Waldorf Bar Days
tening of the St. Francis or the St. Peter or the St. John,
though the first may have been called after a California
hotel, and not after a friar long deceased.
   And those drinks went further tha n St. Peter, and
spelled sacrilege, though I do know persons whose fam-
ily name is Christ. This was the content of wh a t was
described as a "Christ" cocktail, and which I prefer to
believe was named after some mundane materi alist who
may have needed something spiritual, but got only as
far as the spirituous. It began harmlessly enough. First
there was the juice of half a Lemon; then came a half a
spoonful of Sugar, followed by a pony of Raspberry
Syrup, and then a quarter of a pony of White of a n Egg.
Here the Tempter came in, and took the form of a jigger
of Gin.
   The stage, whether or not it drove men to drink in
those days, certainly inspired much drinking, and suc-
cessful plays often stood godfather for bartenders' con-
ceptions. The great success of "Rosemary," with which
John Drew and one of Charles Frohman's best com-
panies helped open the Astoria part of the big hotel, was
celebrated in a cocktail of the same name, composed
of equal parts of Vermuth and Bourbon. The tuneful
"Merry Widow" and the almost equally whistleable
"Chocolate Soldier" were drowned in baptismal cock-
tails at the Waldorf Bar. The Merry Widow cocktail was
made of half French Vermuth and half Dubonnet; the
Chocolate Soldier, an appropriately stronger potation,
was composed of one-third Dubonnet, two-thirds Nich-
olson Gin and a dash of Lime Juice. "Peg o' My Heart"
and "Rob Roy" named other cocktails. "Trilby" had
                         [ 104]
                         Concerning the Curriculum
been drunk back in the days of the Waldorf sit-down
Bar. In compliment to the locale of the play, the Trilby
cocktail was made of one-third French Vermuth and
two-thirds Old Tom Gin, with dashes of Orange Bitters
and Creme Yvette. "Salome," when it came to the Met-
ropolitan Opera House, had its success celebrated in a
way that might have made Strauss weep for his seidel
or his stein of Pilsner. With its two dashes of Absinthe,
cementing half portions ofltalian Vermuth and Dubon-
net, it lacked German authorship, but certainly nothing
in authority. Mrs. Leslie Carter must have heard, when
she helped put Mr. Belasco large on the theatrical map,
that "Zaza" made one of its biggest hits in the form of
an invention of a Waldorf barman. The Zaza cocktail
was somewhat milder than the Salome, for only one-
third of its content was Old Tom Gin, that being allied
with two-thirds Dubonnet and two dashes of Orange
Bitters. And Charlie Chaplin had a cocktail named in
his honor when he began to make the screen public laugh.

    Bro EVENTS SPIRITUOUSLY MEMORIALIZED
In those days every big or spectacular event claimed its
appropriate honorification at the hands of those Waldorf
dispensers of drink. For example, the first composition
of the Arctic cocktail celebrated Peary's discovery of the
North Pole-or where it ought to be; the Doctor Cook
cocktail proclaimed the exposure of a celebrated polar
faker whose very entrails Peary once confessed to me
personally, in effect, he hated; the invention of the Cor-
onation cocktail was anticipative of the ten minutes' rest
the late King Edward got when they sat him on the
                          [ 105]
      Old Waldorf Bar Day s
Stone of Scone. The Fin de Siecle came toward the end
of the century, when the expression became current in
magazines and newspapers, and when lots of Americans
were taking their first steps in French. What they said
when they meant to order such a cocktail is another
matter.
   Why, you can date many American historical, society,
sporting, police and other events by those cocktails
when you know the names. There was the Third Degree,
invented when everybody in New York was interested
in the way tough cops were extracting information from
accused persons. Probably it left its imbiber in a state
similar to that of the victim of a police inquisition.
Added to one-eighth French V erm u th, it consisted of
seven-eighths Plymouth Gin, with several dashes of Ab-
sinthe. The Good Times cocktail was reminiscent of the
socially important coach that once ran from the Wal-
dorf doorway to the Woodmansten Inn. The Jitney com-
plimented an invention of a Detroit gentleman which
was found adaptable to take the place of trolley cars
when drivers and conductors went on strike. It may be
particularly interesting to that inventor to learn that it
was composed of one-half Gin, one-fourth Lemon, one-
fourth Orange Juice-and a little Sugar. Then there was
the Marconi Wireless; which first sprang across the Bar
of the Waldorf when the ancestor of the radio began to
raise its ghostly voice; and the Prince Henry, concocted
 to celebrate the arrival of the once-distinguished Kai-
ser's apostolic brother, who was dined and wined pro-
digiously in the hotel's grand ballroom just above the
 Barroom.
                          [ 106]
                         Concerning the Curriculum
    Cocktails by the names of Futurity, Suburban, and
 so on, celebrated the triumphs of James R. Keene and
 his racing cohorts and other famous stable-owners on
 near-by courses. A famous picture of a naked girl in the
 waves, sold under the name of "September Morii," was
 perpetuated-at least it was so thought-by a Waldorf
 cocktail. However, that cocktail was not a brand-new
 composition-;simply a Clover Club cocktail in which
Gin gave place to Bacardi Rum; the real Clover Club
 being composed of the juice of half a Lemon, half a tea-
spoonful of Sugar,,half a pony of Raspberry Syrup, one-
quarter of a pony White of an Egg, and a jigger of Gin.
   The Spanish-American War produced distinctive
drink nomenclature. The guns of Santiago awakened re-
verberation in the Waldorf Bar, and shook up what was
termed a Santiago Sour-not, however, strictly a cock-
tail; no more was Robson's Kiss, reminiscent of an epi-
sode that, alas! served to discredit the herq of the Merri-
mac. Then there was a Schley punch, a Shafter cocktail,
and another which took its name-from Admiral Dewey,
victor at Manila Bay:.,              _
   And when these are named, one has not really begun
on the list of appetizers available tG those who resorted
at regular times to what was long the most famous ex-
positor of the American School of Drinking. As I have
said, their nomenclature deserves to live in history, of
which it is a part. More, if only to clarify that portion
of history with data furnishing contributory evidence--
if further proof is impossible-their composition is im-
portant to the. historian, and some day will so prove to
the antiquarian, who will no doubt find material for
                          [ 107]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
study and zealous contemplation, if not amazement, in
the fact that men once were able, year after year, to get
outside so m any kinds of more or less ardent spirit, and
in such quantity, and still survive. Well, they didn't all
survive. They made patients for the specialists at Carls-
bad and other European cure resorts, and in many cases
quit this sphere when still in their prime. But when all
is said, the searcher for prehistoric man, for ancestors
of much greater stature, may halt when he reads of the
exploits of the exponents of the American School of
Drinking, point to the record, scratch his head, and say:
"There were giants in those days." And others will draw
a moral.
                  "DAN, TH E B A RBOY"

With this prefatory tribute to certain accomplishments
of the long-departed School of American Drinking, I in-
troduce a member of its faculty, who for twenty-three
years of its history wielded a wide influence upon a good-
sized portion of the American public. Or if he did not
directly exert that influence, he at least mi,xed the drinks
that did the wielding, and handed them over. But first
let me describe the volume in which he kept the curricu-
lum, as it were, and whose contents will later be spread.
   It is a leather-bound volume, its edges brown and its
pages dog-eared from frequent use. For no one man
could keep all its inf0rll1;ation in his head. Briefly speak-
ing, it is a compendium of recipes for making all sorts
of hard thirst-quenchers-a cyclopedia of directions for
composing almost every kind of fancy drink served in
 the old W aldorf-Astoria Bar. T o m ake these of more
 value to the historian and the student of the mores of
                           [ 108]
                         Concerning the Curriculum
other days, they have been decoded, rearranged and
more or less classified.
   The compiler of that original volume was Joseph Tay-
lor, for many years, under the sobriquet of "Dan, the
Barbey," one of the dozen or so experts required to staff
that Bar when business was brisk. Taylor, who had been
a personage of note-at least he had been in the public
eye-went into comparative obscurity when the Eigh-
teenth Amendment took away his occupation, and in
the last decade of the old hostelry's existence, instead of
spending his days saying, "Yours, sir?" and, after the
performance of certain· rites, passing artistically com-
posed appetizers a,nd exhilarators over the bar to stock-
brokers and financial and industrial magnates, to pro-
fessional men and students and the flotsam and jetsam
for whom these bought drinks; instead of hearing the
chatter of big business and the hum of what was often
very informative conversation-abounding in hints as
to how to make money on a turn of th~ market-instead
of all this, he had descended to the wine cellar and the
rather obscure title of "assistant in the beverage depart-
ment" of the hotel, handling such elevating and stimula-
tive potations as ginger ale and soda water. Only upon
certain starred occasions did the old bar horse find in
his nostrils the strong, familiar odors that made mem-
ories gush back.
   To his immediate boss, the steward of his department,
were intrusted the keys of the innermost cellars where
reposed a good deal of the rare pre-war stock acquired
by the owners of the hotel in 1918, when they took over
its operating company from the George C. Boldt estate;
                          [ 109]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
but when one of those who shared that cellar had pro-
grammed a party, Taylor had to help get out the booze
and start it on its discreet way to the scene of the fes-
tivity. No need to excite the police unduly. They might
be embarrassed if a court ordered them to return liquor
that, in the eyes of the law, was inviolate, but which
they might ignorantly have smashed or disposed of just
as if it were ordinary bootleg stuff.
   On the other hand, the prompt and safe arrival of the
liquor would often make the party, and the host must
not be embarrassed by its lack. So, despite the under-
ground character of his job and at times of his methods,
Taylor's last job at the Waldorf was not without its
responsibilities.
   The reason for the sacerdotal alias of this former
priest of Bacchus during more than two-thirds of the
thirty-three years he worked in the Waldorf lay in the
disinclination of Phil Kennedy, his principal and the
boss bartender, to address as many as two of his sub-
ordinates as "Joe." On the Bar staff, when Taylor ap-
plied for a job, back in I 894, was already one man with
the front name of Joseph. So Kennedy, an autocrat in
his day and way, said to the recruit:
   "It's Joe you're named, is it? Faith and I won't be
calling 'Joe' and having two men quit their work when
I want only one tQ, come. From now on you're 'Dan,'
d'ye hear?" and Joe became Dan, and so remained until
the old hotel went out of business.
   The book Tay.Jar compiled proved such an eye-opener
when I looked through it, I spent a week testing the
memories of friends who had prided themselves, either
                         ( IIO]
                         Concerning the Curriculum
 upon their knowledge of drinks in the making, or else
 upon their piscatorial prowess when it came to absorb-
 ing the same. I put this question to a score or more,
 many of whom were reputed to "drink like a fish":
    "Leaving out plain Scotch, rye, gin, beer and simple
 alcoholic drinks of whatever sort, how many kinds of
 mixed drinks would you say there are?"
   In no case did the answer reach beyond fifty. And the
 highest enumeration of cocktails was twenty-five. That
gave me a clue to the state of ignorance as to manners
and conditions of an c;tge just a little more than a decad~
gone, which, considering that those men were supposed
 to be experts in - ~heir way, must be widespread. Such ig-
norance is due fdr correction. And follow exhibits which
multiply more than ten times the highest cocktail
guesses of men supposed to know.
   As the vulgate has it, "Read 'em and weep!" Not for
the drinks that have gone, perhaps, but in envy of those
who could compass such stuff and ca'r ry on, as the Eng-
lish put it. That they carried on, in the American sense,
is a matter of record.
   It is also a matter of record -that many of them have
been carried on. Awl the stern moralist might consider
what follows as their epitaphs.
   "Other times, other customs,'.~ runs the saw. And
some would add that other, beginning, "De gustibus."
After all, the verdict belongs to posterity. We are too
near the casualty list to pronounce final judgment. The
"facts" subjoined speak loud, and in reading, one may
almost detect the odors of those other times and those
other customs. But the taste--no !
                          [ I I I )
                       PART VII

     Drunk at the Old Waldorf Bar
F   OR THE convenience of students of the cultural his-
     tory and mores of the American people, to whom the
significance of the names, if not their composition, may
furnish material for research, the bibulous concoctions
long known and served at the Bar of the 'old Waldorf
have been arranged alphabetically, and in two classes.
The cocktails have been set down in one list and the
others, which might be classed as "beverages," though
that title might be open ·llo dispute, have been termed
"Fancy Potations and Otherwise."
   Were this a book of instruction, some discussion of
ways and means, which might be of value, would per-
haps not be out of order-particularly the latter. That
would involve further classification, as well. But one
believes that sufficient has been said in Part I to stim-
ulate earnest seekers into wherefores and hows up to
tracing the origins of many of the names, and assigning
them to their historical periods. As for effects-well, one
who glances carefully over the lists will discover that
                          [IIJ]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
the number of non-alcoholic recipes is not insignificant,
and that before prohibition days cocktails were dis-
pensed that contained not the slightest trace of alcohol.
   Those non-alcoholic prescriptions, we are told on what
seems good authority, are the only recipes that can be
tested in this country to-day, for one of two reasons-
or both. It is left to the reader to pick out the compo-
sitions that conform. Should he wish to test the others,
with safety to his person and his liberty, he is advised
to do his experimenting in some other country .




             .....
                      Cocktails*
ABSINTHE           Two dashes of Gin
                   Two-thirds Absinthe
                   One-third Water
                   Stir; strain
ADIRONDACK
     Rugged, like its namesake. So rugged, indeed, it still sur-
  vives. It is one of the few cocktail recipes now widely known
  and followed in this cou~try, so one hears. But most who
  make it and drink it don't.know its original name.
     Yet one may be doing another cocktail an injustice. The
  recipe for the Adfrpndack specified Gordon Gin, a par-
  ticular gin. If the reader turns to Orange Blossom No. 2, he
  will find the recipe a replica of the Adirondack, with the
  exception of the particular gin. In the Orange Blossom, the
  recipe just calls for "Gin." As most people who use Gin these
  days don't seem to be particular, and the Gin doesn't seem
  to care what it is, in the interest of accuracy it should be
  said that perhaps it is the Orange Blossom No. 2 that sur-
  vives. But how many persons who have accepted Orange
  Blossoms are aware they are drinking a misnomer!
                      One-half Orange Juice
                      One-half Gordon Gin
                      Frappe
ADONIS
   Named in honor of a theatrical offering which made at
 least two persons famous. One was Henry E. Dixey, a
 handsome and talented actor, long on Broadway; the other

*Explanation or exposition of names of recipes starred has
been given earlier in the book. No effort has been made to
compile an encyclopedia, the author believing that research
specialists interested in American mores would appreciate be-
ing left a little wet virgin territory of their own.

                            [II 5)
       Old Waldotf Bar Days

  was Fanny Ward. Yes, Fanny Ward! One doesn't see as
  much of Fanny these days as one did when she played
  Cupid-speaking literally, that is, for Fanny in the play
  was Cupid. Fanny discovered England late in the last cen-
  tury, , married a South African millionaire and had a
  bijou house in Berkeley Square. Her daughter married a
  peer. She herself is now teaching Paris, London and New
  York-and even Hollywood-that sixty years means noth-
  ing, if you know what to do.
                    Two dashes Orange Bitters
                    One-half Sherry
                    One-halfltalian Vermuth
                    Stir

ALASKA              Dash of Orange Bitters
                    One-third Yellow Chartreuse
                    Two-thirds Tom Gin

ALEXANDER           One-third Gin
                    One-third Creme de Cacao
                    One-third Cream
                    Frappe
ALL RIGHT
   Popular among those who wanted quick results.
                One-fifth Italian Vermuth
                Four-fifths Nicholson Gin
                Frappe, and serve with piece of Orange
                  Peel in glass
ALPHONSE
    It was a famous cartoonist who was responsible for a
 series of comics that ran in newspapers some thirty years
 ago, l>ased upon trac;l.itional French politeness. "After you,
 my dear Gaston," "After you, my dear Alphonse," was the
 text or tenor of the captions, with the result .that neither
 got past the door, or whatever it was. Some barman was a
                            [ II6)
                                             Cocktails

  fan for that cartoonist, and perpetuated a theme that made
  the latter a fortune--at least "perpetuated" until prohi-
  bition came.
                    One-third Creme de Cacao
                    One-third Dry Gin
                    One-third Cream
                    Frappe

AMARANTH
    Evidently its godfather· was a sentimentalist who liked
 flowers.                    ·
                  One dash Angostura Bitters
                  Twb..thirds jigger Whiskey
                  Stir; strain; fill from siphon; add a little
                    powdered Sugar; serve while foaming.

AMMONIA
  Considered a cure, rather than a cause.
                Five drops Aromatic Spirits Ammonia
                One jigger Water
                Stir; strain

                                       -
AMPERSAND          Two dashes Orange Bitters
                   One-third Brandy
                   One-third Tom Gin
                   One-third Italian Vermuth
                   Stir; strain; two dashes of Cura~ao
                     on top


ARCTIC*            Dash of Orange Bitters
                   One-half Red Calisaya Bark
                   One-half Sloe Gin
                   Stir; strain
                           ( I 17)
AMSTERDAM          One-third Vermuth (French or Italian)
                   Dash Orange Bitters
                   Two-thirds Nicholson's Gin
                   Stir
                   Lemon Peel, squeezed on top
ARDSLEY
    Residents of a famous and wealthy community up the
 Hudson, by that name, furnished a good deal of patronage
 to the Bar.
                  Dash of Orange Bitters
                  One-half Red Calisaya
                  One-half Sloe Gin
                  Frappe; strain

ARMOUR*            Two dashes Orange Bitters
                   One-half jigger Sherry
                   One-half jigger I tali an Vermuth
                   Stir; strain
ASTORIA
   After the big anhex to the old Waldorf, which at its
 opening, in I 897, became the main part of the establishment.
                    Tw~ dashes Orange Bitters
                    One-third Tom Gin
                    Two-thirds French Vermuth
                    Stir
                           ( II8]
                                             Cocktails

ASTOR
   Perhaps after John Jacob of that name; perhaps after
 William Waldorf, his cousin; however, chances are, it was
 originated either at the old Astor House or the Astor Hotel,
 and took its name from its bar of nativity.
                   One dash of Lemon Juice
                 · One dash of Orange Juice
                   Pne jigger of Gin
                   One jigger of Swedish Punsch

BACARDI
   So designated becaia.se its chief component, originally the
 distillation of the juice of Cuban sugar cane, was called by
 that name-and probably is still so termed.
                    Two jiggers Bacardi Rum
                    Two Limes
                    A little Sugar
                    A little Grenadine
                    Shake well in crushed Ice

BACARDI No. 2      (claret glass)
                   Juice of one Lime
                   One-half spoonful Sugar
                   A drink of Bacardi Rum
                   A little Pineapple Juice
                   Shake well and pour into cup champagne
                     glass, filled with shaved Ice

BACO               (whiskey glass)
                   Dash of Orange Bitters
                   One-quarter Italian Vermuth
                   One-quarter French Vermuth
                   One-half Gordon Gin
                   Slice of Orange Peel, old-fashioned style
                           ( II9 J
      Old Waldorf Bar Days

BALLANTINE
   A brewer who was a Bar patron, gave this his name.
                Two dashes Orange Bitters
                One-half jigger French Vermuth
                One-half jigger Plymouth Gin
                One dash Absinthe
                Frappe

BAMBOO            Two dashes Orange Bitters
                  One-half Sherry
                  One-half French Vermuth
                  Stir; strain

BEAD LESTON* Two dashes Orange Bitters
             One-half jigger French Vermuth
             One-half jigger Private Stock Whiskey
             Stir

BEADLESTONNo. 2*
            One-half French Vermuth
           One-half Haig & Haig Scotch Whiskey
           Frappe

BIJOU
    From the theatre of that name, in Broadway, a few
  blocks awa y, though certain connoisseurs were strong for
  the French term that was synonymous with jewel. They
  said it tasted like a jewel looked. The nativity of its two
  principal components lent authority to the drink, if not to
  their contention ..
                   Two dashes Orange Bitters
                   One-half French Vermuth
                   One-half Grand Marnier
                   Stir
                           [ 120]
                                             Cocktails




BIRD
     So named by the pe~son on whom it was first tried.
  "That's a bird!" he exclaimed, smacking his lips. And
  "Bird" was added. to cocktail nomenclature.
                     Twist two pieces Orange peel
                     Fill glass with fine Ice
                     Two-third Triple Sec Curac;ao
                     One-third Brandy
                     Two more Twisted Orange peels
                     Serve as Creme de Menthe Frappe
BISHOP POKER
     Unfortunately for the origin of this name, poker is a word
  with several definitions. At one time it was an instrument
  familiar in every household and used for stirring up the fire
  and, occasionally, played a decisive part in domestic dis-
  putes, being the first resort of the Yankee housewife in an
  effort to establish authority over a husband who complained
  of the cooking. Now it is sacred to what was once America's
  great national indoor game. As for "Bishop", of course,
  prelates of that name do not drink-at least are not sup-
  posed to. On the other hand, there used to be a number of
  men by the name of Bishop who, in the Waldorf Bar, some-
  times gave evidence that they did.                       ·
                     One-third French Vermuth
                     One-third Italian Vermuth
                     One-third Plymouth Gin
                     Frappe
                     Dash of Amer Picon Bitters
                           [ 121 ]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days

BLACK              Two-thirds Italian Vermuth
                   One-third Tom Gin
BLACKTHORN
   Of Irish inception, "Blackthorn" is synonymous with
 shillalah, the native Celt's walking-stick, used also from
 primitive days as a weapon of offense and defense. It is cut
 from the blackthorn bush. The fact that one of its essentials
 was Sloe Gin, a distillation of the fruit of the blackthorn,
 gave authority to the drink and to its derivation as well.
                   Two dashes Orange Bitters
                   One-third Italian Vermuth
                   Two-thirds Sloe Gin
                   Stir
BRADFORD
   Not called after a celebrated Pilgrim Father, but after a
 town in Pennsylvania, whose name was often heard in the
 Bar because E. E. Smathers, one of its well known patrons,
 earlier mentioned, came from Bradford, or thereabouts.
                   Two dashes Orange Bitters
                   One-halfltalian Vermuth
                   One-half Tom Gin
                   Twist Lemon Peel on top

BRANDY             One dash Angostura Bitters
                   One dash Gin
                   One jigger Brandy
                   Stir
BRIDAL             Two dashes Orange Bitters
                   Dash of Maraschino
                   One-third jigger Italian Vermuth
                   Two-tliirds Plymouth Gin
                   Stir; strain
                   One pie~e Orange Peel, twisted, thrown in
                     glass
                            [ 122]




                                                                 -   J
                                            Cocktails

BRANDY CRUSTA
   Origin of name obscure, but a favorite beverage of Uncle
 "Billie" Oliver, a good patron of the Bar who, besides being
 a gallant drinker, was during business hours a stock-broker.
                   Cup one-half small Lemon
                   Put in cocktail glass
                   Dip edge of glass in powdered Sugar
                   In mixing glass put two dashes Angostura
                      Bitters
                   Four drops Lemon Juice
                   Two dashes Cura~ao
                   Jigger Brandy ·
                   Stir well,; strain


BRANT              Two dashes Angostura Bitters
                   One-quarter White Mint
                   Three-quarters Brandy
                   Stir; strain
                   One piece of Lemon Peel on top'

BRIGHTON
   So called from the race course near Brighton Beach,
 where many Bar habitues spent their afternoons when that
 track topped the racing calendar.
                  Dash of Orange Bitters
                 One-half Tom Gin
                 One-halfltalian Vermuth
                 Stir


BROWN              Two dashes Orange Bitters
                   One-half French Vermuth
                   One-half Whiskey
                   Frappe
                           [ 123]
      Old Waldotf Bar Days
BRONX
   The name of a meandering river and a borough familiar
 in NewYork geography, but, as told elsewhere, the cocktail
 was called after the Bronx "Zoo." Many Vflriations' of the
 original recipe have become current.
                   One-fourth Italian Vermuth
                   One-fourth French Vermuth
                   One-half Gordon Gin
                   Frappe with piece of Orange Peel
    While the above is the recipe that has come down in the
 book, it is not the original Bronx, as it was invented by
 Johnnie Solon. As earlier mentioned, that was composed of
 one-third Orange Juice, two-thirds Gin, and a dash of
 Italian and French Vermuth.


BRUT
   An extremely "dry" cocktail. "Brut," the French word,
 means "raw." Many of its customers used to pronounce it
 "Brute." That's what some thought it was.
                 Two dashes Orange Bitters
                 One-half French Vermuth
                 One-half Calisaya
                 One dash Absinthe
                 Frappe

BUNYAN*           Gordon Gin
                  Frappe
                  No Bitters
                  One Olive
                  Carbonic on side

CALISAYA          Two dashes Orange Bitters
                  One j~gger Calisaya
                  Stir; strain
                          [ 124]
                                            Cocktails

CHAMP.A GNE · One lump Sugar
              Two dashes Angostura Bitters .
              One piece Lemon Peel, twisted in glass
CHANLER
    Several members of the well known Chanler family were
 among the patrons of the Bar. Solon thinks this was
 named after "Sheriff Bob" Chanler, the artist, whose matri-
 monial adventure with Mme. Lina Cavalieri, formerly of
 the Metropolitan Opera, was a sensational episode of the
 first decade of the century. "Bob" knew all the Waldorf
 bartenders by their first na.mes.
                  One small piece of Ice in mixing glass
                  Sq~eeze one piece of Lemon Peel
                  One-third Italian Vermuth
                  Two-thirds Old Tom Gin
                  Frappe; pour in whiskey glass

CHAUNCEY*         Dash of Orange Bitters
                  One-fourth Tom Gin
                  One-fourth Whiskey
                  One-fourth Italian Vermuth
                  One-fourth Brandy
                  St1r; strain       -

CHOCOLATE         (claret glass)
                  One pony yellow Chartreuse
                  One pony Maraschino
                  Yolk of one Egg    ·
                  Shake well; strain

CHOCOLATE SOLDIER*
            One-third Dubonnet
            Two-thirds Nicholson's Gin
            Dash of Lime Juice
            Frappe
                          [ 125]
           Old Waldorf Bar Days




                     ~
           \~~r~ CHANTICLEER
.
       Invention of the Chanticleer celebrated the opening in
     New York of Edmond Rostand's play, Chanticler.
                     One-half Orange Gin
                     One-half French Vermuth
                     White of one Egg
                     Frappe
                     (Add a cock's comb if desired) t

CHRIST*                  Two dashes Orange Bitters
                         One-half Plymouth Gin
                         One-halfltalian Vermuth
                         Two slices Orange Peel
                         Frappe

CIDER (Collins glass)
                  Two dashes Angostura Bitters
                ' Whole Lemon Peel
                  One lump Ice
                  One pint Cider
                  Stir

    CLUB                 Dash·of Angostura Bitters
                         One-third Italian Vermuth
                         Two-thirds Plymouth Gin
                         Stir .
    t See Glossary
                                 [ 126]
                                             Cocktails

CHARLIE ROSE One pony Brandy
             Slice of Lemon placed on top

CLOVER CLUB
   A Philadelphia importation, originated, it is said, in the
 bar of the old Bellevue-Stratford, where the Clover Club,
 composed of literary, legal, financial and business lights of
 the Quaker City, often dined and wined, and wined again.
                  (star glass)
                  Juice one-half Lemon
                  One-half spoon Sugar
                  One-h.alf pony Raspberry
                  One-fourth pony White of Egg
                  One jigger Gin
                  Shake well; strain

COMMODORE
    Named, according to Solon, after a man who was ranking
 officer either of the New York Yacht Club or the Larch-
 mont Yacht Club. Anyhow, as there were two Commodore
 cocktails, there were enough to go around.
                    One-half teaspoon Sugar
                    One dash Lemon Juice
                    White of one Egg
                    One drink of Bacardi Rum
                    One dash of Grenadine --
                    One dash of Raspberry Syrup
                    Frappe

COMMODORE No. 2
           One-third Lemon Juice
           One-third Bourbon Whiskey
           One-third Creme de Cacao
           Dash Grenadine Syrup
           Frappe in champagne glass
                           [ 127]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days




                  CHARLIE CHAPLIN*
                  One-third Lime Juice
                  One-third Sloe Gin
                  One-third Apricot Brandy


COLONIAL          Dash of Orange Bitters
                  Two-thirds Plymouth Gin
                  One-third Red Calisaya
                  Stir; strain


COFFEE            (claret glass)
                  Two ponies Port Wine
                  One pony Brandy
                  Yolk of one Egg
                  One-half spoon Sugar
                  Shake; strain


COOPERSTOWN
   In its early days, the Bar used to draw a lot of young
 sportsmen from what is said to be the richest and prettiest
 town up-State. Among them was Craig Wadsworth, who
 later took up' diplomacy, and who was in his day one of the
 best types of thorough-going American sportsmen. The
 cocktajl was named in compliment to him and his friends.
                    Bronx, with Mint
                    Frappe
                           [ 128]
                                             Cocktails

CORA MIDDLETON
                (claret glass)
                Clover Club made with Jamaica Rum
                   instead of Bacardi
CORNELL
   A compliment to an institution at Ithaca, many of whose
 alumni-mining engineers a.nd others-used it to toast
 Alma Mater.
                One-half French Vermuth
                One-half Gordon Gin
                Frappe ·

CORONATION* One-t hird Italian Vermuth
            One-third French Vermuth
            One-third Apple-jack
            One dash Apricot Liqueur

COXEY*            Dash of Amer Picon Bitters
                  One-half Italian Vermuth
                  One-half Plymouth Gin
                  Stir; strain

CREOLE            Dash of Orange Bitters
                  One-thir,d jigger Absinthe
                  One-third jigger I tali an Ver mu th
                  Frappe

CRISS RACQUET CLUB
             Dash of Orange Bitters
             One-half French Vermu th
             One-half Plymouth Gin
             Frappe with an Orange Peel
CROOK             Dash of Orange Bitters
                  One-third Absinthe
                  Two-thirds Italian Vermuth
                  Frappe
                           [ 129]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days

DANIEL DE ROUGE
                 Orange Bitters
                 One-half Tom Gin
                 One-half Red Calisaya
                 Stir
DEFENDER
   The name of an American yacht which took care of one of
 Sir Thomas Lipton's early but seemingly endless "Sham-
 rocks."
                 Dash of Orange Bitters
                 One-half Tom Gin
                 One-halfltalian Vermuth
                 Two dashes Creme Yvette
                 Stir
DELATOUR
   After a manufacturer of soda water, whose wares-if you
 call water "wares" (it does wear)-were dispensed in the
 Bar.
                 One-third Italian Vermuth
                 Two-thirds Gordon Gin
                 Two dashes Orange Bitters
                 Frappe and twist Orange Peel in glass
DELMONICO
   Adopted from the bar of Delmonico's, a long-famous
 New York restaurant.
                 Dash of Orange Bitters
                 One-half French Vermuth
                 One-ha1f Plymouth Gin
                 Two slices Orange Peel
                 Frappe
DEWEY*            Dash of Orange Bitters
                  One-half Plymouth Gin
                  One-half French Vermuth
                  Frappe
                          [ 130]
DR.COOK*        (claret gla~s)
                Juice one-half Lemon
                White of one Egg
                Two dashes Maraschino
                Three-fourths Gin
                F rappe'       I




DOCTOR          One-half Lime Juice
                One-half Swedish Punsch
                Frappe
                                                 ,,
DORFLINGER * Dash of Orange Bitters
             One-third Green Absinthe
             Two-thirds Plymouth Gin
             Frappe

DOWD            No Bitters
                One-halfltalian Vermuth
                One-half Gordon Gin
                Frappe
DOWN
   Erin-go-bragh! What else, in faith, than a county m
 Ireland-ancient home of many American bartenders?
                  Dash of Orange Bitters
                  One-third Italian Vermuth
                  Two-thirds Gordon Gin
                  Frappe well; serve with an Olive
                       [ IJ I ]
       Old Waldorf Bar Days

DUCHESS            Dash of Orange Bitters
                   One-third Absinthe
                   One-third French Vermuth
                   One-third Italian Vermuth
                   Frappe
DUKE               Dash of Orange Bitters
                   Two dashes, each of Absinthe and
                     Anisette
                   One jigger French Vermuth
                   Frappe
DUPLEX
    Parent of the original Bronx. Johnnie Solon, inventor of
 the latter, was making a Duplex, as earlier told, when he
 was challenged to create a new cocktail, and evolved the
 Bronx.
                   Two dashes Orange Bitters, or two
                     squeezes of Orange Peel
                   One-halfltalian Vermuth
                   One-half French Vermuth
DORLANDO
   After a marathon runner in the Olympic games in Lon-
 don in 1908. Dorlando made a good fight. He arrived at the
 stadium in Shepherd's Bush before Johnnie Hayes, the
 American winner of the event, but fell several times in at-
 tempting to complete the necessary circuit of the course, was
 helped to his feet by sympathetic Englishmen and actually
 pushed across the line. The Italian flag was raised, to the
 great indignation of Americans present, and had to be low-
 ered. The incident made a lot of talk at the time in several
 countries.
                   Same as.Daniel de Rouge
EASY               Dash of Orange Bitters
                   One-eighth Italian Vermuth
                   Seven-eighths Booth's Gin
                   Shake; strain
                           [ 132]
                                             Cocktails

EDDY*              One-third Gordon Gin
                   One-third French Vermuth
                   One-third Orange Juice
                   Frappe
EMERALD
  A tribute to Erin's Isle.
                Dash of Orange Bitters
                One-half Italian Vermuth
                One-half Irish Whiskey
                Stir           ,

EMERSON                       I
    The Emerson Cocktail was not so called out of compli-
 ment to the Sage of Concord, who passed on ignorant that
 another of the name would one day arise to discover or in-
 vent a more potent remedy for the world's ills-or at least
 one of them-than a lifetime's philosophic utterances.Nay,
 it would not be mere guesswork to suggest that the profits
 of just one year's sales of Isaac L. Emerson's headache cure
 far exceeded the sum of the royalties received by Ralph
 Waldo Emerson during his lifetime, or his heirs afterward.
 And it was Isaac L. who was "commemorated," as it were,
 by the Emerson Cocktail.                        ·
    Emerson was a Baltimore druggist. According to the
 story long ago current among old-timers who haunt the
 clubs in the Mt. Vernon Place district, the invention or dis-
 covery of the remedy, while one of a train of numerous, if
 sometimes expediential, experiments, was nevertheless
 accidental.
    The shop of Emerson, runs this saga, was one of a large
 number of small establishments where medicines were dis-
 pensed in the Monumental City. That was in a day when
 drug stores did not sell everything else but drugs. Like more
 than one other Baltimorean of the time, Emerson occasion-
 ally dropped into some corner establishment with swinging
 shutter-doors, and the meaning of the word "souse" was
 not beyond his grasp.
                           [ 1 33]
    Old Waldorf Bar Days

   But every time he sought to illustrate the definition of
the term, the aftermath was a headache from which there
was no refuge but sleep, and the next morning he would
have what was euphuistically described as "a head." Nat-
urally, he would turn for relief to his own prescription
counter, but none of the patent medicines or any formula
he compounded had seemed to solve the difficulty. One
night, it so happened that Mrs. Emerson was waiting up
for him. She followed him into the drug store and watched
as, from force of habit, he took a little something from a
bottle here, and from another bottle there, until he had ap-
parently satisfied himself that he had put together enough
things to achieve definite results. Now his wife watched
him go to the spigot and turn it on. To her amazement, the
stuff in the glass began to foam until it "boiled" over. At
that point, her husband lifted the glass and drank it down.
A half hour later, his head was as clear as a bell.
   His wife was amazed. "Why, I have never seen you get
over it so quickly," she said.
   "You are right," her spouse replied. Then, as a thought
struck him, he exclaimed: "Do you know, if I could only
remember what I put in that tumbler, I believe I'd have
somethin·g to make a fortune out of!"
   "I can tell you," his wife assured him. "I watched you as
you took up every bottle, and I know exactly what you
used and how much of each thing."
   Not long afterward, Emerson 'approached a member of a
 well known Baltimore banking firm. His story was received
 with skepticism.
    "But," said the banker, according to the locally current
 version of the incident, "if it does what you say it does,
 there is a fortune in it. I'll tell you what," he added; "I'll
 get on a jag and if your remedy does the same thing for
 me that it did for you, I'll see that you get financed."
    And so, the story goes on, the banker went out one
 evening and treated himself to one glorious toot. Emerson
 met him at an appointed hour, showed him the powder, put
 it in a glass, and added water. The stuff fizzed up. The
                           [ 134]
                                              Cocktails

  banker took it and drank. A half hour later, he was cold
  sober, and enthusiastic over the new discovery. And that,
  according to the legend which has come down by word of
  mouth from that day, was the origin of a huge fortune-
  a chance discovery of a means to cure the world's headache.
    However, while Emerson was a frequent patron of the
  old Waldorf Bar, Johnnie Solon, who served him often, said
  he never was known to call for his own remedy on the
  premises.
                  Juice one-half Lime
                   Small teaspoon Maraschino
                  One-third Italian Vermuth
                   One-third
                           I
                               Tom Gin
                   Stir; strain

EWING              One drop Angostura Bitters
                   One jigger Whiskey
                   Stir; strain

EXPRESS            Dash of Orange Bitters
                   One-halfltalian Vermuth
                   One-half Scotch Wliiskey
                   Stir
FANCIULLI
    Certain unmusical memories seem to· recall an I tali an
 opera of that name, but Solon thinks the title was bestowed
 by some wag who wanted to give "the beys" a new cock-
 tail, and named it after them, as it were, but without their
 knowing it. That it was not a misprint for "Fanciulla del
 West"-Puccini's "Girl of the Golden West"-is rather cer-
 tain, as its origin considerably antedates the premiere of
 that of the opera at the Metropolitan, December 10, 1910.
 Fanciulli is what they say when they mean "the boys" on
 the banks of the Tiber; also in the environs of Vesuvius.
                   One-fourth Fernet Branca
                   One-fourth Italian Vermuth
                   One-half Whiskey
                          [ 1   35]
       Old Waldorf Bar Days

FIN DE SIECLE* Orange Bitters
                    One dash Amer Picon Bitters
                    One-third Italian Vermuth
                    Two-thirds Plymouth Gin
                    Stir
FLOATER
     There is equal authority for a contention that this was
  called after a racehorse owned by the late James R. Keene,
  or after an individual numerically important, and who was
  transported into various precincts at different hours of
  Election Day and thereby enabled to vote early and often,
  as the saying was; or, the Floater may have changed his
  residence from a strong precinct of his political faith to one
  that was weaker, in order to make his vote count where it
  was needed. James R. Keene had a horse that was named
  Voter, and another that was called Ballot Box, and it may
  be that persons familiar with the race-track will dig up one
  that was called Floater. Anyhow, if there is such a horse it
  was named after the creature whose vote on Election Day
  had a plurally peripatetic quality.
                    Fill glass with shaved Ice
                    Three-fourths Gilka Kiimmel
                    One-fourth Brandy

FLORIDA             One-halfltalian Vermuth
                    One-half Orange Juice
                    Shake

FOURTH DEGREE
   Origin somewhat mixed, but traceable to patrons of the
 Bar who belonged to some secret society or other. Solon
 thinks it was a compliment to a Mason; maybe it was an
 Odd Fellow. However, let others fight it out.
                    One-third Italian Vermuth
                    Two-thirds Plymouth Gin
                    Dash of Absinthe
                            [ 136]
                                             Cocktails

FULL HOUSE
   The name is indicative of the sway once enjoyed by what
 used to be the great American indoor game.
                  Dash of Angostura Bitters
                  One-third Yellow Chartreuse
                  One-third Benedictine
                  One-third Apple Whiskey
                  Frappe       ·

FUTURITY*         Dash of Angostura Bitters
                  One-half Sloe Gin
                  One-=half I tali an Vermu th
                  Stir 1
GIBSON
   Took its name from Billie Gibson, well known sportsman
 and promoter of fights.
                 One-half French Vermuth
                 One-half Dry Tom Gin
                 Stir; strain; squeeze Lemon Peel
                   on top
GIBSON No. 2     One-third French Vermuth
                 Two-thirds Plymoutn Gin
                 Frappe ..
                 Orange Peel on top

GIN              Dash of Orange Bitters •
                 One jigger Tom Gin
                 Stir; strain
GINGERALE
    The Angostura made it sound wicked, but most of its
 strength in that direction was figurative.
                   One lump Ice
                  Two dashes Angostura Bitters
                   One whole Lemon Peel
                   Fill with cold Ginger Ale
                          [ 137]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
                                   '
GLADWIN           Three-fourths Gordon Gin
                  One-eighth Italian Vermuth
                  One-eighth French Vermuth
                  Frappe
GLOOM LIFTER
    Well, it may have been. It ought to have been. Judging
 from its composition, a few of them would not have made a
 man content with merely having his gloom lifted. Enough
 of the mixture would have insured a bit of hell-raising.
                  Same as Clover Club
                  Use Irish Whiskey instead of
                    Bacardi
                  One-half teaspoon Brandy
GOOD TIMES *      Dash of Orange Bitters
                  One-third French Vermuth
                  Two-thirds Booth's Gin
                  Olive
                  Stir; strain
GRAND VIN         One-fourth Italian Vermuth
                  One-fourth French Vermuth
                  One-half Plymouth Gin
                  Frappe
GUION
   Back in the days when the United States was making a
 name for itself with swift transatlantic steamships,-that
 was long before the.War-the Guion line was important
 among Atlantic steamship companies. The cocktail was
 named after a member of the family which owned, or had
 founded, the Guiqr. line.
                  Dash of Orange Bitters
                  One-half Plymouth Gin
                  One-halfltalian Vermuth
                  Stir; strain
                  One spoon of Benedictine on top
                          [ 138]
GOAT'S DELIGHT
   Looks as if it would also make a goat forget.
                  One-half
                     I
                           Kirschwasser
                  One-half Brandy
                  One dash Orgeat Syrup
                  One spoon Cream
                  One dash Absinthe
                   Frappe
GOLD
   After the product of "them thar hills," finders of which
 came to the Bar in great numbers.
                 Dash of Orange Bitters
                 One-half Tom Gin
                 One-half I tali an Vermuth
                 Frappe

HALSEY
   Solon thinks this was named in compliment to a well
 known stock-broker and patron of the Bar.
                 (whiskey glass)
                 One-half Gordon Gin
                 One-fourth Italian Vermuth
                 One-fourth French Vermuth
                 Frappe
                 Squeeze~Orange Peel and drop in old
                   style
                          [ 1 39]
       Old Waldorf Bar Days

HALL               Dash of Orange Bitters
                   One-third jigger I tali an Vermuth
                   One-third French Vermuth
                   One-third Nicholson Gin
                   Frappe; serve with Olive
HAMLIN
    Took its name from Harry Hamlin of Buffalo, an en-
 thusiastic automobilist in the days when there were far
 more enthusiasts than automobiles. He was a good friend of
 Johnnie Solon and was always wanting to take Johnnie for
 a ride-which meant something different in those times.
 Hamlin was later killed, with five or six other persons, in an
 automobile accident.
                  One-third Italian Vermuth
                  Two-thirds Nicholson Gin
                  Frappe
HARVARD
    Named after a school for young men, whose site is con-
 tiguous to the Charles River, in a suburb of Boston. Alumni
 who drank it sometimes lost the "Harvard accent."
                  Dash of Orange Bitters
                  Two-fifths jigger Brandy
                  Three-fifths Italian Vermuth
                  Stir; strain; fill from siphon
HEARN'S              Dash of Manhattan Bitters
                     Orie-third Whiskey
                     One-third Italian Vermuth
                    One-third Absinthe
                   ..Frappe
HEARST*             One dash Orange Bitters
                    .One dash Angostura Bitters
                     One-half jigger I tali an Vermuth
                     One-half jigger Plymouth Gin
                     Frappe
                                                 Cocktails

HIGHLAND              Dash of Orange Bitters
                      One-half Scotch
                      One-half Italian Vermuth
                      Stir
HILLIARD
   Two claimants to the honor of being its namesake. One
 was "Bob" Hilliard, actor and matinee idol, and a frequent
 patron of the Bar. The other was "Tom" Hilliard, for many
 years actual manager ~f the Waldorf, under Boldt.
                   Dash of Peychaud Bitters
                 . One-third Italian Vermuth
                  0

                   1fwo-thirds Dry Gin
                   Stir; strain

HOLLAND GIN Dash of Angostura Bitters
            One jigger Holland Gin
            Stir; strain

HONOLULU              Two dashes Angostura Bitters
                      One teaspoon Lime Juice
                      One teaspoon Orange Juice
                      One jigger Torri Gin
                      Frappe; twist Lemon Peel on top

HONOLULU No. 2                  ..
              One-third Italian Vermuth
              One-third French Vermuth
              One-third Whiskey
              Frappe

HONOLULU COCKTAIL (a la Mr. Smith)
            Two jiggers Gin
            A little less than half a jigger of
              Orange Cura<;ao
            Juice of half a Lime
                             [ 141]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days




                  HOP FROG
                  Two-thirds Lime Juice
                  One-third Brandy
                  Frappe
HOP TOAD
   Lots of people saw no difference in the meaning of the
 two names above, which were actually synonymous. The
 "Toad", however, was a more complicated and a more po-
 tent mixture as well.
                  Juice of one-half Lime
                  One-third Jamaica Rum
                  One-third Apricot Brandy
                  Frappe
HOWARD            Dash of Orange Bitters
                  One jigger Plymouth Gin
                  Stir
                  Strain
                  Two dashes Angostura Bitters on top
IDEAL             One-third Italian Vermuth
                  Tw0-thirds Plymouth Gin
                  Flavor with Grapefruit
                  Frappe
I.D. K.          "(bar glass)
                  One-third Italian Vermuth
                  '.Two-thirds Nicholson Gin
                  Orange Peel
                         [142]
                                              Cocktails

I. D. K.No. 2
     Solon recalls no patron of the Bar to whom those initials,
   "I. D. K." belonged, or the reason for their being so named.
                   One-fifth Italian Vermuth
                   Four-fifths Nicholson Gin
                   Sprig of Mint
                   Shake

JACK ROSE (~rJacque Rose)-
    Lots of readers about racketeers, and such as read only
  that sort of news in the papers, have believed for years that
  this cocktail was named·after a character who turned state's
  evidence in the .famous Becker case, which sent a Police
  Lieutenant to theichair. To speak in the modern way, they
  are-or were-all wet. The name is really Jacque Rose, a
  corruption of J acquemot. It was named because of its pink
  color, the exact shade of a J acquemot rose, when properly
  concocted.
                    Juice of Lime ·
                    One-third Grenadine Syrup
                    Two-thirds Apple-jack
                    Frappe

JAMES              Dash of Orange Bitters
                   Tw~-thirds Plymouth Gin
                   One-third Red Ca1isaya
                   Stir

JAPANESE           Dash of Baker's Bitters
                   Two dashes Orgeat Syrup
                   One jigger Brandy
                   One slice Lemon Peel
                   Stir; strain
JAPALAC
   So styled in compliment to a paint or varnish man.
  Whether he was the owner of the company that made it, or
                           [ 1 43]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days

  a salesman, is not established. Anyhow, Solon is authority
  for a statement that the cocktail called by that name did
  not enamel a digestive apparatus.
                   Juice one-fourth Orange
                   One-fourth part French Vermuth
                   One-fourth Whiskey
                   Dash of Raspberry Syrup
                   Frappe
JAZZ
     Commemorating the sudden but widespread popularity
  of modern rhythmical measures.
                   Same as Bronx, with plenty of
                      Orange Juice

JERSEY             Dash of Baker's Bitters
                   Two dashes Syrup
                   One jigger Apple Whiskey
                   Stir

JITNEY *           One-half Gin
                   One-quarter Lemon Juice
                   One-fourth Orange Juice
                   A little Sugar
JOCKEY CLUB
    Not after the perfume, but after the American Jockey
  Club itself.
                  Dash of Orange Bitters
                  One jigger Dry Gin
                  Stir; strain

JOHNSON            Dash of Orange Bitters
                   One-third jigger Pl ytnou th Gin
                   One-third French Vermuth
                   One-third Italian Vermuth
                   Stir; one slice Orange Peel on top
                                            Cocktails




JIMMIELEE
    For many years, the Paymaster of the old Waldorf was
 "Jimmie" Lee, a popular young Irishman. Jimmie was so
 entirely Gaelic in his sympathies that when a couple of
 kilted celts early in th'e War came to the Waldorf and played
 their tunes, Jimmie followed those pied pipers back to Erin,
 got mixed up in the revolution, and narrowly escaped get-
 ting hung-or shot. He came back after the War was over,
 a 100% American. Solon thinks the cocktail was named
 after this Jimmie Lee. He recalls a prominent citizen of
 Youngstown, Ohio, in connection with the mixture, and his
 recollection is that that gentleman was an admirer of the
 Waldorf's Paymaster, and presided at its christening.
                     Dash of Peychaud Bitters
                     One-third French Vermuth
                     One-third Italian Vermuth
                     One-third Plymouth Gin
                     Frappe and serve with ~Orange Peel

LEWIS             One-half French Vermuth
                  One-half Plymouth Gin
                  Frappe; strain

LIEUTENANT COLONEL
            One-half French Vermuth
            One-half Amer Picon Bitters
            Frappe
                           [ 1 45]
       Old Waldoif Bar Days
LIBERAL            Dash of Orange Bitters
                   Three dashes Amer Picon
                   One-ha! f Whiskey
                   One-halfltalian Vermuth
                   Stir

LOFTUS ·
    Called in compliment to Cissie Loftus, famous English
  comedienne and mimic. Long a popular top-liner in Ameri-
  can vaudeville.
                  One-third French Vermuth
                  One-third Italian Vermuth
                  One-third Absinthe
                  Frappe

LONE TREE
   After the that-time equivalent of that time of a "nine-
 teenth hole"-a tree which stood alone in a secluded part of
 a golf course near Philadelphia. Recollections of that tree
 inspired a group of Philadelphians so to baptize a cocktail
 especially created for their nourishment.
                  Dash of Orange Bitters
                  One-half jigger Italian Vermuth
                  One-half Plymouth Gin


LOVE              Martini Cocktail, with White of one
                    Eggadded
                  Frappe; strain



LYNNE             One-:halfFrench Vermuth
                  One-half Gordon Gin
                  Frappe; strain
                                         Cocktails

MANHATTAN
   Origin somewhat obscure. Probably first called after a
 well known club of that name, and not after an island to
 which previous reference has been made.
                  Dash of Orange Bitters
                  One-halfltalian Vermuth
                  One-half Whiskey
               , Stir; strai~

MANHATTAN JUNIOR ·
            One-halfVermuth
            One-half Whiskey
            Pi~ce of Orange Peel
            Frappe
            No Bitters

MANHATTAN PUNCH (a la Waldotj)
            Manhattan cocktail in red ground
              glass.-Editor's Note: Last three
              words denote a container, not an
              ingredient.

MARBLE HILL One-quarter Dubonnet
            One-quarter Orange Juice
            One-half Gordon Gin
            Frappe

MARCONI WIRELESS*
            Two dashes Orange Bitters
            One-third Italian Vermuth
            Two-thirds Apple-jack
            Frappe

MARGUERITE Dash of Orange Bitters
           One-half French Vermuth
           One-half Plymouth Gin
                         [ 147]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days

MARMALADE          One-quarter French Vermuth
                   One-quarter Italian Vermuth
                   One-half Nicholson Gin
                   Two slices Orange
                   Shaved Ice; frappe well


MARTINI            Dash of Orange Bitters
                   One-half Tom Gin
                   One-halfltalian Vermuth
                   Stir; strain

MAcLEAN
    In honor of John R. MacLean, long proprietor of the Cin-
 cinnati Enquirer and the Washington Post. MacLean was
 a frequent patron of the Bar in its older days. With him al-
 ways traveled his.J?dus dchates and lieutenant, McBride, a
 genial story-teller and general good fellow, who graced the
 Bar oftener than did his principal. MacLean was once
 owner of the old New York Morning Journal, buying it
 from Albert Pulitzer, brother of Joseph. He used to think
 he made a good deal by selling to William R. Hearst for a
 much higher figure than it cost him. Subsequent events re-
 vealed that Mr. Hearst had not made a bad bargain after all.
                   One-quarter Italian Vermuth
                   One-quarter French Vermuth
                   One-half Gordon Gin
                   Frappe·


McKINLEY'S DELIQ.HT*
             One dash Absinthe
             Two dashes Cherry Brandy
             Two-thirds Whisk~y
             One-third Italian Vermuth
             Stir; strain
                                            Cocktails




MERRY WIDOW*
                   One-half French Vermuth
                   One-half Dubonnet
                   Frappe

METRO POLE
   Attributed to a once well-known and somewhat lively
 hotel, whose bar was long a center of life after dark in the
 Times Square district.
                  One-dash Peychaud Bitters
                  One dash Orange Bitters
                  One-half jigger French Vermuth
                  One-half Brandy
                  Stir; strain on a Cherry

METROPOLITAN
           Two-thirds Manhatta-n Bitters
            One-third Italian Vermuth
            Stir; strain

MIDDLETON          One-half Jamaica Rum
                   One-quarter Grenadine Syrup
                   One-quarter Holland Gin
                   One White of Egg
                   Juice of one Lemon
                   Frappe

MILLIONAIRE Dry Martini, with Grenadine on top,
             in glass
                           [ 149]
       Old Waldorf Bar Days

MILLIKEN          Three dashes Amer Picon Bitters
                  One-quarter French Vermuth
                  One-quarter Italian Vermuth
                  One-half Gordon Gin
                  Frappe

MILO              One-sixth Pomelo Bitters
                  One-third Italian Vermuth
                  One-half Plymouth Gin
MONTANA
   A compliment to the field of operations of many early
 patrons of the Bar.
                 One-third Brandy
                 One-third French Vermuth
                 One-third Port Wine
                 Stir; strain
MONTAUK
    Named about the time that men of vision began to talk
 of Montauk Point as the Western termim~s of transatlantic
 steamship lines.
                  One-third French Vermuth
                  One-third Italian Vermuth
                  One-third Gin
                  Two dashes Peychaud Bitters
                  Served in old-fashioned glass

MOUNTAIN          (wlilskey glass)
                  Glass two-thirds full of Cider
                  One whole Egg
                  P.epper and Salt to taste

MY OWN            One-half French Vermuth
                  One-half Plymouth Gin
                  Frappe
                          [ 150]
                                             Cocktails

NARRAGANSETT
           No Bitters
           One-third Italian Vermuth
           Two-thirds Rye Whiskey
           One dash Anisette
           Stir; strain on Olive

NETHERLAND
   Possibly in;vented at the Hotel Netherland, a contem-
 porary of the old Waldorf.
                  Dash of Orange Bitters
                  Two-thirds Brandy
                  Qne-third Cura~ao
                  Stir; strain

NEUDINE           Dash of Orange Bitters
                  One-half Italian Vermuth
                  One-half French Vermuth
                                         '
                  Stir; strain
NEWMAN
   This was the patronymic of a man who for a time ran the
 old Haymarket, a widely famed Tenderloin resort, at Sixth
 Avenue and Thirtieth Street. Solon avers the cocktail was
 named after him.    ··
                  Dash of Amer Picon Bitters
                  One-third French V~rmuth
                  One-third Italian Vermuth
                  One-third Plymouth Gin
                  Frappe

NEW ORLEANS (fizz glass)
            Dash of Orange Bitters
            One jigger I tali an Vermu th
            Shake; strain; fill from siphon
                         ( I   5I )
       Old Waldotf Bar Days

NEWPORT           One-fifth Italian Vermuth
                  Two-fifths French Vermuth
                  Tw0-fifths Gordon Gin
                  Orange Peel
                  Frappe

NORMAND IE
    The name of a hotel in Broadway's early spotlight dis-
 trict, patronized by sportsmen and sports.
                   Dash of Orange Bitters
                   One-half jigger Apple Whiskey
                   One-halfltalian Vermuth
                   Stir; strain


NUMBER THREE
           One dash Orange Bitters
           One dash Anisette
           One-quarter French Vermuth
           Three-quarters Nicholson Gin
           Frappe; squeeze Lemon Peel on top

NUTTING
   Its namesake was Col. Andrew J. Nutting, of Brooklyn,
 an ardent patron of the Bar for many years.
                - Dash of.Orange Bitters
                  One-half French Vermuth
                  One-half Plymouth Gin
                  Stir; .~train



OJEN              One teaspoon Peychaud Bitters
                  One jigger Ojen
                  Frappe; serve in claret glass with
                    Seltzer
                           ( I 52)
                                                 Cocktails

    OLD-FASHIONED WHISKEY
       This was brought to the old Waldorf in the days of its
•    "sit-down" Bar, and introduced by, or in honor of, Col.
     James E. Pepper, of Kentucky, proprietor of a celebrated
     whiskey of the period. The Old-fashioned Whiskey cocktail
     was said to have been the invention of. a bartender at the
     famous Pendennis Club in Louisville, of which Col. Pepper
     was a member.                  ·
                      One-quarter lump Sugar
                      Two spoons Water
                      One dash Angostura
                      One jigf;er Whiskey
                      One piece Lemon Peel
                      One lump Ice
                      Serve with small spoon

    OLIVET            Dash of Orange Bitters
                      One-half Tom Gin
                      One-halfltalian Vermuth
                      Stir; strain; one Olive in glass

    OPAL              Dash of Orange Bitters
                      One-half Plymouth Gin
                      One-half French Vermuth
                      Stir; strain; one dash o{Absinthe on
                        top
    ORANGE BLOSSOM
       May have been named by a youthful bartender with ro-
     mantic spring notions, though the weight of such evidence
     as is obtainable ascribes it to some young bridegroom or
     other who wanted something novel to use at his final stag
     party. Confused by many present-day drinkers with a Bronx:.
                      One-third Orange Juice
                      One-third Tom Gin
                      One-third Italian Vermuth
                      Frappe
      0/d Waldorf Bar Days
ORANGE BLOSSOM No. 2
   Possibly of similar origin to the first Orange Blossom.
 This cocktail, under another name, has been mentioned as
 a present-day survivor from the past, though now usually
 half composed of synthetic or home-made gin.
                  (bar glass)
                  One-half Orange Juice
                  One-half Gin
                  Frappe

PALMETTO          Dash of Orange Bitters
                  One-half St. Croix Rum
                  One-half Italian Vermuth
                  Stir; strain

PAN-AMERICAN
    Commemorated John Barrett's activities, supported by
 Andrew Carnegie, in forming an association of all American
  countries.
                One-half Lemon, muddled
                Three dashes Syrup
                One jigger Whiskey
                Frappe; strain

PASSIPE           One-third French Vermuth
                  Two-thirds House of Lords Gin
                  Juice of one Orange
                  Frappe
PEACOCK
   Possibly from an adjoining alley of that name.
                 Two dashes Amer Picon Bitters
                 One dash Absinthe
                 One jigger Brandy
                 Frappe
                                          Cocktails

PEG O' MY HEART*
              One-half Lime Juice
              One-half Bacardi Rum
              Color with Grenadine
              Frappe

PELL
   Its name was a tribute tQ Archie Pell, long one of the
 handsomest and best dressed beaux in New York.
                No Bitter~
                One-half Italian Vermuth
                One-half Nicholson Gin
                One .Olive


PEPLO             A Pousse Cafe, shaken and strained


PERFECT           One-third Italian Vermuth
                  One-third French Vermuth
                  One-third Plymouth Gin
                  Frappe with an Orange Peel




PICK ME UP
                  Two dashes Acid or Lemon Phosphate
                  One-halfltalian Vermuth
                  One-half Absinthe
                  Shake; strain
                         [ 1 55]
       Old Waldorf Bar Days

PING PONG
     Named after a game said to have originated in England,
  but which Boldt installed in the big room next to the Bar in
  its early days. Bar habitues learned to play it, but some;-
  times experienced difficulty in hitting the right ball, claim-
  ing three or four were going over the net at one time, in-
  stead of one.
                   Dash of Orange Bitters
                   One-half Sloe Gin
                   One-half Frerich Vermuth


POET'S DREAM One-third Benedictine
             One-third French Vermuth
             One-third dry Gin
             Lemon Peel, squeezed on top
POLO
    Not after Marco, the adventurer, but after the game
  which in those days was little known except to the fashion-
  able. That was before Meadowbrook had hurled its young
  men and its wealth into a comparative void in our National
  outdoor life.
                   One-fourth Lemon Juice
                   One-fourth Orange Juice
                   One-half Rum
                   Frappe


POMEROY             One-third French Vermuth
                    One-third Italian Vermuth
                    One-third Gordon Gin
                    One Orange Peel
                    Frappe a la Bronx
                                                                   '•

PORTO RICO          Sloe Gin Rickey with dash of
                      Grenadine
                                                    Cocktails

       PRAIRIE           (claret glass)
                         One pony Tom Gin
                         One Egg
                         A little Pepper and Salt
                         Cover with Gin
                         Serve with napkin

       PRINCE             Two dashes Orange Bitters
                        . Two dashes Creme de Menthe on top
                          One-third Whiskey

       PRINCE HENRY*
                   Martini, with a dash of Creme de
                     Menthe
       PRINCETON
          After a college somewhere in New Jers~y, which used to
        send a lot of young men to the Waldorf Bar. Or, at least,
        they came.
                         Dash of Orange-Bitters .
                         Two-thirds jigger Tom Gin
                         Stir; strain; fill with Seltzer

       QUEEN             One-third Italian Vermuth
                         One-third French Ve~~uth
                         One-third Gin
                         Frappe with a fine slice of Pineapple

       RACQUET CLUB*
                   Dash of Orange Bitters
;, •
                   One-half Plymouth Gin
                   One-half French Vermuth
                   Orange Peel
                   Frappe
                                 (I 57)
      Old Waldorf Bar Days

RALEIGH            Juice of one-half Lime
                   Juice of one-half Orange
                   Pony of Bacardi Rum
                   Dash of Grenadine Syrup
                   Frappe

REES (Also called H. C. Club)
    After a personal friend of the late George C. Boldt, who,
 like Boldt, had a fine place in the Thousand Islands, and
 was a fellow-member of the Thousand Islands Yacht Club.
                   Wash inside of mixing glass with
                     green Absinthe
                  One dash Angostura Bitters
                  One-tenth Italian Vermuth
                   Nine-tenths Tom Gin
                  To be served warm-no Ice

RIDING CLUB* Dash of Angostura Bitters
             One-half pony Acid Phosphate
             One jigger Red Calisaya
             Stir
ROBERT BURNS
   It may have been named after the celebrated Scotsman.
 Chances are, however, that it was christened in honor of a
 cigar salesman, who "bought" in the Bar.
                   Dash of Orange Bitters
                   Orie dash of Absinthe
                   One-quarter Italian Vermuth
                   Three-quarters Scotch Whiskey
                 , Stir; strain

ROB ROY*           Dash of Orange Bitters
                   One-half Scotch
                   One-half Italian Vermuth
                   Stir; strain
                                             Cocktails

ROBIN              One-half Calisaya Bitters
                   One-half Scotch Whiskey
                   Stir; strain; serve with a Cherry
RORYO'MORE
   After an early Irish patriot, the hero of legends in which
 many a barman was well grounded.
                  Dash of Angostura Bitters
                  One-half Irish Whiskey
                  One-half Italian Vermuth
                  Stir; strain
ROSE              ..One-fourth Grand Marnier
                    lfhree-quarters Dry Gin
                    Stir; strain
ROSEMARY*          One-half French Vermuth
                   One-half Bour hon Whiskey
                   Frappe
ROSSINGTON         One and one-half jiggers Italian
                     Vermuth
                   Two and one-half jiggers Gordon Gin
                   Peel of Orange 9n top
ROSSINGTON No. 2
             One-third Dry Gin
             One-third Italian Vermuth
             One-third French Vermuth
             Orange Peel
             Frappe
RUBY               One-third French Vermuth
                   Two-thirds Cherry Brandy
                   Ten drops Acid Phosphate
                   One dash Orange Bitters
                   Two dashes Maraschino
                   Shake well and strain into glass
     Old Waldorf Bar Days




                 RUSSIAN
               Two-thirds Brandy
               One-third Orange Juice
               Dash of Orange Bitters
               Dash of Absinthe


ST. FRANCIS*    Two dashes Gordon Orange Bitters
                One-half Gordon Gin
                One-half French Vermuth
                Ice and strain; serve in cocktail glass
                  with one stuffed Olive

ST.JOHN*        (whiskey glass)
                Old-fashioned Martini, with dash of
                  Orange Bitters and Lemon Peel

ST.PETER*        Juice of two Limes
                 One-fourth teaspoon Sugar
                 One-half jigger Gordon Gin
               ..Frappe

SALOME*         Two dashes Absinthe
               ·one-half Italian Vermuth
                One-half Dubonnet
                Stir; strain
                        [ 16o]
                                          Cocktails

SAM WARD         Cup a small Lemon
                 Fill with fine Ice
                 Fill with Yellow Chartreuse

SANTIAGO*        One-half Orange Juice
                 One-half Bacardi Rum
                 Color with Grenadine
                 Shake

SAZERAC            Few dashes of Peychaud Bitters
                · Dash of Absinthe
                 ' Dash ofltalian Vermuth
                   One jigger Bourbon or Scotch

SEPTEMBER MORN*
            Juice of one Lime
            One jigger of Bacardi Rum
            White of one Egg
            Color with Grenadine
            Frappe well; serve in claret glass

SEPTEMBER MORN No. 2
            Clover Club, made with Bacardi
              Rum instead of Gin

SHAFTER*         Dash of Orange Bitters
                 One-half Nicholson Gin
                 One-half Italian Vermuth
                 Stir

SHAKE UP SILO One-half French Vermuth
              One-half Plymouth Gin
              Frappe
                         [ 161 ]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days




SKIPPER
   Solon recalls that this was so called in compliment to a
 yachtsman well known many years ago, but does not
 remember his name.
                  Two-thirds Gordon Gin
                  One-fourth Maraschino
                  Dash of Orange Juice
                  Dash of Lemon Juice
                  Frappe

SHERMAN           Dash of Angostura Bitters
                  Dash of Orange Bitters
                  Three dashes Absinthe
                  Two-thirds jigger Italian Vermuth
                  One-third jigger Whiskey
                  Frappe

SILVER            Martini, with dash of Maraschino
                  Frappe

SIR JASPER        Dash of Orange Bitters
                  One-third Italian Vermuth
                  One-third French Vermuth
                  One-third Tom Gin
                  Stir; twist Lemon Peel on top
                          [ 162.]
                                             Cocktails

SLOE GIN           Dash of Orange Bitters
                   Two-thirds Sloe Gin
                   One-third Plymouth Gin
                   Stir; strain


SODA               (Collins glass)
                 , Two dashes Angostura Bitters
                   Two lumps Ice
                   Two pietes Lemon Peel
                   One bott1e Lemon Soda


SOMERSET           One-fourth Italian Vermuth
                   One-fourth French Vermuth
                   One-half Tom Gin
                   Stir; strain
SOUL KISS
     After a musical comedy of that name, which, because of
  its appellation, stirred up a good many ideas among the
  young-and middle-aged-about the latter part of the first
  decade of the century. Whatever the peculiarities of "Soul-
  Kissing," the nature of the concoction itself leads to a sur-
  mise that it was rather "warm stuff/' as the saying was.
                    (bar glass)
                    One-third French Vermuth
                    Two-thirds Dry Gin
                    White of Egg
                    Frappe


SOUTHGATE           One-fourth lump Sugar dissolved in
                     one-half pony of Water
                    Dash ofBoonekamp Bitters
                    One jigger Whiskey
                    One piece twisted Lemon Peel
                            [ 163]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days




                    STAR
                Dash of Orange Bitters
                One-half Apple Whiskey
                One-halfltalian Vermuth
                Stir
sTEPflEN'S      One-third Sherry
                One-third French Vermuth
                One-third Benedictine
                Frappe

STRAWBERRY Dash of Orange Bitters
           Juice of twelve Strawberries, or one
             pony of Syrup
           Three-quarters Brandy
           One dash of Maraschino
           Stir; strain; Strawberry in glass
SUBURBAN*       Dash of Orange Bitters
                Dash of Angostura Bitters
                On~-fifth Port Wine
                One-fifth Jamaica Rum
                Three-fifths Whiskey
                Frappe
SUNSHINE .      Dash of Orange Bitters
                One-eighth Italian Vermuth
                One-eighth French Vermuth
                Three-fourths Tom Gin
                Stir
                                          Cocktails




THANKSGIVING
                   No Bitters
                   One-halfltalian Vermuth
                   One-half Tom Gin
                 ·.Piece of Orange Peel
                   Frappe; strain

SWAN              Juice of one Lime
                  One-half jigger Swan Gin
                  One-half jigger French Vermuth
                  Two dashes Angostura Bitters
                  Two dashes Absinthe
                  Serve well iced
TANGO
   After the Argentinian dance which first became popular
 during the early da.ys of the modern dance craze, in 1912
 or 1913.
                  One-half French Vermuth
                  One-half Dry Gin
                  White of Egg
                  Frappe

TANGONo.2         One-fifth French Vermuth
                  One-fifth Italian Vermuth
                  One-fifth Rum
                  One-fifth Benedictine
                  One-fifth Orange Juice
                  Frappe
                          [ 165]
THOMPSON
    After Denman Thompson, the actor, who made "The
 Old Homestead" famous, and upon whom that play had
 equally and probably better beneficent results.
    Thompson was a patron of the Waldorf, and lived for a
 time in the house. He was one of the famous men of that
 day who clung to the old-fashioned boot long after it had
 given place to laced shoes and Oxfords. The boot had to be
 pulled on by straps, and sometimes it was hard to divest
 oneself of a pair.
    One day, about noon, a bellboy rushed out of the elevator
 and came hurrying down the lobby, looking as if he were
 being pursued. Boldt stopped him.
    "It is Mr. Thompson, sir," said the boy. "He can't get
 his boots off, and he is swearing terrible. I was afraid he
 was going to lick me."
    Boldt immediately sent for the carpenter and told him
 to make a replica of an old-fashioned boot jack, by sawing
 an angle out of a piece of board and nailing a block under
 it. This done in quick time, he sent it with his compliments
 to the actor's room, and Thompson was able to ease himself
 out of his boots.. ..
                    One-third Italian Vermuth
                    Two-thirds Whiskey
                    Orie piece each of Orange Peel,
                      Pineapple, Lemon Peel
                    Frappe
                           [ 166]
                                            Cocktails

MRS. THOMPSON*
            One-third French Vermuth
            Two-thirds Gordon Gin

THIRD DEGREE*
            One-eighth French Vermuth
            Seven-eighths Plymouth Gin
            Several dashes Absinthe
            Frappe .

THREE-TO-ONE .
   Reminiscent of 1a favorite term among conservative
 race-track bettors.
                  One-half Lime Juice
                  One-third Apricot Liqueur
                  Two-thirds Dry Gin
                  Frappe
TIPPERARY
    Invented long before the wartime song of that name was
  heard, so that it must be considered a direct namesake of
  an Irish county, and so called by a-fond exile.
                   Two-thirds Sloe Gil}
                   One-third French Vermuth
                   Teaspoon of Lemon Juice
                    Frappe

TIPTOP            Four dashes Benedictine
                  Two dashes Angostura Bitters
                  One jigger French Vermuth
                  Stir; strain; serve with Lemon Peel

TOM GIN           Dash of Orange Bitters
                  One jigger Tom Gin
                  Stir; strain
                          [ 167]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
TRILBY-*          Dash of Orange Bitters
                  One-third French Vermuth
                  Two-thirds Tom Gin
                  One dash of Creme Yvette
                  Stir; strain

TURF
   At times a good half-possibly two-thirds-of the crowd
 in the Bar were interested in racing, and would appreciate
 a cocktail of such a name.
                   Dash of Angostura Bitters
                   One-third Italian Vermuth
                   Two-thirds Holland Gin
                   Stir; strain

TUXEDO
   After a settlement on the Erie R. R. where many cus-
 tomers of the Bar had country places.
                  Dash of Orange Bitters
                  Two-thirds Plymouth Gin
                  One-third Sherry Wine
                  Stir

TYRONE
   Another Irish county.
                  Dash of Orange Bitters
                · Tw0-thirds Sloe Gin
                  One-third Italian Vermuth
                  Stir; strain

UNION LEAGUE* "
            Dash of Orange Bitters
            One-third Port Wine
            One-third Tom Gin
            Stir; strain
                          [ 168]
                                                    Cocktails
    MR. VANDERVERE
                One-half Nicholson Gin
                One-quarter French Vermuth
                One-quarter Italian Vermuth
                No Bitters
                Stir, not Frappe; twist a Lemon Peel
                  on top

    VANWYCK          (star g~ass)
                     Dash of Orange Bitters
                     One-third Sloe Gin
                     'two-thirds Tom Gin
                     Stir; strain; Fruit in glass

    VERMUTH (French)
                  Dash of Orange Bitters
                 One jigger French Vermuth
                 Stir; strain

    VERMUTH (Italian)
                   Dash of Orange Bitters
                   One jigger Italian Vermuth
                   Stir; strain

    VIN MARIANI      Dash of Orange Bitters
                     One-third Italian Vermuth
                     Two-thirds Vin Mariani
                     Stir; strain

    VIVARY           Dash of Orange Bitters
                     One-halfltalian Vermuth
1                    One-half French Vermuth
i                    One dash Absinthe
                     Stir


'
     Old Waldorf Bar Days

WALDORF
                  Dash of Manhattan Bitters
                  One-third Whiskey
                  One-third Absinthe
                  One-third Italian Vermuth
                   Frappe
   There was a cocktail, not given in the book from which
 these recipes were translated, but which came into consider-
 able favor among customers, who sometimes tired of the
 ordinary Bronx cocktail. It was called the WALDO RF
 BRONX. According to Solon, it was composed of two-
 thirds gin, one-third orange juice, and two slices of fresh
 pineapple.
WALDORF
•.
        GLOOM-LIFTER
            Made same as Clover Club, but use
             Irish Whiskey
            One-half teaspoon Brandy
            White of one Egg
            Dash of Raspberry Syrup
            Dash of Grenadine
            One-half teaspoon Sugar
WALDORF-ASTORIA
            Pony of Benedictine on Ice
            Cover and build in mound with
            sweetened Whipped Cream
WALTER MONTEITH
           One-half Italian Vermuth
           One-half Nicholson Gin
           Frappe
WEST INDIA        Dash of West India or Angostura
                    Bitters
                  One-half Tom Gin
                  One-half French Vermuth
                  Stir; strain
                          [ 170]
                                           Cocktails




WALL STREET
    Well, when a patron had got outside of an afternoon's
  ration of this stimulant, he wasn't able to care what had
  happened downtown before 3 o'clock.
                    One-third Italian Vermuth
                    Two-thirds Gordon Gin
                    Fr-~ppe, with squeeze of Orange Peel
                      on top

WHISKEY           Dash of Angostura Bitters
                  One dash Gin
                  One jigger of Whiskey
                  Stir; strain

WHISKEY           (Old Style)
                  One-quarter lump Sugar
                  One-half pony of Water
                  One µash Angostura Bitters
                  One lump Ice
                  One jigger Whiskey
                  One piece Lemon Peel
                  Stir               .

WHITE GRAPE JUICE
             Fill lemonade glass two-thirds with
               Ice and Grape Juice
             Add Juice of Lime
             Fill with Seltzer
                          [ 171 ]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
H.P. WHITNEY
   A famous patron of the turf who frequented the Bar
 before he and a group of friends moved up to the Brook
 Club.                                              •
                 One-quarter Italian Vermuth
                 One-quarter French Vermuth
                 One-half Plymouth Gin
                 Frappe with Orange Peel


WHITE ELEPHANT
            One-third Italian Vermuth
            Two-thirds Dry Gin
            White of one Egg
            Frappe
WHITTAKER
    Preston Whittaker was one of the owners of the Imperial
 Hotel, but was more to be seen in the Waldorf Bar than in
 his own.
                 Dash of Orange Bitters
                 One-third Italian Vermuth
                 Two-thirds Red Calisaya
                 Stir; strain


WIDOW             One-half jigger Gordon Gin
                  One-half jigger French Vermuth
                  Ora·nge Juice
                  Frappe


WILD CHERRY Dash of Orange Bitters
            One-half Tom Gin
            One-half Wild Cherry or Cherry
              Whiskey
            Stir; strain
                         [ 172]
                                               Cocktails

 WOXUM
    Origin of name obscure. Solon thinks it is aboriginally
  American, and ascribes it to a "bunch of Indians"-
  so-called-who occasionally made whoopee-or, as it was
  said at that time, "raised hell"-in the Bar when they
  could get away with it.

                   One-half pony Yellow Chartreuse
                   One-~alf jigger Apple Whiskey
                   One-half jigger Italian Vermuth
                   Stir


YALE
    An institution somewhere beyond Old Greenwich, where
 many young men go for the purpose of commuting to New
 York for weekends. The Bar used to be one of their "ports
 of call" and there they used to find many who in years past
 had gone to the same place and done tile same things.

                  Dash of Orange Bitters
                  One-half Tom Gin
                  One-half I talianVermu th
                  Stir; strain; a little Seltzer on top


YORK              Dash of Orange Bitters
                  One-half French Vermuth
                  One-half Scotch Whiskey
                  Stir; strain



ZAZA*             Two dashes Orange Bitters
                  One-third Tom Gin
                  Two-thirds Dubonnet
                  Stir; strain
                          [ 1 73]
       Old Waldoif Bar Days

1915
   Named in honor of a New Year. Some believe this was
 the last cocktail invented in the old Waldorf Bar. Well, if it
 wasn't exactly a "knockout," it did not require many to
 produce that effect.
                    One-third Cura~ao
                    One-third Cream
                    One-third Gin
     One recipe given in the old Waldorf Bar-book from
  which these names and ghosts of drinks have been compiled
  was never served over the bar of that hotel. It was a stock
  story, told by the bartenders for almost a generation. And
  that it was faithfully repeated, there can be no doubt, be-
  cause of the careful way it was written down. Even the date
  when it was first imparted to some barman at the Waldorf
  is given-May 7-but of what year, is not recorded; ap-
  parently from the context one between i899 and 1902. The
 'c ustomer who left the s'i:ory was one Peter S. Hoffman, of
  Chicago, who, according to the entry in the book, guaranteed
  it would stimulate business for coroners. Whatever the ad-
  vocates of prohibition claim in that direction, it is reprinted,
  partly as a warning, and partly as a sample of the "latest
  men's story" retailed in a high-class drink emporium of
  some thirty years ago.

              THE RECIPE:

                   T a·ke three Chorus Girls and three Men
                   Soak in Champagne until Midnight
                   Squeeze into an Automobile
                  .f\.dd a dash of Joy, and
                   A drunken Chauffeur
                   Shake well
                   Serve at Seventy Miles an Hour
                   Chaser-A Coroner's Inquest



                            [ 1 74]
    Fancy Potations and Oth erwise*
       Note: The words in parentheses denote the type of serving
       glass, or the qu antit y. See "Bar Glasses," in the Glossary.


 ABSINTHE FRAPPE (New York)
              (star)
             One jigger Absinthe
              Shake well; strain
              Fill with plain Water

ABSINTHE FRA~PE (California)
             (star)
             One jigger Absinthe
             Shake well; strain
             Fill from siphon

ANGEL'S BLUSH or KISS
              (pony)
             Two-thirds ~enedictine
             One-third Cream

ANGEL'S DREAM ·'
                  (pony)
                  One-third Marasehino
                  One-third Cream
                  One-third Creme Yvette
ANGEL'S TIT
   The origin of the three celestially entitled concoctions
 above is somewhat cloudy, and perhaps their aptness is
 open to question. Why, for example, should the same drink
 be · termed both an Angel's Blush and an Angel's Kiss?

*Note: Explanation or exposition of names of recipes starred
    has been given earlier in the book.
                                [ 175]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days

  There is a good deal of difference between a human blush
  and a human osculation, though of course one may be con-
  sequent upon the other. Of course, Angel's Dream involves
  an effort of imagination. As for Angel's Tit-well, this is
  getting too anatomical.
                   (pony)
                   Two-thirds Maraschino
                   One-third Cream


APPLE TODDY COLD
             (whiskey)
             Dissolve one lump of Sugar in three
               teaspoonfuls of Water
             One jigger Apple Whiskey
             One lump lee
             Serve with spoon and Nutmeg


APRICOT SAM WARD
   Sam Ward gave his name to two drinks, but who in Sam
 Hill Sam Ward was, nobody connected with the old Wal-
 dorf Bar seems now to know. See Sam Ward Cocktail.
                 (cocktail)
                 Cup one small Lemon
                 Put in cocktail glass
                 Fill with fine lee
                 Fill with Apricot Brandy


AN AUTOMOBILE ·
   Invention of the drink is variously ascribed. It was first
 concocted in the days when the automobile was a novelty.
 The .f act that its alcoholic content was modest, inclines one
 to the belief that it was not invented by the victim of a
 motor car. On the other hand, it was said to produce an
                   Fancy Potations and Otherwise

 effect similar to the possession of a car when few owned
 automobiles, but many coveted them.
                   (Collins)
                   Juice one-half Lemon or Lime
                   One jigger Gordon Gin
                   Two lumps Ice
                   Three spr.igs Mint
                ' One bottle Imperial Ginger Ale

BABYTITTY
   Somehwat mor~ complex than the anatomical nodule,
 celestially named;, and referred to above. The whipped
 cream with the cherry on top probably suggested the
 designation.
                 (sherry)
                 One-third Anisette
                 One-third Creme Yvette
                 One-third Whipped Crecwn
                 Serve with Cherry on top


BALTIMORE BRACER
            (fizz)
            One-half pony Anisette
            One-half pony Brandy
            White of one Egg
            Frappe; fizz with Carbonic


BAYARD BEAUTY FIZZ
            (lemon)
            One dash Raspberry
            One dash Maraschino
            One spoon Lemon Juice
            One jigger Tom Gin
            Shake; strain; fill with Seltzer
                         [ 177]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
BERMUDA HIGH BALL
            One-third Brandy
            One-third Plymouth Gin
            One-third French Vermuth
            One whole Lemon Peel
            Fill from siphon
BISHOP             (pitcher)
                   Two jiggers Water
                   Four spoons Sugar
                   Juice one-half Lemon
                   One jigger Jamaica Rum
                   One bottle Claret
                   Fruit well
BISMARCK FIZZ
                   (fizz)
                   Juice one-half Lemon
                   One-half spoon Sugar
                   One pony Raspberry Syrup
                   One and one-half jigger Rhine Wine
                   Shake and strain; fill with Seltzer
BLACKJACK
    Supposed to have been called that from knockout effects
 consequent upon indulgence. The blackjack was an instru-
 ment frequently carried by criminals in the pocket now
 sacred to hip-flasks. It usually consisted of a piece of lead
 covered with leathei "thongs, an extension of which went
 over the holder's wrist. Applied to the temple of the victim,
 it usually resulted in temporary or permanent coma. Fre-
 quently, those to whom its namesake was applied, or who
  applied themsel~es to it, recovered consciousness later on.
                   (claret)
                   Open pony Kirschwasser
                   One dash Brandy
                   One pony Coffee
                   Frappe
                            [ 178]
                    Fancy Potations and Otherwise




BLUE BLAZES,
   Name suggested by the flame, the final rite in concocting
 the drink.             '.
                (ale mugs)
                One lump Sugar dissolved in one-half
                  jigger hot Water
                One jigger Scotch
                Set fire to Whiskey; pour back and
                   forth blazing

BORDELAISE        (lemonade)
                  One pony Kirsch
                  One-half pony Raspberry Syrup
                  Shake; strain; fill from siphon

BOSTON COOLER
            (C~llins)
            Juice one-half Lemon
            One-quarter spoon' Sugar
            One jigger Medford Rum
            One bottle plain Soda

BOSTON MILK PUNCH
             (goblet)
             Grate Nutmeg in glass
             One-half spoon Sugar
             One-half jigger Whiskey
             One-half St. Croix Rum
             Fill with Milk; shake well; strain
                           [ 1 79]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days

BRADLEY MARTIN
   After the husband of a famous society leader who gave a
 much publicized ball in the room adjoining the Bar, while
 the latter was still building.
                    (pony)
                   Creme de Menthe on Ice or plain
                      with Creme de Cacao on top


BRANDY AND GINGER ALE FRAPPE
            (Collins)
            One jigger Brandy
            Fill with fine Ice
            Shake well; strain; fill with cold
              Ginger Ale


BRANDY CHAMPERELLE
           (pony)
           One-third Curac;ao
           One-third Boker's Bitters
           One-third Sherry

BRANDY FLOAT
                  (whi.&key)
                  Pony of Brandy, floated on Seltzer in
                    whiskey glass

BRANDY PUNCH "
            (goblet)
            Juice of one-half Lemon
            One-half spoon Sugar
            One pony of Water
            One jigger Brandy
            Shake; strain; fruit
                          [ 180]
                 Fancy Potations and Otherwise

BRANDY JULEP
               (goblet)
               Put three or four sprigs of Mint in
                  mixing glass
               One-half spoon Sugar
               One pony of Water
               Crush weH; fill two-thirds goblet
                  with Ice
               Strain mixture on top
               Fruit well; decorate with sprigs of
                . Mint
BRANDY SCAFFA
            (pony)
            One-half Maraschino
            One-half Brandy
            Two dashes Angostura on top
BRANDY SLING
               (whiskey)
               One-halflump Sugar dissolved in two
                 spoons Water -
               One j!gger Brandy
               One piece twisted Lemon Peel
               One lump Ice
               Small spoon

BRANDY SMASH
 .          (fizz)
            Two sprigs Mint
            Two spoons Water
            One-quarter spoon Sugar
            Muddle
            One jigger Brandy
            Two lumps Ice
            Small spoon
                       [ I8 I ]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
BRANDY SOUR
                 (star)
                 Juice one-half Lemon
                 One-half spoon Sugar
                 One jigger Brandy
                 Fill with Ice; stir; strain; Fruit in
                    glass
BRANDY TODDY
   At least ten drinks took their cognomen from brandy.
 Count 'em. Ten!
                 (whiskey)
                 One-half lump Sugar
                 Three spoons Water
                 One jigger Brandy
                 One lump lee
                 Small spoon
BRUNSWICK SOUR
                 (star)
                 Juice one-half Lemon
                 One spoon Sugar
                 One jigger Rye
                 Stir; Fruit; Claret on top
CAFE BRULER (claret)
                 Moisten edge of glass-dip in
                    Powdered Sugar
                 Seveh-eighths Hot Coffee
                 One-eighth Brandy on top
                 Burn
CAFE KIRSCH (-0laret)
                 White of One Egg
                 One-fourth spoon Sugar
                 One pony Brandy
                 One pony Kirschwasser
                 One pony Coffee
                 Shake well; strain
                        [ 182]




                                      II
                 Fancy Potations and Otherwise

CASCADE        (goblet)
               One pony Creme de Cassis
               One pony French Vermuth
               Fizz with Seltzer



           '
CHAMPAGNE JULEP
             (goblet) ·
             One lump Sugar
             Three sprigs Mint
             Twb lumps Ice
             Fill with Champagne



CHAMPAGNE CUP
            (pitcher)
           One and one-half ponies Brandy
           One pony Benedictine
           One pony Maraschino
           One bottle Soda, or one-quarter
              siphon
            One bottle Wine •
            One stick Ice
            Fruit; decorate with.Mint



CHAMPAGNE PUNCH, Kursley
            (pitcher)
            One pint Champagne
            One pint Beaune
            One pint Apollinaris
            One sliced Orange
            Two lumps Sugar
                      [ 183]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days

CHICAGO FIZZ
    An importation from the Windy City long before bombs,
 machine guns and sawed-off shotguns had come to disturb
 its peaceful life.
                    (lemonade)
                    Juice one-fourth Lemon
                    One-half spoon Sugar
                    White of one Egg
                    One-half jigger Jamaica Rum
                    One-half jigger Port Wine
                    Shake; strain; fill from siphon

CHOCOLATE CREAM PHOSPHATE
            (Collins)
            Yolk one Egg
            One pony Kirsch
            One pony Cream
            Three dashes Acid Phosphate
            Shake well; strain; fill with plain Soda

CIDER NECTAR
                 ( 1 quart) (star)
                 Juice one-half Lemon
                 One spoon Sugar
                 One jigger Brandy
                 One jigger Sherry
                 One quart Cider
                 Minton top


CIDERNOG          (goblet)
                 -One-half spoon Sugar
                  One Egg
                  Shake well; fill with Cider
                  Stir well; serve with napkin
                          [ 184]
                  Fancy Potations and Otherwise

CLARET COBBLER
            (goblet)
            One spoon Sugar
            Two ponies of Water
            One and one-half jiggers Claret
            Fill with Ice; fruit well

CLARET CUP WALDORF
                (pitch~r)
                In mixi.ng glass, put
                One-half spoon Sugar
                One and one-half ponies Brandy
                One pony Benedictine
                One pony Maraschino
                Seltzer to fill glass
                Stir; pour into pitcher; add large stick
                  Ice
                One bottle Claret
                Fruit; decorate with frosted Mint
CLARET PUNCH
                (goblet)
                Juice one-half Lemon
                On~~half spoon Sugar
                One pony of Water
                One and one-half jiggers Claret
                Stir; pour in goblet; fruit well
CLARET PUNCH
                (gallon)
                Juice six Lemons ·
                Two ponies Cura!;ao
                Two ponies Brandy
                Tablespoon Sugar
                Two quarts Claret
                Two siphons
                        [ 185]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days

CLIQUET            (old-fashioned)
                   Juice one Orange
                   One jigger Rye; flavored with St.
                     Croix Rum
                   One small lump Ice

COLUMBIA SKILL
   Called, according to Solon, after the prowess Columbia
 had exhibited in a boat race with Cornell, and first com-
 posed upon the demand of a Columbia "fan" for a new
 drink that would properly commemorate the occasion.
                 One-halflump Sugar
                 Two spoons hot Water
                 One piece twisted Lemon Peel
                 One jigger Whiskey
                 Fill with hot Water; small spoon

CONCLAVE
   No, this was not called after any religious body. Accord-
 ing to Solon, it was named by members of some secret
 society or other, to whom the term was familiar, as the
 name of one of their governing bodies.
                  (goblet)
                  Juice one Orange
                  One pony Raspberry Syrup
                  Fill with Milk; very little Sugar;
                     shake; strain

CREAM PUNCH (goblet)
            One-half spoon Sugar
            One pony White Curai;ao
            One pony Brandy
            Fill two-thirds with Milk
            Shake well; strain; Nutmeg
                          [ 186]
                      Fancy Potations and Otherwise




CREOLE LADY
     A colorful conception, the recipe from which was brought
  from New Orleans. I

                    Two Maraschino Cherries
                    One pony Maraschino
                    One sherry glass of Bourbon
                    One sherry glass of Old Madeira
                    Mix thoroughly with spoon-without
                      Ice

CREAM PUFF         (lemonade)
                   One-half spoon Sugar
                   One pony Cream
                   On,e jigger St. Croix Rum
                   Shake well; strain; fill from siphon

CUBAN MILK PUNCH
             (goblet)
             One pony Vanilla
             One-half teaspoon Sugar
             One whole Egg
             Fill with Milk; shake; strain; Nutmeg

DELGARCIA         (pony)
                  Fill glass with Brandy
                  One slice Lemon laid flat on top
                  One lump Sugar on top of that
                           [ 187]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days

DOUBLE STANDARD SOUR
   Owes its name to a controversy which during the
 Nineties divided two political parties on the subject of
 whether this country should have both a gold and silver
 standard of currency, or gold alone. Nothing to do with
 masculine or feminine conduct.
                  (star)
                  Juice one-half Lime
                  One-half Rye Whiskey
                  One-half Tom Gin
                  One dash Raspberry Syrup
                  Stir; strain; fruit


DUMMY DAISY
   What was called a temperance drink. It looked wicked
 and was popular with sober men who wished to be thought
 "one of the boys" when they drank at the Bar with in-
 temperate friends.
                  (lemonade)
                  One pony Raspberry Syrup
                  Juice one Lime
                  One-half spoon Sugar
                  Fizz with Seltzer


DURKEE
   After a member of a family which had attained wealth
 through the manufacture of condiments.
                  (Collins)
                  One whole Lemon
                  One spoon Sugar, muddled well
                  One jigger Jamaica Rum
                  Fill with Delatour Soda
                  Stir while pouring
                         ( I 88]
EGG FLIP         (goblet)
                ·One-fourth spoon Sugar
                 bneEgg
                 Fill two-thirds Milk
                 Shake; strain

EGG LEMONADE
            (lemonade)
            Juice one Lemon
            One-half spoon Sugar
            Fill with Water
            One Egg
            Shake well; strain

EGG-NOG          (goblet)
                 One-half spoon Sugar
                 One Egg
                 Fill three-quarters with Milk
                 Add Rum, Brandy, or Whiskey
                 Shake well; Nutmeg on top
EGG PHOSPHATE
            (lemonade)
            One Egg
            One-half spoon Sugar
            Three dashes Acid Phosphate
            Shake well; fill with plain Soda
                        ( I 89]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days

FASCINATION
   Solon ascribes the name to a famous waltz of many years
 back.
                  (champagne)
                  One-third White Curac;ao
                  Two-thirds White Absinthe
                  One piece of Ice in glass
                  Fill from siphon

FIN DE SIECLE
    Simply a Tom Collins with a fruity accent and flavor. Its
  name dates it back to 1899 or 1900, when the term was
  much used, but, as earlier indicated, much mispronounced.
                  (Collins)
                  Tom Collins, with Grenadine and
                     Raspberry Syrup

FISH-HOUSE PUNCH
             (goblet)
             Juice one-half Lemon
             One-half spoon Sugar
             One-half jigger Brandy
             One-half Jamaica Rum
             Shake well; Fruit in s~ason




                           [ 190]
                     Fancy Potations and Otherwise

FIX WHISKEY        One lump Sugar
                   One jigger Whiskey

FLAMBEAU           (flat champagne)
                   Cup small Orange-turn inside out
                   One lump Sugar
                   One jigger Brandy
                   Set fire-burn five or ten seconds

FLORADO RA
    After an Engli~h musical comedy that had a long run at
  the Casino early in the century, and was famous for its
  sextette, and for the number of wealthy marriages made by
  the members of the latter.
                    (Collins)
                    Juice one Lime
                    One-half teaspoon Sugar
                    One-half pony Raspberry
                    One jigger Gin
                    Frappe; fizz with one bottle Ginger
                      Ale

FLORIDA SPECIAL
    Solon ascribes the name to a - railroad man seeking
  publicity for a certain train.
                    (lemonade)
                   One drink Orange Juice
                   One lump Ice
                   Split of Ginger Ale

FREE SILVER FIZZ
   Should be mentioned in connection with the Double
 Standard Sour. Free silver was an obsession of a great many
 Americans during the final decade of the last century, who
                           [ 191]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days

  believed that an unlimited coinage of silver would solve the
  country's financial and other problems. William Jennings
  Bryan was a famous advocate of Free Silver, and ran on a
  "16 to l" platform, that is to say, one that demanded the
  coinage of silver at the ratio of I 6 to I of whatever gold was
  coined.
                    Juice one-fourth Lemon
                    One-third spoon Sugar
                    Two-thirds Tom Gin
                    One-third Medford Rum
                    One-half pony of Milk
                    Shake; strain; fill from siphon
FRUIT CUP           Raspberry Syrup
                    Strawberry Syrup
                    Pineapple Syrup
                    Lemon Syrup
                    Orange Syrup
                    Currant Syrup
                    Sliced Bananas
GARDEN OF EDEN
  Nothing doing. No sex problems for this commentator.
               (pony)
               One-half pony Creme Yvette

            .. One-half pony Apricot Brandy




                             [ 192]
                      Fancy Potations and Otherwise

GENERAL HENDRICKS
            (goblet)
            One-half Lemon, muddled with
            Two lumps Sugar
            One jigger Bourbon Whiskey
            Fill with Apollinaris

GIN BUCK           (Collins)
                   One drink of Gin
                   One Leinon in glass
                   qnelump Ice
                   One bottle Imported Ginger Ale

GIN FIZZ           Juice one-half Lemon
                   One-half spoon Sugar
                   One jigger Tom Gin
                   Shake and strain; fill from siphon

GOLDEN FIZZ        (lemonade)
                   Juice one-half Lemon
                   One-half spoon Sugar
                   Yolk one Egg
                   One jigger Gin
                   Shake; strain; fill f~~m siphon

GOLDEN SLIPPER
             (sherry)
             One-fourth Yellow Chartreuse
             One small Egg
             Fill with Dantzig

GOODWIN PUNCH
   After Nat C. Goodwin, famous actor and man-about-
 town, whose essays into matrimony used to interest many a
 breakfast table. N at occasionally got into a scrap, in cer-
                           [ 1 93]
       Old Waldorf Bar Days

  tain of which he proved he had a strong right arm, but the
  drink was descriptive rather of what Nat took, than of
  what he gave.
                   (goblet)
                   Juice one Lime
                   Open spoon Sugar
                   One dash Sherry
                   One jigger Rye
                   Shake; strain; ice; fruit




                        GRASS HOPPER
                         Name supposed to be synonymous
                      with the effect, though, as this was a
                      temperance drink, the matter is open
                      to question.
                  (lemonade)
                  One-half Lemon Juice
                  One-half Orange Juice
                  One whole Egg
                  One-half teaspoon Sugar
                  Ice



GRENADINE FIZZ
             (lemonade)
             Juice one-half Lemon
             One-half spoon Sugar
             One pony Grenadine
             One pony Milk
             One jigger Tom Gin
             Shake; strain; fill from siphon
                          [ 1 94]
                        Fancy Potations and Otherwise

HANCOCK SOUR
   According to Solony this was named in memory of Gen-
 eral Winfield Scott Hancock, famous Confederate veteran,
 who was the Democratic candidate for the Presidency of
 the United States away back in .1880.
                  (fizz)
                  Four dashes Rock Candy Syrup
                  Juice One Lime
                  Three clashes Jamaica Rum
                  One jigger Bourbon
                  Ice; stir; strain; fill with Carbonic
                    I




HAPPY THOUGHT
   A glance at this recipe inclines one to think that some
 bartender's "happy thought" in this instance was to grab
 up every bottle within reach, one after ·a nother, and pour
 some of each into a glass. It made a bouquet of various
 odors and tastes. But what one wonders what must have
 been the aftermath of the "Happy Thought!"
                  (claret)
                  Equal parts       .
                    Anisette, Creme de Cacao,
                    Creme de Rose, Creme de Men the,
                     Creme Yvette and Cognac
                  Cracked Ice



HAWAII COOLER
             (Collins)
             Whole Peel of Orange
             Juice of one Orange
             One jigger Whiskey
             One bottle Ginger Ale
                             [ 1 95]
       Old Waldorf Bar Days
HERALD PUNCH
   Designed to compliment certain members of the old New
 York Herald staff, who resorted frequently to the Waldorf
 Bar-when they had the price.
                 (goblet)
                 Juice of one Orange
                 One-half spoon Sugar
                 One jigger Whiskey
                 Shake; fruit; flavor with St. Croix
                    Rum


HIGH-BALL
    Of course, the term may have come from baseball, but
  the only convenient encyclopaedia seems to be a temper-
 ance proposition, for it doesn't mention it. Solon says it
 used to send up many a man's batting average in his own
 estimation.
                  (fizz)
                  One jigger Whiskey
                • One lump Ice
                  Fill from siphon



HILLY CROFT COOLER
             (Co1lins)
             Whole rind of Lemon
             Two lumps Ice
             Qne bottle Ging~r Ale
             One jigger Tom Gin


ROBSON'S KISS
                  Champagne, Moselle, or Rhine
                    Wine Cup
                  Made like Claret Cup Waldorf
                         [ 196 J




                                       ,,
                     Fancy Potations and Otherwise

HORSE'S NECK
   Sounds wicked, but it wasn't. Just why the name, there
 seems no reason beyond the fact that it was a long drink,
 and in color might remind one of a horse-if one could
 think of the right-colored horse.
                    (Collins)
                   Whole of~ Lemon Peel
                   One bottle Ginger Ale

HORTON FIZZ       (fizz)
                  Gjn fizz, with three or four sprigs of
                     Mint, shaken up

HOT BAKED APPLE TODDY
             One lump Sugar, dissolved
            One-fourth Baked Apple
            One jigger Apple Whiskey
            Fill two-thirds with hot Water

HOT GIN SLING One lump Sugar, dissolved in hot
                 Water
              One jigger Gin
              Fill t'wo-thirds with hot Water
              One piece Lemon Peel

HOT SCOTCH       One lump Sugar, dissolved in hot
                   Water
                 One jigger Scotch
                 Fill two-thirds with hot Water
                 One piece Lemon Peel, twisted

HOT SHERRY       One-half lump Sugar, dissolved in hot
                    Water
                 One jigger Sherry
                 Fill two-thirds with hot Water
                 Nutmeg:on:side
                          [ 1 97]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days

HOT SPICED RUM
             One lump Sugar, dissolved in hot
               Water
             One jigger Rum
             Five whole Cloves
             Fill glass with hot Water


HOT WHISKEY SKIN
             One lump Sugar, dissolved in hot
               Water
             One jigger Whiskey
             One piece twisted Lemon Peel
             Fill with hot Water


HOT WHISKEY TODDY
             One lump Sugar, dissolved in hot
               Water
             One jigger Whiskey
             Fill two-thirds with hot Water

JAPFIZZ
    To have been appropriate, one would think a necessary
  ingredient would be Sake, or Japanese rum. Rye whiskey
  and port wine mixed together do not suggest Sake-any-
  thing but.
                  (fizz)
                  Juice one-half Lemon
                  One spoonful Sugar
                  One-half jigger each of Rye
                     Whiskey and Port Wine
                  White of one Egg
                  Frappe; strain; serve with Seltzer and
                     one slice Pineapple
                         [ 198]
                       Fancy Potations and Otherwise




JERSEY FLASHbIGHT
   One ingredient was what i,s now synonymous with "Jersey
  Lightning," though the ter.m "flashlight" may have been
  suggested by the flall?-e.
                   Two1lumps Sugar
                   One dash Angostura Bitters
                   One piece Lemon Peel
                   One jigger Apple Whiskey
                   Fill with hot Water; ignite the whole
                   Mix while blazing
JIM RENWICK (Collins)
                    Rind of one Lemon
                    One jigger Whiskey
                    Two lumps Ice
                    One bot.de imported C!inger Ale
JOHN COLLINS
     One of two members of the Collins family famous in bars
  in the old days. Who the original Collins was, it seems diffi-
  cult to establish. Tom Collins was the favorite of the two
  with most drinkers, and therefore better known. The differ-
  ence between the two was that a Tom Collins was made
  with Old Tom Gin-or supposedly-while a John Collins
  was made with Holland Gin.
                    (Collins)
                    Juice one-half Lemon
                    One-half spoon Sugar
                    One jigger Holland Gin
                    Shake; strain; fill with plain Soda
                            [ 1 99]
       Old Waldorf Bar Days

JOHN FRAZER         (pony)
                    Seven-eighths Maraschino
                    One-eighth Angostura Bitters
JOKER               (sherry)
                    One-fourth Anisette
                    One-fourth Creme Yvette
                    One-fourth Benedictine
                    One-fourth Cream
JONES LA POUSSE
    Solon knew personally two hundred and sixty-three
  Joneses, who were frequent or occasional patrons of the old
  Bar, and is hazy about fastening responsibility for the drink
  upon any one of them.
                    (pony)
                    Two-thirds Yellow Chartreuse
                    One-third Cream
JUCKER              (sherry)
                    One-fourth Anisette
                    One-fourth Creme~Yvette
                    One-fourth Benedictine
                    One-fourth Cream
KENTUCKY TODDY
            (whiskey)
            One-halflump Sugar
            Two spoonfuls Water
            One·jigger Kentucky Whiskey
KING CHARLES
                    {goblet)
                   ·One pony Maraschino
                    One jigger Tom Gin
                    Three small lumps Ice
                    Fill with plain Soda
                    Fruit well
                            [ 200]
                     Fancy Potations and Otherwise

KLONDIKE COOLER
   Called in compliment to someone who showed up in the
 Bar as soon as possible after he had made a strike in the
 Alaska gold fields.
                    (Collins)
                    Whole peel of one Orange
                    Juice of Orange
                    One jigger Whiskey
                  ' One Ginger Ale



KINSLEY CHAMPAGNE PUNCH
   Called after Kinsl ~y, one of the proprietors of the Hol-
 land House, where the drink was invented.
                  (pitcher)
                  One pint Champagne
                  One pint Burgundy
                  One pint Apollinaris
                                            I•
                  Three lumps Sugar
                  One sliced Orange


KNICKERBOCKER
    After a well known New York club, then situated in a
  few steps from the Waldorf, and supposed to have been
  originally compounded for members of that organization,
  as was the case with Knickerbocker Punch (q. v.).
                   (Collins)
                   Juice one-half Lemon
                   One lump Sugar
                  Two dashes Angostura Bitters
                  One whole Lemon Peel
                  One jigger Brandy
                   Fill with plain Soda
                          [ 201   J
      Old Waldorf Bar Days

KNICKERBOCKER PUNCH
           (goblet)
           Juice one-half Lemon
           One-half spoon Sugar
           One pony Water
           One jigger St. Croix Rum
           Stir; fruit well; float Claret on top
KNICKERBINE (sherry)
            One-third Creme de Rose
            One small Egg Yolk
            One-third Benedictine
            One-third Kiimmel
            Three dashes Orange Bitters on top
KRUGER SPECIAL
                 (fizz)
                 Cherry Flip, with a dash of
                   Grenadine
                 Fill from siphon
LANDER'S PUNCH
                  One-fourth Jamaica Rum
                  One-fourth Gordon Gin
                  One-fourth French Vermuth
                  One-fourth Lemon Juice
LALLAROOKH
   Named by an lrish·barman who had read Tom Moore's
 oriental romance.
                  (lemonade)
                  O.r:e pony Vanilla
                  One-half jigger Brandy
                  One-half Jamaica Rum
                . One-half spoon Sugar
                  One tablespoon Whipped Cream
                  Shake well; strain
                          [ 202]
                     Fancy Potations and Otherwise

LAWYER'S REVENGE
    Much milder than its name, and producing an effect far
 less deleterious than one might suppose a revengeful lawyer
 would be apt to inflict.
                    (star)
                    One-fourth spoon Sugar
                    Piece of Orange Peel
                    Qne-half jigger Water; mix well
                    Fill mixing glass with Ice
                    Put over it.one jigger Port Wine
                    Add dash of Vichy


LEMONADE, PLAIN
            Juice of one Lemon
            One-half spoonful Sugar
            Fill with plain Water
            Shake; fruit


(Fruit) LEMONADE (a la Taylor)
              Equal parts of
                Raspberry Syrup, -Strawberry
                Syrup, Pineapple Sy,rup, Lemon
                Juice, Currant or Blackberry
                Juice and Orange Juice with
                small pieces of Banana
              Fill glass with sparkling Water


LEMON PHOSPHATE
            (lemonade)
            Three dashes Acid Phosphate
            One spoon Lemon Juice
            Fill with Lemon Soda
            Stir
                           [ 203]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
LEMON SQUASH
                  (Collins)
                  Muddle one Lemon
                  One-half spoon Sugar
                  Fill with plain Soda
                  Stir
LOCOMOTIVE HOT
            (pitcher)
            Yolks of three Eggs, well beaten
            One ounce of Honey
            Five Cloves
            One pony of Triple Sec
            One pint Hot Burgundy
            Stir well together; serve in hot
              whiskey glasses
LO ENS KY         (pony)
                  Two-thirds Russian Kiimmel
                  One-third Scotch Whiskey
LUNE DEMIEL
   A drink oftener drunk than correctly pronounced, but
 whether it signified any particular honeymoon, records and
 memories fail to show.           ·
                   (sherry)
                   One-third White Cacao
                   One-third Parfait d' Amour
                   Yolk of one Egg
                   One-third Kiimmel Dore
MAMIE GILROY
                  (Collins)
                  Juice one'-balfLime
                  One dash Hostetter Bitters
                  One jigger. Scotch Whiskey
                  One bottle Club Soda
                          [ 204]
                      Fancy Potations and Otherwise

MARGUERITE         (Collins)
                   One-half Lime
                   Lump lee
                   One jigger Tom Gin
                   One imported Ginger Ale
                   If for two, split



MAMIE TAYLOR
    Just who originated the Mamie Taylor is not a matter of
 record. So far as accessible authorities know, its recipe was
 first published one day in the'1old New York Herald, early in
 the century.James Gordon Bennett, proprietor of the news-
 paper, believed that a new drink took rank among other
 inventions, and its creation might be chronicled in his paper
 as a matter of news.
    Solon made the first Mamie Taylor that ever graced the
 Waldorf Bar. He did not invent it. But it so happened that
 he had read the recipe in the Heraid the morning of the day
 when Traverson, head waiter of the Empire Room, came
 into the Bar at lunch time and said to him, "Johnnie, I've
 got a real job for you."
    "What's that?" Solon asked.
    "Well, I've got a customer who says he bets he can name
 a drink you can't make."
    "What's that?"
    "A Mamie Taylor."
    "Huh! A Mamie Taylor? That's easy," Solon averred.
 He had torn out the recipe and put it in his pocket.
    So under the eyes of the head waiter, Johnnie calmly
 proceeded to cut a lime in half, poured a jigger of Scotch
 whiskey, followed it with some cracked ice, dug into the
 refrigerator for a bottle of imported ginger ale, filled the
 glass, and stirred it with a long spoon.
    Traverson himself took the new drink into the Empire
 Room. After a few minutes, he came back.
    "That fellow says you must be a wizard," he told Solon.
                           [ 205]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days

  "Why, he had never heard of the drink until he read about
  it in the Herald this morning."
     Johnnie did not betray the source of his wizardry, but
  that day he sold a lot of Mamie Taylors. Traverson, a good
  salesman, had spread the fame of Johnnie's accomplishment
  among patrons of the Empire Room.
                    (Collins)
                    Juice one-half Lime
                    One jigger Scotch Whiskey
                    One bottle Imported Ginger Ale
MARTINIQUE        (pony)
                  Two-thirds Benedictine
                  One-third Cream
MINCE PIE
   No mincemeat, no pie; only the brandy that was a
 standard mincemeat ingredient in those days. Maybe it was
 a case of metonymy; the name meaning the effect, instead
 of the cause.
                 (pony)
                 Three-quarters Creme de Menthe
                 One-quarter Brandy
MINHEART CUP
                   (fruit cup)
                   Raspberry Syrup
                   Pineapple Juice
             ·•    Lemon Juice
                   Orange Juice
                   Red Currant Juice
                   Sliced Bananas
                   St'rawberries
MINT COOLER (Collins)
            Three or four sprigs of Miq t
            Two lumps Ice
            One bottle Ginger Ale
                           [ 206]
                   Fancy Potations and Otherwise




MINT JULEP
                 (goblet)
                 In mixer put three sprigs Mint
                 One~alf spoon Sugar
                 One pony Water
                 Press well
                 Add one jigger Whiskey
                 Stir and pour into glass two-thirds
                   full Ice
                 Fruit well; decorate with Mint


MILK PUNCH       (goblet)
                 One jigger Whiskey -
                 One-ha\( spoon Sugar
                 Fill three-quarters wi th Milk
                 Shake; strain; serve with Nutmeg


MONAHAN SPECIAL
   Called after Mike Monahan, one of the Waldorf bar-
 keepers, its inventor.
                   (whiskey)
                   Dash of Amer Picon Bitters
                   Two-thirds Whiskey
                   One-third Italian Vermuth
                  Stir
                        [ 207]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days

MONT BLANC
   It took an imaginative bartender to see a resemblance to
 a white-toppe_d mountain in a foaming glass.
                  (goblet)
                  One pony Orgeat Syrup
                  One jigger Absinthe
                  White of one Egg
                  Shake; strain
                  Fill glass with Seltzer
MORNING GLORY FIZZ
            (fizz)
            Juice one-half Lemon
            One-half spoon Sugar
            White of one Egg
            One jigger Scotch
            Two dashes Absinthe
            Shake; strain; fill from siphon
MULLED CLARET or BURGUNDY
            Three spoons Sugar
            One-half pint Water
            Five or six Cloves
            Three or four small pieces
              Cinnamon Wood
            Whole rind of Lemon cut very thin
            Put over fir~ and let come to a boil
            Add Wine
            Boil again and serve very hot
MURDOCK FIZZ
                  (fizz)
                  Two lumps Ice, dissolved in pony
                     of Water
                  Two pieces Lemon Peel
                  One jigger Rye Whiskey
                  Fill glass with Ice
                          [ 208]
                    Fancy Potations and Otherwise

NARRAGANSETT COBBLER
   After Narragansett Pier, during the late Nineties the
 summer abode of many wealthy patrons of the Waldorf Bar.
                 (Collins)
                 Whole peel of Orange
                 Juice of one Orange
                One jigger Whiskey
                One bottle Ginger Ale
                 $tir

NEW ORLEANS FIZZ
             (goblet)
             Juice of one Lemon and a half
             White of Egg
             One spoon Sugar
             Three dashes Orange Water
             One jigger Cream
             One jigger Gin
             Shake well

ORANGEADE         (lemonade)
                  Juice of one and one-half Oranges
                  One-quarter spoon Sugar
                  Fill two-thirds with Water
                  Shake; strain

ORANGE BRANDY CUP
            Cup an Orange; turn inside out
            Serve in glass with Brandy

ORANGEFLAMBEECOGNAC
           Cup an Orange
           Put rind in glass, inside out
           Fill with shaved Ice
           Pour over it Cognac
                          [ 209]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days

ORANGE LILY      (lemonade)
                 Juice of two Oranges
                 White of one Egg
                 Frappe


ORANGE PHOSPHATE
            (lemonade)
            Juice one-half Orange
            Two dashes Syrup
            Three dashes Acid Phosphate
            Stir; fill with plain Soda

ORANGE SMILE
                (goblet)
                Juice of two Oranges
                One Egg
                Just enough Grenadine Syrup to
                  give color
                Frappe


PALL MALL HIGH-BALL
             One-third jigger Nicholson Gin
             One-third Vermuth
             One-third Brandy
             Fill from siphon


PEACH BLOW      (fizz)
                Juice one-quarter Lemon
                One-half spoon Sugar
                One-half Peach
                One jigger Tom Gin
                Shake; strain; fill from siphon
                        [ 210]
                      Fancy Potations and Otherwise

PEGGY O'NEILL PUNCH
    After an opera or play of that name, it is believed. The
  original Peggy O'Neill was the daughter of a Washington
  tavern-keeper noted for her beauty and wit. First married
  to a purser in the U. S. Navy named Timberlake, who, a
  few years later, committed suicide, her second husband was
  Major J. H. Eaton, who soon afterward became Secretary
  of War in, Andrew Jackson's cabinet. For many years she
  was the center of a great scandal in Washington, and on
  her account Jackson reorganized his cabinet. After the
  death of her husband, she married an Italian dancing mas-
  ter many yeq.rs younger than herself, who, before she di-
  vorced him, had squandered much of her property. Occa-
  sionally, there is a good story behind the name of a drink.
                       (goblet)
                     One dash Parfait d'Amour
                     One Lime Peel in center of glass
                     One drink Rye Whiskey
                     Three sprigs Mint ,
                     Fill with Seltzer


PEPSIN TODDY (whiskey)
             One-half lump Sugar
             Two dashes Pepsin Bitters
             One jigger Whiskey
             One lump Ice
             Fill from siphon


PEQUOD SOUR (star)
            Juice of one-half Lemon
            One-half spoon Sugar
            Two sprigs Mint
            One-half Water
            One jigger Whiskey
            Stir well; fruit
                           [ 21 I )
       Old Waldorf Bar Days

PING PONG PUNCH*
             (lemonade)
            Juice of one Lemon
            One dash Bitters
            One jigger Apple Cider
             Fresh Egg
            One spoon Sugar
            Shake; strain; fill with Soda Water
PING PONG PUNCH, No. 2
             (pitcher)
             Five siphons
            One quart Whiskey
            One quart Brandy
             Crushed Mint
             Fruit
PLANTER'S PUNCH
                  Juice of one small Lime
                  One small measure Jamaica Rum
                  Fruit like a Claret Punch
                  Fill glass from siphon
POMPIER
    After the French term for "fireman;" but no French fire-
 man would understand the usual orders that were given
 for it.
                  (fizz or Collins)
                  One-:half jigger French Vermuth
                  One-half jigger Creme de Cassis
                  Fill with Seltzer
PORT WINE SAN9AREE
             (fizz)
             One-half spoon Sugar
             One-jigger Water
             One and one-half jigger Port Wine
             Stir; strain
                          [ 212] .
                      Fancy Potations and Otherwise

POUSSE CAFE WALDORF
             (sherry)
             One-seventh Raspberry Syrup
             One-seventh Anisette
             One-seventh Parfait d' Amour
             One-seventh Creme Yvette
             One-seven th Yell ow Chartreuse
             One-seventh Green Chartreuse
             One-seventh Brandy
POUSSE L' AMOU;R
               (sherry)
               One-third Maraschino
               Yolk of one Egg
               Cover with Vanilla
               Fill with Brandy
PRESBREYJULEP                               .
   Called, according to Solon, after a well-known advertising
 man.
                  (goblet)
                  Three sprigs Mint
                  One jigger Whiskey
                  One'dash St. Croix Rum
                  Shaved Ice, frosted by stirring
                  Fruit and Mint

PUNCH UNIVERSAL
            (pitcher)
            Two tablespoons Sugar
            Juice of two Lemons and one Orange
            One pony Jamaica Rum
            One pony Brandy
            One bottle plain Soda
            One quart Chablis
            Fruit
                           [ 213]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days

QUEEN CHARLOTTE
            (Collins)
            One pony Raspberry Syrup
            One jigger Claret
            Two lumps Ice
            Fill with Lemon Soda
            Stir

RAINBOW POUSSE CAFE
            Equal parts of
              Grenadine, Maraschino,
              Green Creme de Men the,
              Yellow Chartreuse,
              Curac;ao and Brandy

REMSEN COOLER
            (Collins)
           ·Whole peel of Lemon
            One jigger Tom Gin
            Fill with plain Soda
RICKEY
   Called for Colonel Joe Rickey, as told elsewhere.
                 (goblet)
                 Juice and rind of one Lime
                 Lumpoflce
            .,.  Gin or other Liquor to suit customer
                 Fill trom siphon
ROBERT E. LEE
                  (f:ollins)
                  One dash Absinthe
                  Juice of one Lime
                  One drink of Scotch Whiskey
                  Ice and shake
                  One bottle oflmported Ginger Ale
                          [ 214]
                     Fancy Potations and Otherwise




ROCKANDRYE
                  (whiskey)
                  Two spoons Rock Candy Syrup
                  One jigger ·whiskey
                  Servp with small spoon



ROMAN PUNCH
                  (goblet)
                  Juice of one-half Lemon , ,
                  One spoon Sugar
                  One pony Curai;ao
                  One-half jigger Jamaica Rum
                  One-half Brandy
                  One or two dashes Port Wine
                  Shake; strain; Seltzer on top; fruit



ROOFGARDEN COOLER
   A drink that was frequently made and sent up to the roof
 of the hotel in the days when the Waldorf was the only
 hotel that had a roof garden.
                  (Collins)
                  One Lime
                  One dash Bitters, on one lump Sugar
                  One jigger French Vermuth
                  One bottle of Ginger Ale
                          [ 215]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days

ROOSEVELT PUNCH
             (goblet)
            Muddle one-half Lemon
            One spoon Sugar
            One jigger Apple Whiskey
            Shake; one dash of Brandy on top

ROOSEVELT SOUR
                (star)
                Juice of one-half Lemon
                One-half spoon Sugar
                One jigger Apple Whiskey
                Shake; strain on Fruit in glass
    The two drinks above were named in honor of Col.
 Theodore Roosevelt, but there is no record that he ever
 tried them.

ROYAL FIZZ       (lemonade)
                 Gin Fizz with a whole Egg
                 Fill from siphon

ROYAL SMILE        One-fourth Gordon Gin
                   One-fourth Apple-jack
                   One-fourth Grenadine
                 . One-fourth Lemon Juice
                   Frappe

RUM PUNCH,       '(goblet)
                 Juice of one-half Lemon
                  One-half spoon Sugar
                  One pony of Water
                  One jigger Rum
                  Fill glass two-thirds fine Ice; fruit
                    well
                          [ 216]
                      Fancy Potations and Otherwise

RUM SOUR           (star)
                   Juice of one-half Lemon
                   One-half spoon Sugar
                   One jigger Rum
                   Shake; strain on Fruit in glass


SABBATH CALM
    Well, it may have deserved its name, but no dyspeptic
  would be inclined to try· it, expecting repose thereafter.
                   (goblet)
                   One pony Brandy
                   One pony Port Wine
                   One pony Black Coffee
                   One Egg
                   One-half spoon Sugar
                   Fill two-thirds with Cream
                   Shake; strain; Nutmeg



ST. CROIX RUM SOUR
              (star)
              Juice of one-half Lemon
              One spoon Sugar ·•
              One jigger St. Croix Rum
              Shake; strain on Fruit in glass



SANGAREE           (fizz)
                   One-half jigger French Vermuth
                   One-half jigger Sloe Gin
                   One dash Acid Phosphate
                   Two daishes Angostura Bitters
                   Fill with Ice
                            [ 217]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days

SANTIAGO SOUR*
             (star)
             Juice of one-half Lemon
             One-half spoon Sugar
             One pony of Water
             One jigger Whiskey
             Stir well; stuffed Olive in glass

SARATOGA COOLER
            (Collins)
            Whole rind of Lemon
            Two or three lumps Ice
            Fill one-half with Sarsaparilla
            One-half with Imported Ginger Ale

SAVANNAH          (claret)
                  Juice one-half Orange
                  Drink of Gin
                  White of one Egg
                  Dash of Creme de Cacao
                  Frappe

SCHLEY PUNCH
    Named after Commodore Winfield Scott Schley, of Span-
 ish-American War fame. For many years, officers of the
 American Navy were divided in their claims as to who won
  the battle of Santiago-Admiral Schley, who did the work,
 or Admiral .~amson, who was in command, but some dis-
  tance away.
                   (lemonade)
                   Juice and rind of one-half Lime
                   On~:..fourth spoon Sugar
                   One-third jigger St. Croix Rum
                   Two-thirds jigger Whiskey
                   Shake; strain; fill with Seltzer
                          [ 218]
                     Fancy Potations and Otherwise

SEA WANHAKA YACHT CLUB COOLER
    Complimenting a well-known yacht club.
                (goblet)
                Whole peel of one Lemon
                Two lumps Ice
                One jigger Whiskey
                Fill with Ginger Ale
SELTZER LEMO~ADE
            (lemon)
            Juice of one Lemon
            One-half spoon Sugar
                  , Seltzer; stir slowly
            Fill with
SHANDYGAFF        (pitcher)
                  One bottle Ginger Ale
                  One bottle Bass Ale
                  Mix
SHERIDAN PUNCH
    Some say this was named after General Philip Sheridan,
 famous Union cavalry officer during the Civil War. Some
 advance the claim of Richard Brinsley Sheridan, the Irish
 dramatist; and there are advocates of Pat Sheridan, long
 head houseman of the Waldorf, for the honor of being god-
 father to this punch. WeH, they were "Jl Irishmen, or of
 Irish descent, and an Irish barman composed the drink:
                   (lemonade)
                   Plain Lemonade
                  Whiskey on top
SHERRY AND EGG
             (claret)
             One-fourth glass Sherry
             One Egg
             Fill glass with Sherry
             Serve with napkin
                          [ 219]
       Old Waldorf Bar Days




                        SHERRY CHICKEN
                    (goblet)
                    Egg-nog; made with Sherry

SHERRY COBBLER
            (goblet)
            One-fourth spoon Sugar
            One pony of Water
            One and one-half jigger Sherry
            Stir; fill with Ice; fruit

SHERRY FLIP         (star)
                    One Egg
                    One-half spoon Sugar
                    One jigger Sherry
                    Shake; strain; grate Nutmeg on top

SILVER FIZZ         (fiz°i)
                    Gin Fizz, with White of Egg
                    Fill with Seltzer

SINGLE STANDARD
    This belongs to .the same period, and has an origin similar
  to that of Double Standard Sour and Free Silver Fizz.
                   (goblet)
                   Rickey, made with Whiskey
                            [ 220]
                     Fancy Potations and Otherwise




SMALLBEER ,
                   (pony) ,
                   Three-fourths Creme de Cacao
                   One-fourth Cream
                      I
SNOWBALL           (Collins)
                   White of one Egg
                   One-half spoon Sugar
                   One jigger Medford Rum
                   Shake; strain; fill with Ginger Ale
SOOTHER            (goblet)
                   One-half spoon Sugar
                   Juice one-half Lemon
                   One pony Brandy
                   One p.ony Jamaica Rum
                   One-half pony Cura~ao
                   One spoon pure Apple Juice
                   Shake; strain
SOUTHERN SOUR
                  (star)
                 St. Croix Sour, with Claret on top
STONE FENCE
   Not so hard to get over as some stone fences.
                  (fizz)
                 Two lumps Ice
                 One jigger Whiskey
                 Fill glass with Cider
                 Serve with spoon
                           [ 221 ]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days

STEINWAY PUNCH
    Named after Charles Steinway, a well-known gourmet
  a~d patron of the old Waldorf, who made a fortune in
  pianos.
                  (lemonade)
                  Muddle one-half Lemon
                  One-half spoon Sugar
                  One jigger Whiskey
                  Fill with Seltzer
                  Stir; strain; Fruit

STRAWBERRY FIZZ
            (lemonade)
            One pony Strawberry Syrup
            Juice of one-half Lemon
            One jigger Tom Gin
            Shake; strain; fill from siphon


SUI SETTE         (lemonade)
                  Break one Egg in glass
                  Juice of one Lemon
                  One-third jigger I tali an Verm u th
                  Two-thirds jigger Brandy
                  Two dashes Absinthe
                  Dne spoon Sugar
                  Frappe and fill with Carbonic


SUISSESSE         (star)
                  Three-quarters jigger Absinthe
                  One-fourth pony Anisette
                  Shake well; strain; fill from siphon
    These two drinks, one would think, would belong to the
  same family, and the root of the word would indicate that
  there was something Swiss about them. Perhaps the Suis-
                           [ 222]




                                       I}
                     Fancy Potations and Otherwise

  sesse, because of the Anisette, was French Swiss, and the
  Suisette, because of the Italian Vermuth, Italian Swiss.
  Both were Absinthe drinks, and the Suissesse was much
  stronger. None of the surviving Waldorf scholars, however,
  seems to be up on their origin.

SUNSHINE
                    (lemonade)
                    Juice one-half Lime and one-half
                       Orange
                    White of one Egg
                  ··Jigger of Gin or Whiskey
                    Fizz with Carbonic

SYMPHONY OF MOIST JOY
   This seems to have been a rhapsody in cordials.
                  (star)
                 Wine glass of shaved Ice
                 One-fourth Creme de Rose
                 One-fourth Yellow Chartreuse
                 One-fourth Creme de Menthe
                 One-fourth Cognac
                 Berries on top

THREE-QUARTER
            (sherry)
            One-third Yellow Chartreuse
            One-third Cura<;ao
            One-third Brandy

TOM COLLINS        (Collins)
                   Juice of one-half Lemon
                   One-half spoon Sugar
                   One jigger Tom Gin
                   Shake; strain; fill with plain Soda
                   See John Collins
                           [ 223]
      Old Waldoif Bar Days

TOM AND JERRY
             Beat six Eggs well, adding Powdered
              Sugar until very thick, working
              out all lumps
            Pour one-half tablespoon of this
               batter into mug
            One-half jigger Brandy
            One-half jigger Jamaica Rum
            Fill with very hot Water
            Add Nutmeg
            Serve with napkin
VELVET               One pint Wine (Champagne)
                     One pint Dublin Stout
VICTORY SWIZZLE
    Named in honor either of Dewey's victory at Manila Bay
 or of the Battle of Santiago. However, Swizzles were first
 imported to the United States from Cuba by American
  naval officers; besides, Santiago de Cuba is known for the
 manufacture of rum; hence the claims of the Santiago vic-
  tory seem to outweigh those of that of Manila Bay.
                    Equal parts of
                       Irish Whiskey, Holland Gin and
                      Jamaica Rum, with juice of one-
                       half Lemon
WALDORF FRAPPE
            Apricotine and Lime Juice, equal
              parts
                 .
WALDORF PUNCH
            (goblet)
           ·Whiskey, with Claret floated on top
WARD EIGHT
                     Whiskey Sour, with Grenadine
                            [ 224]




                                         /, /
                   Fancy Potations and Otherwise

WHISKEY AND MINT
            (whiskey)
            Three sprigs Mint
            One-half lump Sugar, dissolved;
              press Mint lightly
            One jigger Whiskey
            Small lump of Ice

WHISKEY AND TANSY
             (whiskey)
             Three leaves of Tansy, or a pony of
              1
                Tansy Mixture
             One jigger Whiskey
WHISKEY DAISY
             (fizz)
             Juice of one-half Lemon
             One-half spoon Sugar '
             One pony Raspberry Syrup
             One jigger Whiskey
             Shake; strain; fil~ from siphon

WHISKEY FIZZ (fizz)              .
             Juice of one-half Lemon
             One spoon Sugar ...
             One jigger Whiskey
             Shake; strain; fill from siphon

WHISKEYFIZZNo. z
            (whiskey)
            One-half spoon Sugar
            One-half pony of Water
            Three or four lumps Ice
            One jigger Whiskey
            Three slices of Fruit
            Serve with spoon
                         [ 225]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days

WHISKEY FLIP (star)
             One Egg
             One-half spoon Sugar
             One jigger Whiskey
             Shake; strain; Nutmeg grated on top



WHISKEY MILK PUNCH
             (goblet)
            One-half spoon Sugar
            One jigger Whiskey
             Fill three-quarters with Milk
            Shake well; strain; Nutmeg on top



WrIISKEY MINT JULEP
             (goblet)
             Three sprigs Mint
             One-half spoon Sugar
             One pony of Water
             Press well and add one jigger
               Whiskey
             Stir; strain well



WHISKEY PUNCH
            (goblet)
            Juice of one-half Lemon
            One-half spoon Sugar
            One pony of Water
            Fill glass two-thirds with fine Ice
            One jigger Whiskey
            Stir; fruit well in season
                         [ 226]




                                   11
                      Fancy Potations and Otherwise

WHISKEY SLING
             (whiskey)
             One-halflump Sugar
             One-half pony Water
             Orie jigger Whiskey
             Four or five drops Lemon Juice
             One piece Lemon Peel
             One lump Ice
             Serve ':with spoon

                  I

WHISKEY SMASH
            (fizz)
            Three sprigs of Mint
            Fill with fine Ice in mixing glass
            Two more sprigs of Mint
            One-quarter spoon Sug;i.r
            One-half pony of Water
            Press well and add one jigger
               Whiskey
            Stir; strain; fruit well; Mint on top


WHISKEY SOUR
                  (star)
                  Juice of one-half Lemon
                  One-half spoon Sugar
                  One-half pony of Water
                                             *
                  One jigger Whiskey
                  Stir well; strain; Fruit
                     in glass

    The above twelve whiskey drinks show only some of the
  numerous ways of applying that variety of bottled thunder
  in the old days.
                            [ 227]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days

WHISPERS OF THE FROST
    One drink-and if one didn't begin to hear the whispers
 at least one began to see something.
                  (goblet)
                  Equal parts of
                     Whiskey, Sherry, and Port Wine
                  Add Sugar to taste
                  Fruit well; Ice


WIDOW'S KISS
    Just why the author of this drink should ascribe so many
 tastes to the osculation of some gentleman's relict, or who
 was the widow whose kiss was thus commemorated, it has
 been impossible to establish. One could only suggest that,
 as most of these various components are now said to be un-
 attainable in these parts-at least in guaranteed purity,-
 someone with an inquiring mind might catch a widow and
 experiment with direct labial contact.
                     (sherry)
                  One-quarter Parfait d'Amour
                  One-quarter Yellow Chartreuse
                  One-quarter Benedictine
                  White of one Egg, beaten, on top
                  On the last, put slice of Strawberry




                         [ 228]
                      PART VIII

                      Glossa:ry
F   OR THE benefit of antiquarians and serious students
     of American mores to whom the names of once fa-
miliar spirits may appear as words of a, forgotten tongue,
the author has deemed it expedient to append a brief
glossary, which may serve as a key to parts of the fore-
going compendium.
   It is to be assumed that most readers of this volume
enjoy at least a passing acquairrtance with certain in-
gredients once employed in the composition of what
were commonly called fancy drinks~ but by connoisseurs
were often acclaimed as symphonies. For example, there
was water, which as every student of chemistry should
know is simply H 20-not to be confounded with H 2SQ4,
a fluid of the same transparent quality, but of slightly
different properties. Then there was ice, or H 20 solidi-
fied by the application of extreme cold. There was sugar
-to the laboratory-wise identified as C12H22011-and
salt, recognized without difficulty as NaCl2.
   "Berries," as used in the text, it should be empha-
                          [ 229]
       Old Waldorf Bar Days
 sized, does not mean dollars-simply small fruit usu-
 ally growing on vines or diminutive plants. "Mug," as
 employed, does not signify a face, or "to photograph,"
 as commonly applied these days; but a container made
 of glass, crockery, or stone, with a handle, and used for
 dispensing ale, cider, or, infrequently, beer. A "lemon"
 was then not what you were handed in an approach to
 a confidence transaction, but a small yellow fruit; and
 "lemon peel," of course, was the rind.
   The word "Egg," as frequently used, should be taken
in a literal and primitive sense. In the days with which
we are dealing, the term "Pittsburgh Steel Millionaire"
had not yet been synonymously superseded in Manhat-
tanese by "Big Butter and Egg Man," and at the old
Waldorf Bar "Good Egg" was synchronous and syn-
onymous with "Fresh Egg." Whatever metaphorical
or sinister sense either has come later to assume, each
then meant simply a natural output of a female of the
chicken species, and in fair condition. A "Nutmeg" was,
and still is, the aromatic kernel of the fruit of a tree of
the Myristica family.
   "Cock's Comb" as used, meant literally what it says,
however incredible to those who think only of a cow or
a goat when they turn to the barnyard for something
to drink. As an elective concomitant, if not an ingredi-
ent, of the Cfianticleer cocktail, a Cock's Comb was a
ruddy, serrated, distinctive capital decoration peculiar
to the mascul~ne chicken. It was pickled or bottled as
a sweetmeat in France, often with other elemental com-
ponents of departed roosters, particularly what are
known to high-class grocers and certain gourmets as
                          [ 230]
                                            Glossary
"Financieres." The Cock's Comb and the Financiere are
still reputed among the ultrasophisticated to possess vir-
tues akin to those of certain simian appropriations rec-
ommended by a distinguished Slavic surgeon. Indeed,
the manager of one well-known mart for rare comesti-
bles and delicacies stoutly maintained to the writer that
the combination is in great and growing demand. To
prove his assertion, he ·called for a bottle from the shelf,
and asked his clerks to bear witness. Which they did.
   "Ginger ale" i.& perhaps better known than in pre-
prohibition days, so it should be unnecessary to define
it, except so far as to say that "imported" ginger ale in
those days meant that the product had been manufac-
tured in some other country than the United States. An
"orange," of course, signified about what it does to-day,
though "orange peel" then meant a good deal more, as
in the compendium there will be found numerous con-
coctions in which it was used for flavoring purposes.
"Mint," a pungent herb commonly found in kitchen
gardens, formerly filled a noble office in certain parts of
this country-particularly below Mason and Dixon's
line, and most notably, perhaps, m Kentucky, though
in other states great pride was exhibited by many citi-
zens in the virtues of a compound whose recipe, they
claimed, had been handed down in some particular fam-
ily for generations past. Nowadays, however, it seems
to be more closely identified with the chewing gum in-
dustry than anything else. To refer back to "berries,"
and to include with them the more inclusive ·subject of
"fruit," the word "raspberry" had not become synony-
mous with "horse's laugh" or anything else anatomical,
                           [ 231 ]
      Old Waldorf Bar Days
and the expression "give him the raspberry" had not
come into common use. Nor had "strawberries" entered
 the realm of slang. Berries were berries and fruits were
fruits. It was a simpler age. A pimola was a green olive
stuffed with pimento.
   A few processes employed by professors in the Amer-
ican School of Drinking, and named here and there,
seem to call for some clarification.
   For example, to "muddle" meant to mash and stir up
one or more ingredients, and had no objective reference
to the person who was getting the drink; to "cup" meant
either to shape or use as a cup, or to place in the bottom
of a cup or glass; to "frappe" meant to cool with ice.
More frequently than not, a bar-tender averse to the
vigorous and more than local exercise demanded by ply-
ing a cocktail-shaker achieved a similar effect by the
finger-and-wrist method of gently stirring a few lumps
of ice with a spoon.
   Two terms ofliquid measurement employed m ay need
explanation to the younger generation. A "split," for in-
stance, did not necessarily concern a Terpsichorean
achievement or divertisement, bµt simply meant half an
ordinary bottle of aerated or flavored H20, or else a bot-
tle of h alf the regular size. A "dash" demands more elab-
orate definition. Often in a bottle-neck was a device that
held a metal quill. A "dash," in the sense of measure-
ment, was the quantity of liquid discharged from the
bottle when the. bar-tender, elevating the vessel shoul-
d~-high, pointed it in the direction of the mixture he
was concocting, and brought it down sharply and swiftly
to within a few inches of the same. By carefully gauging
                         [ 232]




                                     II
                                           Glossary
the angle of incidence-anywhere from forty-five de-
grees to a perpendicular, the barman thus released what
he often claimed to be the exact number of minims re-
quired for perfect composition. Or, the formula might
call for two, or three dashes or more (q.v.).
   In the list qf cocktails· and other drinks, it will be
noted that in some cases the direction given is "shake,"
while in others it is "stir." Johnnie Solon is authority
for an explanation. which, after all, is a simple physical
fact.               ·




pendium. The term "voltage," given
where it is known, signifies "horse-
power," "kick,"or"alcoholic content,"
and is used as being more in accord
with this age of electricity.




                         [ 2 33]
                      Definitions
ABSINTHE-Usually a green, bitter, aromatic liquor, im-
 pregnated with wormwood, though there was also a white
 variety manufactured in France. Deriv., Latin, absinthium,
 "wormwood." Long a resort for parodists in such lines as
 "Absinthe makes the heart grow fonder." Taken "neat"
 and often, was guaranteed to produce visions of snakes, etc.
 Voltage, 58.93.

ANISETTE-A liquor made in France by distillation from
 anise seed. Voltage, 42.

AROMATIC SPIRITS OF AMMONIA-A fragrant distil-
 lation from a colorless, pungent, suffocating gas (NHs) ob-
 tained from nitrogenous organic bodies, such as coal, bones,
 blood, etc.

APPLE-JACK-Often used synonymously with apple whis-
 key and supposed to be a distillation. However, certain sur-
 viving bartenders have authorized a statement that either
 was usually nothing more or less than cider, "hardened"
 by age.

BENEDICTINE-A cordial or liqueur, distilled for centuries
 at Fecamp, in France, by the Benedictine monks. Its com-
 position was kept secret and some persons believed its dis-
 tillation was accompanied by religious rites. However, after
 the French .Revolution, discovery was made that it could
 be produced by the laity and by strictly secular methods.
 Its components have been kept a trade secret, but it was
 believed to contain the volatile constituents of cardamom
 seeds, arnica flowers, angelica root, lemon peel, thyme, nut-
 megs, cassia, hyssop, peppermint, and cloves. Imitation of
 Benedictine is not so much a part of prohibition history as
 patrons of bootleggers may have become convinced. As a
 matter of fact, such has been going on in France and else-
 where for generations, the average customer who did not
                           [ 234]
                                              Glossary
  know being satisfied if the bottle was queer and squat and
  bore the initials "D.O.M." Voltage, 52.

BIITERS-Beverages containing alcohol, together with a
  component for cathartic effect. Best known varieties: An-
  gostura, made from the bark of a South American tree;
  Calisaya, synonymous wit;h cinchona or quinine, also of
  South Americah origin; Orange; Boonekamp, made in Ger-
  many; Baker's, Amer Pic~n (which a stenographer rendered
  for me "American Pecan>-" but which was really a French
  proprietary proposition); Hostetter's, West Indies, Pepsin,
  Peychaud (made in New Orleans); Fernet Branca, etc. So
  named from the us~al bitter taste.

BRANDY-(Sometimes called "cognac," from a town in
 France noted for its manufacture.) Alcoholic liquor distilled
 from wine. Deriv., Dutch brandewijn, meaning "burnt
 wine." Was also made from the juice of apricots, peaches,
 apples c.tr other fruit by distillation, and called liqueur.
 Cognac was often called for by the name of its maker: e.g.,
 "Hennessy," or "Martel"; though it was often referred to
 by the symbol printed on its label,"***" or"*****,"
 as indulgers frequently proved unable to read when ready
 for an encore. Voltage,, 53+

CHARTREUSE-A distillation with brandy of certain rare
 herbs, used as a cordial or liqueur. The name was derived
 from the fact that Chartreuse, like Benedictine, owed its
 invention to early French monks, who knew about what
 they wanted and got it. These monks were of the Carthu-
 sian Order, and the liqueur was made only at their mon-
 astery in the Grande Chartreuse, in the French Alps. The
 formula for its preparation was said to be known only to
 the Father Superior of the Order. When the monks were
 expelled from France, in 1903, they spirited the secret of
 its preparation to Tarragona, in Spain, whence comes an
 herb much esteemed by gourmets in the treatment of vine-
 gar. Rival manufactories were then set up in France, but
                            [ 235 ]
        Old Waldorf Bar Days

  their product was never so good as the original brand. Some
  thirty years or so before their expulsion, the Carthusian
  monks had suffered a big loss in the destruction of their
  brandy warehouses, wherein was stored what was said to
  be the largest stock of old Napoleon brandy in existence.
  Even before prohibition came, as much as twenty dollars
  a bottle was paid in New York for Chartreuse dated 1869
  or before. While the monks have kept their formula a secret,
  analysts have named among the ingredients of Chartreuse:
  balm leaves, orange peel, dried hyssop tops, peppermint,
  wormwood, angelica seed and root, cinnamon, mace, cloves,
  Tonka beans, calamus aromaticus and cardamom. Some of
  the flavor, if not virtues of the product, however, was as-
  cribed to certain herbs which were said to grow only in the
  neighborhood of the Grande Chartreuse. There were three
  varieties of Chartreuse-yellow, green, and white. Voltage,
  43·
CREME DE CACAO-An extract of cocoa, made in France . .
 Used as a cordial or liqueur.

CREME . DE CASSIS-A liqueur made in France of black
 currants, whose voltage still causes headaches to some who
 recall its potency.

CREME DE MENTHE-A distillation of mint, or of brandy
 flavored with mint. Usually gre.e n in color, though there
 was also a wnite variety. By those who could not pronounce
 its name correctly, it was often called "green mint," or
 "white mint," menthe being the French word for " mint."
 It was usually maµ e in France. Voltage, 48.

CR:E.ME YVETTE-An extract of violets, used for flavoring
  purposes; also drunk as a cordial or liqueur. Its perfume
 often gave it preference over the common or garden refuge
 of the drinking dissembler-a clove or peppermint lozenge
 - before the commercial discovery of halitosis. Made in
 New York.
                           [ 236]




                                            J _____ _
                                                Glossary
CURA~AO-Often mispronounced "Curacoa," especially by
   Englishmen. A liquor made by distilling spirits with orange
   peel and certain spices. Manufactured originally in Hol-
   land. Name derived from that of a Dutch island off the
   north coast of South America. Voltage, 55.

DUBONNET-A proprietary French bitters or tonic, one of
 whose ingredients was sai.d to be quinine.

GIN- Originally a dr.ink distilled from malt or other grain
 and afterwards rectified with and flavored with juniper ber-
 ries. Manufactu red in Holland, under the name of Hol-
 lands, Schiedam, and Schnapps. For the effect of Schnapps,
 see Washington Irving's tale of that sterling New Yorker
 of pre-war times, Rip Van Winkle. Also manufactured in
 England under various names, notably: Gordon, Booth's,
 Old Tom, Nicholson, Plymouth, House, of Lords, etc.
 Among the lower classes of London, "gin' is alcohol, fla-
 vored with oil of turpentine and common salt. The term
 is often used generically for "bad liquor." In some parts of
 the Cotton Belt, "gin" signifies a ~everage whose effects
 are momentarily synonymous with those produced by the
 saws of a cotton gin-'from which it is not derived. The
 actual derivation is from the Dutch jenever, itself coming
 from the old French wordjenevre, meaning juniper. Gin was
 sometimes called "Geneva," or "Geneva Water," and as-
 cribed to Swiss invention; but it is interesting to note that
 the country of which Geneva is the capital has lately leg-
 islated itself away from association with strong drink. Volt-
 age, 54·3·

SLOE GIN-Not to be confused with the real gin, and it
  should be noted that as compared with real gin, its effects
  are described by its first name, differently spelled. Sloe Gin
  is a sort of cordial made by distillation from a small, plum-
  like, astringent fruit, or a distillation flavored with the
  same.
                             [ 237]
       Old Waldorf Bar Days

GRAND MARNIER-A cordial, or liqueur, made in France
 from oranges.
GRENADINE-A red syrup or cordial, said to be made from
 pomegranates; manufactured in France.
KIRSCH or KIRSCHWASSER-A liquor distilled from Eu-
 ropean wild cherries, and made in Germany and other cen-
 tral European countries.
KUMMEL or KIMMEL-A liquor made generally from
 highly rectified alcohol, flavored with cumin (a plant of the
 parsley family) and caraway seeds. Before the War it was
 manufactured chiefly at Riga, Russia. Voltage, 33.9.
MARASCHINO (pronounced "maraskeeno")-A cordial dis-
 tilled from fermented cherries and flavored with bruised
 pits. Deriv., Italian, marasquino.
OJEN-A cordial made in New Orleans, La., and flavored
 with absinthe.
ORGEAT-A syrup made in France from sugar, orange
 flower water and almonds. Deriv., French, from Latin, hor-
 det,f.m, barley.
PARFAIT D'AMOUR-A red cordial whose composition
 was a proprietary secret, but whose name often assured
  those who had a slight acquaintance with French that it
 was a sort of"love potion.
RUM-Generally, the name of any alcoholic liquor. Used as
 an adjective, colloquial English for "queer" or "peculiar."
 Specifically, an alcoholic liquor distilled from fermented
 molasses, or cane juice. Varieties usually named from coun-
 try of origin-Jamaica, Swedish, St. Croix (West Indies),
 Cuban-better known as Bacardi or Santiago-and Japa-
 nese (usually called Sake and distilled from fermented rice).
 Deriv., abbreviation of "rumbullion" or "rumbooze." The
 latter term is composed of the gypsy word rom or rum,
 meaning "good," and "booze," a corruption of the Dutch
                           [ 238]




                                              II
                                             Glossary

  bouse, meaning to "guzzle," but now used as a good English
  word with a sinister meaning. The manufacture of rum was
  at one time an important New England industry, antedating
  that of cotton cloth and, according to recent biographers,
  notable early Americans, including the Father of his Coun-
  try, found it exceedingly palatable. Voltage, 53.7.

SHERRY-Originally meant the white wine of Jerez, Spain,
 from whose name it was derived. Jerez was pronounced
 "Hareth," or "Berreth." The English corruption may have
 been due to excessive sibilance manifested by the original
 Britisher who drank a bottle and demanded more. Voltage,
 19.

SODA, SIPHON, PLAIN SODA, CARBONIC, SELTZER,
  VICHY-Water charged with gas and discharged into a
  glass by pressing a lever controlling the metal vent of a
  siphon. CLUB SODA, aerated water in a. small bottle.
  LEMON SODA, the same with a flavor of synthetic lemon.
  DELATOUR SODA, a brand of a particular manufacturer.
  The word VICHY was a misnomer, appropriated from that
  of the famous water bottled at Vichy, France, by the
  French Government.

SWEDISH PUNSCH-A beverage manufactured in Sweden
 of which little information is available in these longitudes
 except that its voltage was 26.3.

VERMUTH-A liquor made from white wine, flavored with
 aromatic herbs. Formerly, of the two varieties, the Italian,
 or sweet, was made in Italy, and the French, or sec (dry),
 was manufactured in France. Deriv., German, wermuth,
 meaning "wormwood." In the country of its origin, Ver-
 muth was often drunk "neat," that is to say, unmixed with
 water or more potent liquids. Voltage, about 17.

VIN MARIANI-A wine made in France from cocoa, and
 formerly very much advertised as a tonic.
                           [ 239]
       Old Waldorf Bar Days

WHISKEY-Less comprehensive in definition than in these
 days, whiskey formerly denoted an alcoholic liquor ob-
 tained by the distillation of a fermented starchy compound,
 usually a grain. Deriv., Gaelic, uisgebeatha, "water of life."
 For many years an important American manufacturing
 product, particularly engaging large numbers of the citizens
 of Baltimore, Pittsburgh and Louisville, with Peoria, Ill.,
 and other centers of culture trailing along. Varieties: rye
 whiskey, made from that product; corn whiskey, called
 "Bourbon" if manufactured in Kentucky, but turned out
 as "White Mule" and under other names in illicit distilleries
 throughout the South; "Scotch," named for the country of
 its origin and popularly supposed to be made of oatmeal,
 the national dish, turned into spirits by the aid of peat
 fires, but more probably of barley; "Irish," made in Ireland,
 but of what the encyclopedia refuses to divulge; etc. Most
 names synonymous with whiskey were those of its partic-
 ular manufacturers; surviving names from a pre-prohibition
 past being "Haig and Haig," "Antiquary," "Perfection,"
 "D ewar ' s, " "Wh.1te L a be,l " "J o hnny W a lker, " etc. "P n-
                                                                  .
 vate stock" meant either a brand of whiskey bottled for
 some particular bar or its owner, or a bottle kept for the
 use of a particular customer.

WINE-Formerly the juice of grapes, fermented by nature,                (
 in course of time. Varieties named in the compendium in-
 clude Claret, the ordinary red wine of certain districts in
 France (voltage, 13.3).; Burguncl.y, the heavy red wine of
 Bourgogne, 'France (voltage, 13.6); Madeira, the wine of
 the Portuguese Island of that name; Port, a wine whose
 name came from the Portuguese city of Oporto, whence it
 was exported; Rhin$!., meaning a wine made of grapes grown
 in the Rhine valley; Beaune, wines both red and white,
 made in the vicinity of Beaune, France, and about the same
 voltage as .Burgundy; Bordeaux, made of grapes grown in
 the territory contiguous to the city of Bordeaux, France
 (voltage, 11.5); Champagne, an effervescent wine made be-
 fore the war in the Marne region of France, particularly at
 Rheims (voltage, 12.2).
                                                                      •,•




                                                 II
                                              Glossary




BAR GLASSES-In seeking'        to obtain accurate definitions
 for the various containers in which were set forth the com-
 positions of professors in that Academy of Fine Art with
 which we are dealing, one has discovered almost as many
 disagreements among its surviving experts as are said to
 exist among doctors. The memories of men who were among
 our best mixers-in the days when "good•mixer" had an-
 other besides its present application-exhibit almost start-
 ling variations. Even when one stood a barman long retired
 to private life, before an imposing array of glassware at
 Lewis& Conger's, he looked at them long and then shook his
 head.
    "What they drink from these days is not what used to
 be," he said, sadly. So what follows as "definitions" is at
 best only an approach to a consensus of recollection. As a
 matter of fact, in first-class bars the shapes and sizes of
 glasses varied. The old Waldorf barmen exhibited a
 preference for thick glasses, the thin ones, except where cer-
  tain drinks seemed to demand them, being kept for display.
 They were costly, and very easy to break.
    Among the glasses mentioned as proper for the service
 of the fancy potations before listed, the name "star" ap-
  pears frequently. According to surviving authorities on bar-
  containers of the period, among them the Dean of a once-
  famous chapter of the American School of Drinking, famed
  as "The Hole in the Wall," whose secret location in the rear
  of Charles & Company's fruit store was known only to the
                             [ 241]
     Old Waldorf Bar Days

 peculiarly elect, a "star" was synonymous with a SOUR glass.
 With him, Johnnie Solon agrees.
    The SOUR glass, so called because it was used for "sours"
 of various kinds, held from five and a half to six ounces.
 The LEMONADE was originally a thick goblet, but in time
 it became a thin, straight-sided glass, holding from six to
 eight ounces. The latter was originally the same as a FIZZ
 or a HIGH-BALL glass. The COLLINS started out by being an
 eight-ounce glass, but a demand for a longer drink led to
 the adoption of a twelve- or even a sixteen-ounce glass-
 one that, besides the gin and the ice, would hold a "split"
 of soda. The CHAMPAGNE was usually a wide-bowled, thin-
stemmed goblet; often, however, a thin four-ounce tumbler,
was used, the same being also called an APOLLINARIS glass.
A SHERRY glass was a small glass with a sharp, conical bowl,
holding from three-quarters of an ounce to about an ounce
and a third. A PONY was identical with a small liqueur glass,
and held a scant ounce. A PoussE CAFE glass was an elon-
gated pony, holding about an ounce and a half. A WHISKEY
was a thin, low, straight-sided vessel holding about four
ounces. The CLARET, a thin goblet, held from three and a
half to four ounces.
   The JIGGER was a conical metal container, holding about
two ounces. In many establishments its use was abandoned
in favor of the barman's eye. He was supposed to be able
to gauge a jigger-fol when pouring from a bottle in com-
posing mixed drinks. In first-class establishments, the cus-
tomer was usually pi:;rmitted to measure his own whiskey
when he took it "neat," or in a high-ball.




                                                                -·
              ACKNOWLED.GMENT

is made to the American Mercury for permission to
   reprint certain material contained in an article
     by the author in the issue of February, 1930.
II
                  BOOKS
    by ALBERT STEVENS CROCKETT



PEACOCKS ON p ARADE

       Sears Publishing Company, New York


WHEN ]AMES GORDON BENNETT
WAS CALIPH OF BAGDAD

       Funk & Wagnalls Company, New York


REVELATIONS OF LOUISE

       Frederick A. Stokes Company, New York
              0




DITTIES FROM A DITTY-BAG

       S. L. Parsons Company, New York
IJ
AVENTINE PRESS, INC.
        NEW YORK



      First edition
Designed and Printed by the
Press of A. Colish, NewYork
II
.,
