'.
..




\'
     Here's Our Hand
    We congratulate the publisher of this important
    contribut ion to the hotel, restaurant and cafe
    b siness. To him, and to the tlsers of this volume,
    we extend our greetings-a hearty welcome back.
    Just as this volume recalls old memories and
    restores them to present day living, so sparkling,
    thin-blowm. Libbey Safedge glassware adds appeal
    and great er enjoyment to the beverages which
r
    are served in it.

      THE LIBBEY GLASS MANUFACTURING CO.
                   T oledo, Ohio



         Offices

          and

     Display Rooms
                         ta
                          ~
                            Safed_l!e
                                              New York
                                                  Chicago
                                             San Francisco
                                                  Atlanta


                   Guaranteed A gainst Chipping
          4'   q.   I




          By R. C. MILLER


  cat, CJJrink and be 8',tJerry
     'But be 7'emperate in
          cAll 7'hings


                        ~

        First Edition .    z885
        Second Edition . . i933




           Price • • $2.00


COPYRIGHT REGISTERED U.S. PATENT OFFICE
                                              '



  POP-PI-YA                                       )




   WINE

~HIS is a delicious blend of choice
- l9 California and imported fruits. It
        has the bouquet and flavour. In
making punch in which wine is used we             '
recommend Pop-Pi-Ya wine as it is virtually
            a punch in itself.




            fJvfanufactured Only CJ3y

   R. C. MILLER & SON
         OAKLAND, CALIFORNIA
   REGISTERED U.S. PATENT OFFICE
·I
                           PREFACE
       In presenting this second edition of the American Bar
     Guide to the public, it is desired to give a most complete
     compilation of all the known recipes of value that the
     Author has been able to develop in many years of experi-
     ence in catering to the public.

        One will find herein a correct formula for making or
     mixing most any drink that his fanc y may desire.
                   A LOST ART
   The art of mixing drinks has been lost, as it were, and
the man of today will, without the use of a proper guide,
experience difficulty in preparing a drink that at one time
was much sought after by those who were patrons of the
best hotels and clubs throughout the country.
    All of the formulas given herein have been tested many,
many times by the Author in his many years of experience
and to the man who is catering to the public or the man
in the home who would give his guests the best to be had,
he will find this volume most welcome.
   In preparing this edition the Author wishes to acknowl-
edge with gratitude the assistance that has been given to
make this work complete.
   A number of the formulas herein are from the best
hotels and clubs of Germany, France, England, Spain,
and all Europe, as well as the best in America.
   In the hope that the best hotels and clubs and the man
at home in our fair land may enjoy the best in good, whole-
some drinks, to him this volume is dedicated.
                                        THE AUTHOR.
              IN MAKING PUNCH
         Use the best of ingredients.
         Make it as attractive as possible.
         Always serve with a smile.




                      I. PUNCH
    'Fo make punch of any sort in perfection, the ambrosial
essence of the lemon must be extracted by rubbing lumps
of sugar on the rind, which breaks the delicate little ves-
sels that contain the essence, and at the same time absorbs
it. This, and making the mixture sweet and strong, using
tea instead of water, and thoroughly amalgamating all
the compounds, so that the taste of neither the bitter, the
sweet, the spirit, nor the element, shall be perceptible one
over the other, is the grand secret, only to be acquired by
practice.

   In making hot toddy, or hot punch, you must put in
the spirits before the water; in cold punch, grog, &c.,
the other way.

   The precise portions of spirit and water, or even of the
acidity and sweetness, can have no general rule, as scarcely
two persons make punch alike.
                   2. Brandy Punch
                    (Use la rg e ba r g lass )
   1 tablespoonful raspben:y syrup.
   2        do.       w hite sugar.
   1 wine-glass w ater.
   10      do.    brand y.
   0 small-sized lemon.
   2 slices of orange.
   1 piece of pineapple.
   Fill the tu mbl er w ith shaved ice, shake weU, and d ress
the top with berries in season; sip throu gh a straw .


                   3. Brandy Punch
                   ( Fo r a pa rty of t we nty ) ®
   I gallon of wa ter.
  3 quarts of brand y.
   Yi pint of J amaica rum.
  2 lbs. of sugar.
  Ju ice of 6 lemons.
  3 oranges sliced.
   I pineapple, pared, and cut up.
  1 gill of Curacoa.
  2 gills of raspberry syrup.
  Ice, and add berri es in season.
  M ix· the materials well together m a large bow l, a nd
you have a splendid punch.



                4. Mississippi Punch
                  (Use large b eer g la s s)
  1 w ine-glass of brand y.
  %      do.      J amaica rum.
  0      do.       Bourbon w hiskey.
  0      do.      water.
                              2
   I ,Yi tablespoon of pow dered w hite suga r.
   ~    of a large lemon.
   F ill a tumbler w ith shaved ice.
    The above must be well shaken, and to those w ho like
 their draughts " like linked sweetness long draw n out,"
 let them use a glass tube or straw to sip the nectar through.
 The top of this punch should be ornamented w ith small
 pieces of orange, and berries in season.



            5. Hot Brandy and Rum Punch
                     (For a pa rty of fi fteen )   @
   I quart 0£ J amaica rum.
   I    do.      Cognac brandy.
   I lb. of w hite loaf-sugar.
   4 lemons.
   3 quarts of boiling water.
   I teaspoonful of nutmeg.
  Rub the sugar over the lemons until it has absorbed all
the yellow part of the skins, then put the sugar into a
punch-bow l; add the ingredients well together, pour over
them the boiling water ; stir well together ; add the rum,
brandy and nutmeg ; m ix thoroughly, and the punch will
be ready to serve.



                6. Irish Whiskey Punch
   This is the genuine Irish beverage. It is generally made
one-third pure w hiskey, tw o-thi rds boiling water, in w hich
the sugar has been dissolved. If lemon punch, the r ind
is rubbed on the sugar, and a small proportion of juice
added before the whiskey is poured in.
                                3
              7. Cold Whiskey Punch
                       (For a party)
  This beverage ought always to be made with boiling
water, and allowed to concoct and cool for a day or two
before it is put on the table. In this way the materials
get more intensely amalgamated than cold water and cold
whiskey ever get. As to the beautiful mutual adaptation
of cold rum and cold water, that is beyond all praise,
being one of Nature's most exquisite achievements. (See
"Glasgow Punclz," No. 29.)

             8. Scotch Whiskey Punch
  Steep the thin yellow shavings of lemon peel in the
whiskey, which should be Glenlivet or Islay, of the best
quality; the sugar should be dissolved in boiling water.
As it requires ge..nius to make whiskey punch, it would be
impertient to give proportions. (See "Spread Eagle
Punclz," No. 39.)

                 9. Whiskey Punch
                   (Use small bar glass)
  1 wine-glass whiskey (Irish or Scotch).
  2    do.      boiling water.
  Sugar to taste.
  Dissolve the sugar well with wine-glass of the water,
then pour in the whiskey, and add the balance of the water,
sweeten to taste, and put in a small piece of lemon rind,
or a thin slice of lemon.

                    I 0. Gin Punch
                    ( Use large bar glass)
  1 tablespoonful of raspberry syrup.
  2     do.   do.    white sugar.
  1 wine-glass of water.
                              4
   l ;h     do.      gin.
   0 small-sized lemon.
  2 slices of orange.
  1 piece of pineapple.
  Fill the tumbler with shaved ice.
  Shake well, and ornament the top with berries in season.
  Sip through a straw.


                      I I. Gin Punch
   ~ pint of old gin.
   1 gill ot maraschino.
   The juice of two lemons.
   The rind of half a lemon.
   Four ounces of syrup.
   1 quart bottle of Seltzer water.
   Ice well.


                  12. Champagne Punch
                            (Per bottle)
   1 quart bottle of wine.
   0 lb. of sugar.
   1 orange sliced.
   The juice ot a lemon.
   3 slices of pineapple.
   1 wine-glass of raspberry or strawberry syrup.
    Ornament with fruits in season, and serve in champagne
 glass.
     This can be made in any quantity by observing the
  proportions of the ingredients as given above. Four bottles
  of wine make a gallon, and a gallon is generally sufficient
  for fifteen persons in a mixed party. For a good cham-
  pagne punch, see "Rocky Mountain Punch," No. 43.
· Using champagne instead of Pop-Pi-Ya wine.
                                 5
                 13. Pop-Pi-Ya Punch
                    ( C se la rge b ar g lass )
  2 wine-glasses of Pop-Pi-Ya w ine.
  I tablespoonful of sugar.
  2 slices of orange.
  2     do.    lemon.
  Fili th e tumbler wi th shaved ice, shake well , and orn a-
ment with berries in season. Sip through a st raw.

                   14. Claret Punch
                    (Cse larg e ba r g lass )
   1 0 tablespoon fu l of sugar.
   1 slice of lemon.
   2 do. orange.
   Fili the tumbler w ith shaved ice, and then pour in your
claret, shake well, and ornament wi th berries in season.
Place a st raw in the glass. T o make a quantity of cl aret
punch , see " Im perial P unch," N o. 4 1.

                 15. Sauterne Punch
                                                                I
                    (Gse la rge ba r g la ss }
    The same as claret punch, using Sauterne instead of
cl aret.
                                                                1
                16. Port Wine Punch
                    (Gse la rge ba r g la ss }
   The same as claret punch, using por t w ine instead of
claret , and ornament w ith berries in seaso n.

                  17. Vanilla Punch
                   (Gse large ba r g lass )
  1 tablespoon fu l of suga r.
  1 w ine-glass of brandy.
  The juice of )i of a lemon .
                               6
  Fill the tumbler w ith shaved ice, shake well, ornament
with one or n vo slices of lemon, and flavor with a few
drops of vanilla ext ract.




                      Pineapple Punch

                    (For a pa rty of ten)   ®
  4 bottles of Pop-l?i-Ya wine.
   I pint of J amaica rum.
  I    do.     brandy.
   I gilrl of Curacoa.
  Juice of 4 lemons.
  .+ pineapples, sliced.
  Sweeten to taste with pulverized white sugar.
   Put the pineapple w ith one pound of sugar in a glass
bowl, and let them stand until the sugar is well soaked in
the pineapple, then add all the other ingredients, except
the Pop-Pi-Ya wine. Let this mixture stand in ice for
about an hour, then add the wine. Place a large block of
ice in the center of the bowl, and ornament it with loaf
sugar, sliced orange, and other fru its in season.




             19. Wine-After Bottling

   Wine after bottling should not be left standing up-
right, but placed into holes shaped r acks, bottles being
placed slantingly neck downward. Wine improves after
being bottled.
                             7
                  20. Curacoa Punch
                     (Use large bar glass)
    1 tablespoonful of sugar.
    1 wine-glass of brandy.
    Yi do. do. Jamaica rum.
    1   do. do. water.
    Yi pony glass of Curacoa.
    The juice of half a lemon.
    Fill the tumbler with shaved ice, shake well, and orna-
 ment with the £ruits of the season; sip the nectar through .
 a straw.

                   21. Roman Punch
                    (Use large bar glass)
    1 tablespoonful of sugar.
   1    do.      do. raspberry syrup.
   1 teaspoonful 0£ Curacoa.
   1 wine-glass of Jamaica rum.
   Yi do. do. brandy.
   The juice of half a lemon.
   Fill with shaved ice, shake well, dash with port wine
and ornament with fruits in season. Imbibe through a
straw.

                   22. Milk Punch
                   (Use large bar glass)
  1 tablespoonful of fine white sugar.
  2     do.       water.
  I wine-glass of Cognac brandy.
  Yi    do.       Santa Cruz rum.
  73 tumblerful of shaved ice.
  Fill with milk, shake the ingredients well together, and
grate a little nutmeg on top.
                            8
                  23. Hot Milk Punch
                     (Use large bar glass)
  This punch is made the same as No. 22 with the ex-
ception that hot milk is used, and no ice. '


                24. English Milk Punch
 . Put the following ingredients into a very clean pitcher,
VIZ:
  The juice of six lemons.
  The rind of two do.
   1 lb. of sugar.
   1 pineapple, peeled, sliced and pounded.
  6 cloves.
  20 coriander seeds.
   1 pint of brandy.
   1 do. rum.
 "'! gill of arrack. :: I t;-;u.. / ~ ti.. 0 J ·
                         e Sec No. 50.
                                                   c   '/. i;, LL s
  1 cup of strong green tea. ·
  1 quart of boiling water.
   The boiling water to be added last; cork this down to
prevent evaporation, and allow these ingredients to steep
for at least six hours; then add a quart of hot milk and
the juice of two lemons; mix, and filter through a jelly
bag; and when the punch has passed bright, put it away
in tight-corked bottles. This punch is intended to be iced
for di:inking.

                 25. English Milk Punch
                       (Another method)
  This seductive and nectareous drink can also be made
by the directions herewith given:
  To two quarts of water add one quart of milk. Mix one
quart of old Jamaica rum with two of F~ench brandy,
                               9
and put the spirit to the milk, stirring it for a short time;
let it stand for an hour, but do not suffer any one of
delicate appetite to see the melange in its present state,
as the sight might create a distaste for the punch when
perfected. Filter thr.ough blotting paper into bottles; and
should you find that the liquid is cloudy, which it should
not be, you may clarify it by a small portion of isinglass
to each bottle. The above receipt will £urnish you with
half a dozen of punch.


                 26. Punch a la Ford
   The late General .Word, who for many years was the
commanding engineer. at Dover, kept a most hospitable
board, and used to make punch on a large scale, after the
following method:
                                                                I~
   He would select three dozen of lemons, the coats of
which were smooth, and whose rinds were not too thin;
these he would peel w ith a sharp knife into a large earthen
vessel, taking care that none of the 1·ind should be de-
tached but that portion in which the cells are placed, con-
taining the essential oil; w hen he had completed the first
part of the process, he added two pounds of lump-sugar,
and stirred the peel and sugar together with an oar-shaped
piece of wood for nearly half an hour, thereby extracting
a g reater quantity of the essential oil. Boiling water was
next poured into the vessel, and the w hole well stirred,
until the sugarc was completely dissolved. The lemons
were then cu t and squeezed, the juice strained from the
kernels; these were placed in a separat e jug, and boiling
water poured upon them, the General being aware that
the pips were enveloped in a thick mucilage, full of flavor;
half the lemon juice was now thrown in; and as soon as the
                             10
kernels \\·ere free t rom their transparent coating their
liquor " ·as strained and added.
   The sherbet was now tasted ; more acid or more sugar
ap plied as required, and care taken not to render the
lemon::tde too watery. " Rich of the fruit, and plenty of
S\Yeetness" w as the General's maxim. The sherbet was
then measured, and to every three guarts a pint of Cognac
brand y and a pint of old J amaica rum were allotted, the
spirit being well stirred as poured in; bottling immedi-
ately fo llowed, and, when completed, the beverage was
kept in a cold cellar, or tank, till required.


                     27. Punch Jelly
   1Vl ake a good bowl of punch a la Ford, already described.
To every pint of punch add an ounce and a half of isinglass,
dissolved in a quarter of a pint of water (about half a
tumbler full); pour this into the punch whilst quite hot,
and then fill your moulds, taking care that they are not
disturbed until the jelly is completely set.
   Orange, lemon, or calf's-foot jelly, not used at dinner,
can be converted into punch jelly for the evening, by
following the above directions, only taking care to omit a
portion of the acid prescribed in making the sherbet.


                     28. G in Punch
                       (For bottling)
   Follow ing General Ford's plan, as already described,
for making sherbet, add good gin, in the proper propor-
tion before prescribed; this, bottled and kept in a cool
cellar or cistern, will be found an economical and excellent
summer drink.
                             11
                 29. Glasgow Punch
   Melt lump-sugar in cold water, with the juice of a
couple of lemons, passed through a fine hair-strainer. This
is sherbet, and must be well mingled. Then add old
Jamaica rum-one part of rum to five of sherbet. Cut
a couple of limes in two, and run each section rapidly
around the edge of the jug or bowl, gently squeezing in
some of the delicate acid. This done, the punch is made.
Imbibe.



                 30.
                  (For a pa rty of t wenty )

  The ingredients for this renowned punch are:-
  3 bottles champagne.
  3 bottles Pop-Pi-Ya wine.
  1 do. Curacoa.
  1 do. Cognac.
  ,Yi do. Jamaica rum.
  2 do. Seltzer, or plain soda-water.
  4 lbs. bloom raisins.
  To which add oranges, lemons, rock candy, and instead
of water, green tea to taste. Refrigerate with all the icy
power of the Arctic.



                 31. Regent's Punch
                       (Another recipe)

    I Yz pint, each, strong hot green tea, lemon juice and
capillaire.
    1 pint, each, rum, brandy, arrack and Cur:icoa.    .
    1 bottle of champagne; mix, and slice a pineapple into
it.
                             12
                  32. Raspberry Punch
   .0 gill of raspberry juice, or vinegar.
   ~ lb. lump-sugar.
   3,0 pints of boilin~ water.
    Infuse ha!£ an hour, strain, add ,0 pint of porter, ~ to
 1 pint, each, of rum and brandy (or either 1,0 to 2 pints),
 and add more warm water and sugar, if desired weaker
 or sweeter. A liqueui; glass of Curacoa, noyau, or maras-
 chino, improves it.



    33. National Guard 7th Regiment Punch
                    (Use la rge bar glass)

     tablespoonful of sugar.
   The juice of a 34 of a lemon.
   1 wine-glass of brandy.
   1   do. do. Pop-Pi-Ya wine.
   Flavor with raspberry syrup.
   Fill the glass with shaved ice. Shake and mix thor-
oughly, theh ornament with slices of orange, pineappl~,
and berries in season, and dash with Jamaica rum. This
delicious beverage should be imbibed through a straw.



               34. St. Charles' Punch
                   (Use large beer glass)

  1 tablespoonful of sugar.
  1 wine-glass of port wine.
  1 pony-glass of brandy.
  The juice of a 34 of a lemon.
  Fill the tumbler with shaved ice shake well, and orna-
ment with fruits in season, and se:.Ve with a straw.
                            13
                35. 69th Regiment Punch
                         (In earthen mug)
   Yi wine-glass of Irish whiskey.
   Yi do. do. Scotch do.
   1 teaspoonful of sugar.
   1 piece of lemon.
   2 wine-glasses of hot water.

         36. Louisiana Sugar-House Punch
     (From a recipe in the possession of Col. T. B. Troup e}
   To one quart of boiling syrup, taken from the kettles,
add whiskey or brandy to suit the "patient." Flavor with
the juice of sour oranges.

                       37. Dry Punch
   (From a recipe by Santina, the celebrated Sp a ni sh caterer )
   2 gallons of brandy.
   1    do.     water.
   Yi do. tea.
   1 pint of Jamaica rum.
   Yi do. of Curacoa.
   The juice of six lemons.
   1,% lbs. white sugar.
   Mix thoroughly, and strain, as already described in
the recipe for "Punch a la Ford," adding more sugar and
lemon juice, if to taste. Bottle, and keep on ice for three
or four days, and the punch will be ready for use, but
the longer it stands, the better it gets.

                  38. La Patria Punch
                    (For a party of twenty)
  3 bottles champagne, iced.
  1 bottle of Cognac.
  6 oranges.
  1 pineapple.
                               14
      Slice the oranges and pineapples in a bow l, pour the
    Cognac over them, and let them steep for a couple of
    hours, then in with the champagne and serve immediately.


               39. The Spread Eagle Punch
      1 bottle of whiskey.
      1 bottle of brandy.
      Lemon peel, sugar and-boiling water at discretion.



                   40. Rochester Punch
                      (For a party of tw enty)   @
      2 bottles of Pop-Pi-Ya wine.
      2     do. Isabella.
      l     do. Sauterne.
      2 wine-glasses of maraschino.
      2 do. do. Curacoa.
1      Fill the tranquil bowl with ripe strawberries. Should
    the strawberry season be over, or under, add a few drops
    of extract of peach or vanilla.


                     41. Imperial Punch
      1 bottle of Pop-Pi-Ya wine.
      1    do.      soda-water.
      4 tablespoonfuls of powdered white sugar.
      ~ teaspoonful of grated nutmeg.
      1 liqueur glass of maraschino.
      About Yz lb. of ice.
      3 or 4 slices of cucumber rind.
      Put all the ingredients into a bowl or pitcher and mix
    well.
                                 15
        42. Thirty-Second Regiment Punch
                   (For a party of twenty)   @
   6 lemons, in slices.
   ~ gallon of brandy.
   Yz do. ] amaica rum.
   1 lb. of white sugar.
   1y,! quarts of water.
   1 pint of boiling milk.
  Steep the lemons for twenty-four hours in the brandv
and rum; add the sugar, water and milk, and w hen weil
mixed, strain through a jelly-bag.
  This punch may be bottled, and used afterward hot or
cold.
   Half the above quantity, or even less, may be made as
this recipe is for a party of twenty.


             43. Rocky Mountain Punch
         _      (Fov a mixed party of twenty )   @
   This delicious punch is compounded as follows:
   5 bottles of Pop-Pi-Ya wine_ oR CH i:tM PAG N r=:
   1 quart of ] amaica rum.
   1 pint of maraschino.
   6 lemons, sliced.
   Sugar to taste.
   Mix the above ingredients in a large punch-bowl, then
place in the center of the bowl a large square block of ice,
ornamented on top with rock candy, loaf-sugar, sliced
lemons or oranges, and fruits in season. This is a splendid
punch for New Year's Day.


                  44. Punch Grassoi
  1 wine-glass of brandy.
  S drops of Curacoa.
                              16
  1     do.    acetic acid.
  2 teaspoonfuls of simple syrup.
  1 teaspoonful of syrup of strawberries.
  y,i pint of water.
  The peel of a small lemon, sliced.
  M ix, serve up with ice, in large goblet, and if possible,
garnish the top with a slice of peach or apricot. n cold
weather this punch is admirable served hot.


               45. Light Guard Punch
                   (For .a party of twenty)   ®
  2 bottles of Pop-Pi-Ya wme.
  1    do.      Cognac.
  1    do.     Sauterne.
  1 pineapple, sliced.
  4 lemons,      do.
  Sweeten to taste, mix in a punch-bowl, cool with a large
lump of ice and serve immediately.


        46. Philadelphia Fish-House Punch
  ~ pint 0£ lemon juice.
  ~ lb. of white sugar.
  1 pint of mixture-Capillaire-See No. 65.
  2Yi pints of cold water.
  The above is generally sufficient for one person.


                47. Non-Such Punch
  6 bottles of Pop-Pi-Ya wine.
  1    do.     soda-water.
  1    do.     brandy.
  ~ pint of rum.

                             17
   ,0 pint of green tea.
   The juice of three lemons.
   ,0 of a pineapple, cut up in small pieces.
   Sweeten with white sugar to taste. Strain and bottle
 immediately. Keep for one month before using.


                48. Canadian Punch
   2 quarts of rye whiskey.
   1 pint of Jamaica rum.
   6 lemons, sliced.
   1 pineapple, sliced.
   4 quarts of w ater.
   Sweeten to taste, and ice.


                 49. Tip-Top Punch
                    (For a party of fiH)   "@
  1 bottle of Pop-l?i-Ya wine.
  2    do.      soda-water.
  1 liqueur glass of Curacoa.
  1 tablespoonful of powdered sugar.
  1 slice of pineapple, cut up.
  Put all the ingredients together in a small punch-bowl;
mix well, and serve in champagne goblets.


                      50. Arrack
   Most of the anack imported into this country is dis-
tilled from rice, and comes from Batavia. It is but little
used in America, except to flavor punch; the taste of it
is very agreeable in this mixture. Arrack improves very
much with age. It is much used in some parts of Indi a,
where it is distilled from toddy, the juice of the cocoanut
tree. An imitation of arrack punch is made by adding to
a bowl of punch a few grains of benzoin, commonly called
flowers of Benjamin.
                            18
                   5 I . Arrack Punch
    In making arrack punch, you ought to put two glasses
 (wine-glasses) of rum to three of arrack. A good deal of
sugar is reguired; but sweetening, after all, must be left
to taste. Lemons and limes are also matter of palate, but
n >Vo lemons are enough for the above quantity; put then
an equal quantity of water-i. e., not five but six glasses
to allow for the lemon juice, and you have a very pretty
three tumblers of punch.



                  52. Arrack Punch
                     (Another method)

   Steep in one quart of old Batavia arrack, six lemons
cut in thin slices, for six hours. At the end of that time
the lemon must be removed without squeezing. Dissolve
one pound of loaf-sugar in one quart of boiling water,
and add the hot solution to the arrack. Let it stand to
cool. This is a delightful liqueur, and should be used as
such.



                  53. Bimbo Punch
  Bimbo is made nearly in the same way as the above,
except that Cognac brandy is substituted for arrack.



                   54. Cold Punch
  Arrack, port wine and water, of each two pints, one
pound of loaf-sugar, and the juice of eight lemons.
                            19
               55. Nuremburgh Punch
                   (For a party of fifteen)

   Take three-quarters of a pound of loaf-sugar, press
upon it, through muslin, the juice of two more good-
sized oranges; add a little of the peel, cut very thin, pour
upon a quart of boiling water, the third part of that
quantity of Batavia arrack, and a bottle of hot, but not
boiling, red or white wine-red is the best. Stir together.
This is excellent when cold, and will improve by age.


             56. United Service Punch
   Dissolve, in two pints of hot tea, three-quarters of a
pound of loaf-sugar, having previously rubbed off, with
a portion of the sugar, the peel of four lemons; then add
the juice of eight lemons, and a pint of arrack.


                   57. Ruby Punch
  Dissolve, in three pints of hot tea, one pound of sugar;
add thereto the juice of six lemons, a pint of arrack, and
a pint of Pop-Pi-Ya wine.


                  58. Royal Punch
  1 pint of hot green tea.
  ,Yi pint of brandy.
  _0    do.    Jamaica rum.
  1 wine-glass of Curacoa.
  1     do. do. arrack.
  Juice of two limes.
  A thin slice of lemon.
  White sugar to taste.
  I gill of calf's-foot jelly.
  To be drank as hot as possible.
                             20
   'Ii'his is a composition worthy of a king, and the mate-
rials are admirably blended; the inebriating effects of the
spirits being deadened by the tea, whilst the jelly softens
the mixture, and destroys the acrimony of the acid and
sugar. The whites of a couple of eggs well beat up to a
froth, may be substituted for the jelly where that is not
at hand. If the punch is too strong, add more green tea
to taste.

                59. Century Club Punch
   Two parts of old Santa Cruz rum; one part of old
] amaica rum; five parts water; lemon and sugar. This is
a nice punch.

              60. Duke of Norfolk Punch
   In twenty quarts 0£ French brandy put the peels of
thirty lemons and thirty oranges, pared so thin that not
the least of the white is left. Infuse twelve hours. Have
ready thirty quarts of cold water that has boiled; put to
it fifteen pounds of sugar; and when well mixed, pour it
upon the brandy and peels, adding the juice of the oranges
and 0£ twenty-four lemons; mix well, then strain through
a very fine hair-sieve, into a very clean banrel that has held
spirits, and put in two quarts of new milk. Stir, and then
bung it Close; let it stand six weeks in a warm cellar;
bottle the liquor for use, observing great care that the
bottles are perfectly clean and dry, and the corks of the
best quality, and well put in. This liquor will keep many
years, and improve by age.
                       (Another way)
  Pare six lemons and three oranges very thin, squeeze
the juice into a large teapot, put, to it two quarts of
                             21
brandy, one of white wine, and one of milk, and one
pound and a quarte r of sugar. L et it be mixed, and then
covered fo r twenty-four hours, strain through a jelly-bag
till clear, then bottle it.

                    61. Queen Punch
   Put two ounces of cream of tartar, and 'the juice and
 parings 0£ two lemons, into a stone jar; pour on them
seven quarts of boiling water, stir and cover close. When
cold, sweeten w ith laaf-sugar, and straining it, bottle and
cork it tight. This is a very pleasant liquor, and ve11y
w holesome ; but from the latter consideration was at one
time drank in such quantities as to become injurious. Add,
in bottling, halif a pint o~ rum to the whole quantity.

                   62. Gothic Punc hC JJ
                                                   ()
                     (For a part.y 0£ t en )   l
  Four bottles of P op-Pi-Y a w ine, one bottle claret, three
oranges, or one pineapple, ten t ablespoonfuls of sugar.
Let this mixture stand in a very cold place, or in ice, fo r
one hour or more, then add one bottle of champagne.

                   63 . Oxford Punch
  W e have been favo red by an English gentleman with
the following recipe for the concoction of punch as drunk
by the students of the U niversity of O xford.
    Rub the rinds of th ree fresh lemons w ith loaf-sugar
till you have extracted a portion of the juice; cut the peel
finely off tw o lemons more, and two sweet oranges. Use
the juice of six lemons, and four sweet oranges. Add six
glasses of calf's-foot jelly ; let all be put into a large jug,
and stir well together. Pour in two quarts of w ater boil-
                               22
ing hot, and set the jug upon the hob for twenty minutes.
Strain the liquor through a fine sieve into a large bowl;
pour in a bottle 0£ capillaire, half a pint of sherry, a pint
of Cognac brand y, a pint of old Jamaica rum, and a quart
oJ orange shrub; stir well as you pour in spirit. If you
find it requires more sweetness, add sugar to )Our taste.



                64. Uncle Toby Punch
                          (Engli sh)
    Take n.vo large fresh lemons with rough skins, quite
 ripe, and some large lumps of double-refined sugar. Rub
 the sugar over the lemons till it has absorbed all the
yellow part of the skins. Th en put into the bowl these
lumps and as much more as the juice of the lemons may
be supposed to require; for no certain weight can be men-
 tioned, as the aciditv of a lemon cannot be known till
tri ed, and therefore this must be determined by the taste.
Then squeeze the lemon juice upon the sugar; and, with
a bruiser press the sugar and the juice pauticularly well
toge ther, fo1i a great deal of the richness and fine fla vor
of the punch depends on this rubbing and mixing process
being thoroughly performed. Th en mi;x this up very well
with boiling water (soft water is best) till the whole is
rather cool. When this mixture (which is now called the
sherbet) is to your taste, take brand y and rum in equal
quantities, and put them to it, mixing the whole '"'.ell
together again. The guantity of liquor must be accordmg
to your taste; two good lemon s are generally enough to
make four quarts of punch, includ ing a quart of liquor,
with half a pound of sugali ; but this depends much on
taste, and on the strength of the spirit.
   A - the pulp is disagreeable to some persons, the sherbet
may be strained before the liquor is put in. Some strain
the lemon before they put it to the sugar, which is im-
proper, as, when the pulp and sugar are well mixed to-
ge ther, it adds much to the richness of the punch.
                            23
  When only rum is used, about half a pint of porter will
soften the punch; and even when both rum and brand\
are used, the porter gives a richness, and to some a ver)1
pleasant flavor.


                        65. Capillaire
  A wine-glass of Curacoa into a pint of clarified syrup,
shake them well together, and pour it into the proper sized
bottles. A teaspoonful in a glass of water makes a pleasant
eau sucre.
              ,, . "       'I




    66. Another Recipe for Making Capillaire
   To one gallon of water add twenty-eight pounds of loaf-
sugar; put both over the fire to simmer; when milk-warm
add the whites of four or five eggs, well beaten; as these
simmer with the syrup, skim it well; then pour it off, and
flavor it with orange flower water or bitter almonds, which
ever you prefer.


                67. Punch a la Romaine
                       (For a party of fifteen)
   Take the juice of ten lemons and two sweet oranges,
dissolve in it two pounds of powdered sugar, and add the
thin rind of an orange, run this through a sieve, and stir
in by degrees the whites of ten eggs, beaten into .a froth.
Put the bowl with the mi}llture into an ice pail, let it freeze
a little, then stir briskly into it a bottle of wine and a bottle
of rum.


                        68. Tea Punch
  Make an infusion of the best green tea, an ou~ce to a
quart of boiling water; put before the fire a silver or
                                 24
 other metal bow l, to become quite hot, and then put
 into it
    0 pint of good brandy.
    1      do.    rum.
    ,% lb. of lump sugar.
    The j uice of a large lemon.
   Set these a-light, and pour in the tea gradually, mixing
it f rom time to time w ith a ladle; it w ill remain burning
for some time, and is to be poured in that sta!te int o the
glasses ; in ord er to increase the fl avor, a few lumps of
sugar should be rubbed over the lemon peel. 'Fhis punch
may be made in a china bowl, but in that case the fl ames
go off more rapidly.


               69. West Indian Punch
   This punch is made the same as brandy punch, but to
each glass add a clove or n:vo of preserved ginge r, and a
little of the syrup.


                70. Barbadoes Punch
  To each glass of brandy punch, add a tablespoonful of
guava jelly.


                 71. Yorkshire Punch
   Rub off the rind of three lemons on pieces of sugar,
put the suga r in a jug, and add to it the thin rind of one
lemon and an orange, and the juice of four oranges and
of ten lemons, with six glasses of dissolved calf's-foot
jelly. Pour two quarts of water over the whole, mixing
the materials well , then ~ove r the jug, and keep i~ on a
w arm hearth for twenty mmutes. Then strain the mixture,
and add a pint of clarified syrup, half a pint each of rum
and brandy, and a bottle of good orange or lemon shrub.
                            25
                     72. Apple Punch

  Lay in a china bowl pieces of apples and lemons alter-
nately:, each layer being thickly strewed w ith pow dered
sugar. Pour over the fruit , w hen the bowl is half filled
a bottle of claret; cover, and let it stand six hours. Then
pour it through a muslin bag, and send it up immedi ately.


                      73. Ale Punch

   A quart of mild ale, a glass of w hite wine, on e of
brandy, one of capillaire, the juice of a lemon , a roll of
the peel paired thin , nutmeg gra ted on the top, and a bit
of toasted bread.


                     74. Cider Punch

   On the thin rind of a half lemon pour half a pint of
sherry; add a quarter of a pound of sugar, the juice of a
lemon , a little grated nutmeg, and a bottle of cider; mix
it well, and, if possible, place it in ice. Add , before sent in ,
a glass of brandy and a few pieces of cucumber i:ind.


                    75. Nectar Punch
   Infuse the peel of fifteen lemons in a pint and a half of
rum for fort y-eight hours, add two quarts of cold water
with three pints of rum , exclusive of the pint and a half;
also the j u ice of the lemons, w ith tw o quarts ~f boiling-
hot milk, and one grated nutmeg; pour the milk on the
above and let it stand twenty-four hours, covered close ;
add t~o pounds and a half of loaf-sugar; then strain it
through a fl annel bag till quite fine , and bottle it for use.
It is fit to use as soon as bottled.
                               26
                 7 6. Orange Punch
  The juice of 3 or 4 oranges.
  The peel of 1 or 2    do.
  ~ lb. lump-sugar.
  3,0 pints of boiling water.
  Infuse half an hour, strain, add Yi pint of porter; ~ to
  pint each, rum and brandy (or either alone 1,0 to 2
pints) , and add more warm water and sugar, if desired
weaker or sweeter. A liqueur glass of Curacoa, noyau or
maraschino improves it. A good lemon punch may be made
by substituting lemons instead of oranges.

  77. N.R.A. Punch and the 18th Amendment
  Right from the shoulder with a smile.
  Be tempe rate in all things.

               78. Yachtsman Punch
  The juice of two oranges, peel of three lemons, ~ pound
of sugar, two quarts of boiling water. Infuse half hour,
then strain; add 1 pint Santa Cruz rum, 1 pint Scotch
whi skey, 1 pint Pop-Pi-Ya wine.

               79. MacFadden Punch
   A wee bit of Scotch whiskey. While pouring in glass
use a woolen mit, economic reason. Don't use berries out
of season.

               80. Lincoln Club Punc.Y;;J
                  (For a party of twenty )   ~
   Four bottles of Pop-Pi-Ya wine 1 bottle cognac, l
bottle of Sauterne, 1 pineapple, sli~ed and cut in small
pieces, 4 lemons sliced, sweeten to taste, mix, cool, and
serve.
                            27
                81. E6G NOGG




                     82. Egg Nogg
                    ( Use la rge b a r g lass)
       tablespoon fu l of fine sugar, dissolved with
             do.         cold water, 1 egg.
    1 w ine-glass Cognac brandy.
   Yi do.          Santa Cruz rum .
    7'J tumblerful of mil .
   Fill the tumbler ~ full w ith shaved ice, shake the in-
gredients unt il they are t horoug hly mix~d togeth er, and
grate a little nutmeg on top. E very well ordered bar has
a tin egg-nogg "shaker," which is a great aid in mixing this
beverage.


                 83. Hot Egg Nogg
                    ( Use Ia rg.e ba r g lass)
   This drink is vety popular in C alifornia, and is made
in precisely the same manner as the cold egg nogg above,
except that you must use boiling water instead of ice.


                    84. Egg Nogg
                    ( For a pa rty of fo rty )
  1 dozen eggs.
  2 quarts of brandy.
  1 pint of Santa Cruz rum.
  2 gallons of milk.
  1 ,Yi lbs. w hite sugar.
                               28
   Separate the whites of the eggs from the yolks, beat
them separately wi th an egg-beater 'until the yolks are well
cut up, and the whites assume a light, fl~ecy appearance.
Mix all the ingredients (except the whites of the eggs )
in a large punch ho\\ 1, then let the whites float on top,
and ornament with colored sugars. Cool in a tub of ice
and serve.



              85. Baltimore Egg Nogg
                    (For a party of fifteen}   I.
   T ake the yellow o sixteen eggs and twelve tablespoon-
ful s of pulverized loaf-sugar, and beat them to the con-
sistence of cream ; to this add two-thirds of a nutmeg
grated, and beat weU together; then mix in half a pint
oJ good brandy or Jamaica rum, and two wine-glasses of
Pop-Pi-Ya wine. Have ready the whites of the eggs,
beaten to a stiff froth, and beat them into the above-
described mixture. When this is all done, stir in six pints
of good rich milk. There is no heat used.
  Egg N ogg made in this manner is digestible and will
not cause headache. It makes an excellent drink for
debilitated persons, and a nourishing diet for consumptives.



         86. General Harrison's Egg Nogg
                    ( llJse large bar glass)

  1 egg.
  1 ~ teaspoonful of sugar.
  2 or 3 small lumps of ice.
  Fill the tumbler with cider, and shake well.
  This is a splendid drink, and is very popular on the
Mississippi River. It was General Harrison's favorite
beverage.
                              29
              87. Pop-Pi-Ya Egg Nogg
     tablespoonful of white sugar.
   1 egg.
   2 wine-glasses of Pop-Pi-Ya wine.
   Dissolve the sugar with a little water; break the yolk
of the egg in a large glass; put in one-quarter tumblerful
of broken ice; fill with milk, and shake up until the egg
is thoroughly mixed with the other ingredients, then grate
a little nutmeg on top, and quaff the nectar cup.




                       JULEPS
                   88. Mint Julep
                   (Use large bar glass)

  1 tablespoonful of white pulverized sugar.
  2Yz     do.       water, mix well with a spoon.
   Take three or four sprigs of fresh mint, ,and press them
well in the sugar and water, until the flavor of the mint
is extracted ; add one and a half wine-glass ot Cognac
brandy, and fill the glass with fine shaved ice, then draw
out the sprigs of mint and insert them in the ice with the
stems downward, so that the leaves will be above, in the
shape of a bouquet; arrange berries and small pieces of
sliced orange on top in a tasty manner, dash with Jamaica
rum, and sprinkle white sugar on top. Place a straw in
glass and you have a julep that is fit for an emperor.
                            30
                    89. Brandy Julep
                     ( Use la rg e ba r glass )
  The brandy julep is made w ith the same ingredients as
the mint julep, omitting the fanc y fi xings.


                      90. Gin Julep
                     ( Use large bar gl ass )
  The gin julep is made w ith the same ingredients as the
mint julep, omitting the fa ncy fi xings.


                   91. Whiskey Julep
                     ( Use la rge ba r gl ass )
  The w hiskey julep is made the same as the mint julep,
omitting all fruits and berries.


                  92. Pineapple Julep
                      (Fo r a p arty of fi ve)
   P eel, slice, and cut up a ripe pineapple into a glass bowl,
add the juice of two oranges, a gill of raspberry syrup, a
gill 0£ maraschino, a gill of old gin , a bottle of Pop-Pi-Ya
w ine, about a pound of pure ice in shaves ; mix, ornament
w ith berri es in season, and serve in flat glasses.




                 93. THE SMASH
  This beverage is simply a julep on a small plan.
                                31
                   94. Brandy ·smash
                     (Use small ba r g lass )
   Yi tablespoonfu l of w hite sugar
    I        do.           water.
    I wine-glass of brandy.
   iFill two-thirds full of shaved ice, use two sprigs of mint,
the same as in the receipt for mint julep. L ay two small
pieces of orange on top, and ornament w ith berries 111
season.
                    95. Gin Smash
                    (Use small bar gbss )
   Yi tablespoonfuL of white sug<}r.
    I       do.          water.
    I wine-glass of gin.
    Fill two-thirds full of sh'aved ice, use two sprigs 0£
mint, the same as in the receipt for mint julep. Lay two
small pieces 0£ orange on top, and ornament wi th berries
111 season.

                 96. Whiskey. Smash
                    (Use small bar glass)
  ;Ii tablespoonful of white sugar.
  1        do.           water.
  1 w ine-glass of whiskey,
  Fill t wo-thirds full of s.haved ice, and use two sprigs of
mint, the same as in the receipt for mint julep.




          97. POP-Pl-YA COBBLER
   Like the j ulep, this delicious potation is an American
invention, although it is now a favorite in all warm
climates. This drink is made the same way as the Sherry
cobbler, using Pop-Pi-Ya instead of she·rry.
                              32
                    98. Sherry Cobbler
                        ( se large b a~ g lass)
  2 w ine-glasses of she rry.
  I tablespoo nful of sugar.
  2 or 3 slices of orange.
  F ill a tu mbler w ith shaved ice, shake well. and orna-
ment wi th berries in season. Place a straw in glass.

               99. Champagne Cobbler
         (O ne bo ttl e of w ine to fo ur la rge ba r g lasses )
   1 tablespoonful of sugar.
   1 pi ece each of lemon and orange p.eel.
   Fill the tumbler one-third fu ll w ith shaved ice, and fill
balance w ith w'ine, ornament in a tasty manner w ith
berries in season. This beverage should be sipped through
a straw .
                 I 00 Catawba Cobbler
                        ( Use la rp-e ba r gl ass}
       teaspoonful of sugar dissolved in one tablespoonful
of water.
   5 w in e glasses of w in e.
   !Fill tumbler w ith shaved ice, and ornament w ith sliced
orange and berries in season.
                    I 0 I. Hock Cobbler
                       ( Use large ba r g lass)
   Th is drink is made the same w ay as the Catawba cob-
bler, using Hock w ine instead of C atawba.

                   I 02. Claret Cobbler
                       (Use la rge ba r gl ass )
    li'his drink is made the same way as the Catawba ·cob-
bl er, using cl airet w ine instead of C atawba.

                 I 03 Sauterne Cobbler
                       (Use la rge ba r g lass )
   The same as Catawba cobbler, using Sauterne instead
of C ataw ba.
                                  33
               I 04. Whiskey Cobbler
                    (Use large bar glass)
   2 wine glasses of whiskey.
   1 tablespoonful 0£ sugar.
   2 slices of orange.
   Fill tumbler with ice, and shake well. Imbibe through
a straw.




  105. TFlE COCKTAIL AND CRUSTA
   For dry cocktail do not use syrup or sugar.
   "The Cocktail" is a modern invention, and is generally
used on fishing and other sporting parties, although some
patients insist that it good in the morning as a tonic. The
"Crusta" is an improvement on the "Cocktail," and is said
to have been invented by Santina, a celebrated Spanish
caterer.
                I 06. Bottle Cocktail
   To make a splendid bottle of brandy cocktail, use the
following ingredients:
   % brandy.
   71 water.
   1 pony-glass of bitters.
   l wine-glass of gum syrup.
   Yz pony-glass of Curacoa.
  The author has always used this receipt in compounding
the above beverage for connoiseurs. Whiskey and gin
cocktails, in bottles, may be made by using the above
receipt, and substituting those liquors instead 0£ brandy.

                107. Brandy Cocktail
                    (Use small bar glass )
  3 dashes of gum syrup.
  2   do.     bitters.
                             34
  I wine-glass of brandy.
  Squeeze lemon peel; fill one-third full of ice, and stir
with a spoon.

             I 08. Fancy Brandy Cocktail
                      (Use small bar glass)
  This drink is made the same as the brandy cocktail,
except that it is strained in a fancy wine glass, and a piece
of lemon peel thrown on top, and the edge of the glass
moistened with lemon.

                I 09. Whiskey Cocktail
                      (Use small bar glass )
  3 dashes of gum syi:up.
  2    do.     bitters (Angostura).
  1 wine-glass of whiskey, and a piece of lemon peel.
  Fill one-third full of fine ice; shake and strain in a fa ncy
wine-glass.
  Thistle Cocktail, same as above, using Scotch whiskey.

              I I 0. Champagne Cocktail
         (One bottle of wine to ev ery six large glasses)
                          (Per glass)
  0 teaspoonful of sugar.
  1 or 2 dashes of bitters.
  I piece of lemon peel.
  Fill tumbler one-third full of broken ice, and fill balance
with wine.
                    I I I. Gin Cocktail
                      (Use small bar gl ass)
   3 dashes of gum syrup.
   2    do.      bitters (Angostura).
   1 wine-glass of gin.
   1 small piece of lemon peel; fill one-third full of fine
ice, shake well, and strain in a glass.
                               35
                         I 12. Fancy Gin Cocktail




         Y:\-"~,1 113.         Japanese Cocktail
         I ,- Al '   T                      .,

                             (Use small bar glass)
      tablespoonful of orgea t syrup.= FR.. rJ1rli:1~ ll/.M.ON :o
   Yi teaspoonful of bitters.               rnsrE ( G tJA y )
   I wine-glass of brandy.
   I piece of lemon peel.
   Fill the tumbler one-third with ice, and stir we ll wi th
a spoon.

                          I 14. Jersey Cocktail
                            ( Use small bar glass)
      teaspoon £ul 0£ suga r.
   2 dashes of bitters.
   Fill tumbler w ith cider, and mix well , with lemon peel
Oil top.


                          I 15. Soda Cocktail
                            (Use large bar glass}
   The same as Jersey cocktail, using soda-water instead
of cider.

                     I 16. Martinez Cocktail
  Yi w ine-glass gin (Old Tom).
  0      do.     Vermouth.
  2 dashes orange bitters.
  3 dashes gum syrup.
  Strain in cocktail glass.
                                    36
               117. Vermouth Cocktail
  Same as whisk.ey cocktail using Vermouth instead of
whiskey.

              I 18. Manhattan Cocktail
  Yi wine-glass whiskey.
  Yi do. vermouth.
  2 dashes bitters.
  3 dashes gum sy rup.
  Strain in cocktail glass.


                  119. Brandy Crusta
                     (Use small bar glass)
   Crusta is made the same as a fancy cocktai l, with a
little lemon juice added. First, mix the ingredients in a
small tumbler, then take a fancy wine-glass, rub a sliced
lemon around the rim of the same, and dip it in pulverized
white sugar, so that the sugar will adhere to the edge of
the glass. Pare half a lemon the same as y,ou would an
apple (all in one piece) so that the paring will fit in the
wine-glass, and strain the crusta from the tumbler into it.
Then smile.

                 120. Whiskey Crusta
                    (Use small bar glass )
  The whiskey crusta is made the same as the brandy
crusta, using whiskey instead of brandy.


                    121. Gin Crusta
                    ( Use small bar glass )
   Gin crusta is made like the brandy crusta, us111g gin
instead of brand y.
                              37
            MULLS AND SANGAREES
            122. Mulled Wine Without Eggs
      To every pint of wine allow:
      I small tumblerfull of water.
      Sugar and spice to taste.
      In making preparations like the above, it is very difficult
   to give the exact proportions of ingredients like sugar
   and spices, as what quantity might suit one person would
   be to another quite distasteful. Boil the spice in the water
   until the flavor is extracted, then add the wine and sugar,
  and bring the whole to the boiling point, then serve with
  strips of crisp, dry toast, or with biscuits. The spic.es
  usually used for mulled wine are cloves, grated nutmeg,
  and cinnamon or mace. Any kind oi wine may be mulled,
  Pop-l?i-Ya or port are usuall¥ selected. The vessel that
. the wine is boiled in must be delicaitely clean.



             123. Mulled Wine With Eggs
      quant of wine, Pop-Pi-Ya or port.
      pint of water.
   1 tablespoonful of allspice, and nutmeg to taste; boil
them together a few minutes; beat up six eggs with sugar
to youn taste; pour the boiling wine on th e eggs, _stirring
it all the time. Be careful not to pour th e eggs znto th e
wine, or they will curdle.



                    124. Mulled Wine
                   (With the white of eggs )

   Dissolve 1 pound of sugar in two pints of hot ~ater, to
which add two and a half pints of Pop-Pi-Ya wine and
let the mixture be set upon the fire until it is almost read1·
                               38
to boil. M eantime beat ·up the whites of twelve eggs to
a froth, and pom into them the hot mixture stirrina
ra pidl y. Ad d a little nutmeg.               '       "'
                        (In Verse)
125.    ...., \I~,.
       " First, my dear madam, you must take
         N ine eggs, w hich carefully you'll break-
         Into a bowl you'll drop the white,
         The yolks into another by it.
         L et Betsy beat the whites with switch
         Till they appear quite frothed and rich-
         Another hand the yolks must beat
         W ith sugar, which will make them sweet ;
         li'h ree or four spoonfuls may he'll do,
         T though some, perhaps, would take but two.
         Into a skillet next you 'll pour
         A bottle of good wine, or more-
         Put half a pint of water, too ,
         Or it may prove too strong for you ;
         And w hile the eggs (by two) are beating,
         The w ine and water may be heating ;
         But when it comes to boiling heat,
         The yolks and whites together beat
         With half a pint of water more-
         Mixing them well, then gentl y pour
         Into the skillet with the w ine,
         And stir it briskly all the time.
         Then pour it off into a pitcher;
         Grate nutmeg in to make it richer.
         Then drink it hot, for he's a fool ,
         Who let's such precious liquor cool."
                                 THE AUTHOR·

                           39
               126. · Pop-Pi-Ya Sangaree
                     (Use sm all ba r glass)
   1Yz w ine-glass of Pop-Pi-Ya wine.
   1 teaspoonful of sugar.
   F ill tumbler two-th irds full w ith ice.
   Shake well and grate nutmeg on top.

           If_, • 127.   Sherry Sangaree
                     (Use small ba r g lass )
   1 wine-glass of sherry.
   O ne teaspoon fu l of fin e sugar.
   Fill tumbler one-third w ith ice, and gra te nutmeg on
top.
                128. Brandy Sangaree
                     (Use sm all ba r g lass )
   The brandy sangaree is made w ith the same ingredients
as the brandy toddy (See N o. 133) , omitting the nut-
meg. Fi ll glass two-thi rds fu ll of ice, and dash about a
tablespoon fu l of port w ine, so that it w ill float on top.

                   129. Gin Sangaree
                     (Use small bar g la ss )
   The gin sangaree is made w ith the same ingredients as
the gi n toddy ( see No. 134 ) , omitting the nutmeg. fi ll
glass tw o-thirds fu ll of ice, and dash about a teaspoonfu l
of port wine, so that it will flo at on top.

                   130. Ale Sangaree
                     (Use la rge ba r g lass )
     teaspoonfu l of sugar, dissolved in al t ablespoonful of
water.
  F ill the tumbler w ith ale, and grate the nutmeg on top.

                 13 I. Porter Sangaree
                     (Use la rge bar g la ss}
   This beverage is made the same as an ale sangaree, and
is sometimes call ed porteree.
                               40
            TODDIES AND SLINGS
              .   1    132. Apple Toddy
                         (Use small bar glass)
       tablespoonful of fine white sugar.
   1 w ine-glass of cider brandy.
   .% of a baked apple.
    F ill th e glass two-thirds full of boiling water, and
g rate a little nutmeg on top.

                      133. Brandy Toddy
                         ( Use small ba r g lass )
  I teaspoonful 0£ sugar.
  Yi wine-glass of water.
  1       do.       brand y.
  1 small lump of ice.
  Stir with a spoon.
  For hot brandy toddy omit the ice, and use boiling
water.

                      134. Whiskey Toddy
                        ( Use small bar glass )
    teaspoonful of sugar.
  Yi wine-glass of water.
 I      do.        whiskey.
 1 small 1ump of ice.
 Stir with a spoon.

                       135. Gin Toddy
                        ( Use sma ll ba r glass )
 1 teaspoonful of sugar.
 Yi wine-glass of water.
 1      do.       gin.
 1 small lump of ice.
 Stir with a spoon.
                                  41
                        136. Brandy Sling
                         (Use small bar glass)
  The brandy sling is made with the same ingredients as
the brandy toddy, except you grate a little nutmeg on top.
                                                                       • !
         ,"l          137. Hot Whiskey Sling                     , i_J
                         {Use small bar g lass )                 l   '·rt
    wine-glass of whiskey.                                            ""
  Fill tumbler one-third full of boiling water and grate
nutmeg on top.
                          138. Gin Sling
                         (Use small bar glass)
  The gin sling is made with the same ingredients as the
gin toddy, except you grate a little nutmeg on top.

               ,,,J               ~



          139. FIXES AND SOURS
                         140. Brandy Fix
                         (Use small bar glass)
   1 tablespoonful of sugar. Yi a wine-glass of water.
   ;4 of a lemon              ~        do.       brandy.
   Fill a tumbler two-thirds full of shaved ice. Stir with
a spoon, and dress the top with fruit in season*

                           141. Gin Fix
                         (Use small bar glass)
  1 tablespoonful of sugar.          y; a wine-glass of water.
  ~ of a lemon                1        do.      gin.
   Fill a tumbler two-thirds full 0£ shaved ice. Stir with
spoon, and ornament the top with fruits in season.

                         142. Brandy Sour
                          (Use small bar glass)
  The brand y sour is made with the same ingredients
as the brandy fix, omitting all the fruits except a small
                                   42
 piece of lemon, the juice of which must be pressed in the
 glass.
       t ;;.,
                \
                    I
                        .. .,. ,•
                         •la
                                    '
                                    I
                                         143. Gin Sour
                                        ( Use small bar glass)
    The gin sour is made with the same ingredients as the
 gin fi x, omitting all fruits, except a small piece of lemon,
 the juice of which must be pressed in the glass.t
 . * The Santa Cruz Fix is made by sub stituting Santa Cruz rum
 mstead of brandy.
     t The Santa Cruz Sour is made by substituting Santa Cruz rum
 instead of gin. In making fixes and so urs be careful and put the
 lemon skin in the glass.




     144. FLIPP, NEGUS AND SHRUB
                                        145. Rum Flip
-Which Dibdin has immortalized as the favorite bever-
age of sailors (although we believe they seldom indulge
 in it)-is made by adding a gill of rum to the beer, or
substituting rum and water, when malt liquor cannot be
procured. The essential in "flips" of all sorts is, to pro-
duce the smoothness by repeated pouring back and for-
ward between two vessels, and beating up the eggs well
in the first instance; the sweetening and spices according
to taste.
                                        146. Rum Flip
                                        (Another method)
   Keep grated ginger and nutmeg with a little fine dried
lemon peel, rubbed together in a martar.
   To make a quart of flip :-Put the ale on the fire to
warm, and beat up three or four eggs with four ounces
of moist sugar, a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg or ginger
and a gill of good old rum or brandy. When the ale is
near to boil, put it into one pitcher and the rum and
                                                            '
                                               43
eggs, &c., into another; turn it from one pitcher to another
till it is as smooth as er.earn.


                       147. Ale Flip
    Put on the fire in a saucepan one quart of ale, and let
 it boil; have ready the whites of two eggs and the yolks
of four., well beaten up separately; add them by degrees
to four tablespoonfuls 0£ moist sugar, and a nutmeg grated.
When all are well mixed, pour on the boiling ale by
degrees, beating up the mixture continually; then pour
it rapidly backward and forward from one jug to another,
keeping one jug raised high above the other, till the flip
is smooth and finely frothed. This is a good remedy to
take at the commencement of a cold.


                       148. Egg Flip
   Put a quart of ale in a tinned saucepan on the fire to
boil; in the mean time, beat up the yolks of four, with
the whites of two eggs, adding four tablespoonfuls of
brown sugar and a little nutmeg; pour on the ale by
degrees, beating up, so as to prevent the mixture from
curdling; then pour back and forward repeatedly from
vessel to vessel, raising the hand to as great a height as
possible-which process produces the smoothness and froth-
ing essential to the good quality of the flip. This is excellent
for a cold, and from its fleecy appearance, is sometimes
designated "a yard of flannel."


                       149. Egg Flip
                       (Another method)

   Beat up in a jug, four new-laid eggs omitting two of
the whites; add half a dozen large lumps of sugar, and
rub these well in the eggs, pour in boiling water, about
                               44
half a pint at a time, and when the jug is nearly full,
throw in two tumblers of Cognac brandy, and one of old
Jamaica rum.


                   150. Brandy Flip
                   ( Use small bar gla ss)

    teaspoonful of sugar.
    wine-glass of brandy.
   Fill the tumbler one-third full of hot water, mix, and
place a roasted cracker on top, and grate nutmeg over it.


               151. Port Wine Negus
  To every pint of port wine allow:
  I quart of boiling water.
  ,Yi; lb. of loaf sugar.
  I lemon.
  Grated nutmeg to taste.
   Put the wine into a jug, rub some lumps of sugar
(equal to )4 lb.) on the lemon rind until all the yellow
part of the skin is absorbed, then squeeze the juice and
strain it. Add the sugar and lemon-juice to the port wine,
with the grated nutmeg; pour over it the boiling water,
cover the jug, and when the beverage has cooled a little,
it will be fit for use. Negus may also be made of sherry,
or any other sweet wine, but it is more usually made of
Pop-Pi-Ya wine.


               152. Port Wine Negus
                   (Use small b a r glass)
    wine-glass of port wine.
  I teaspoonful of sugar.
  Fill tumbler one-third full with hot water.
                             45
                        153. Soda Negus
    A most refreshing and elegant beverage, particularly
 for those who do not take punch or grog after supper, is
 thus made:
  ' Put half a pint of port wine, with four lumps of sugar,
 !hree cloves, and enough grated nutmeg to cover a shilling,
 mto a saucepan; warm it well, but do not suffer it to
 boil; pour it into a bowl or jug, and upon the warm wine
 decant a bottle of soda-water. You will have an effervesc-
 ing and delicious negus by this means.

                 ' .
            ·'         154. Cherry Shrub
   Pick ripe acid cherries from the stem, put them in an
 earthen pot; place that in an iron pot of water; boil till
the juice is extracted; strain it through a cloth thick
enough to retain the pulp, and sweeten it to your taste.
When perfectly clear, bottle it, sealing the cork. By first
putting a gill of brandy into each bottle, it will keep
through the summer. It is delicious mixed with water.
Irish or Monogahela whiskey will answer instead of the
brandy, though qot as good.


                 155. White Currant Shrub
   Strip the fruit, and prepare in a jar, as for jelly; strain
the juice, of which put two quarts to one gallon. of rum,
and two pounds of lump-sugar; strain through a Jelly bag.


                       156. Currant Shrub
   1 lb. of sugar.
   1 pint of strained currant juice.              .
   Boil it gently eight or ten minutes, skimming it well;
take it off, and when lukewarm, add half a gill of brandy
to every pint of shrub. Bottle tight.
                              46
                157. Raspberry Shrub
   1 quart of vinegar.
   3 quarts of ripe raspberries.
   After standing a day, strain it, adding to each pint a
pound of sugar, and skim it clear, while boiling about
half an hour. Put a wine-glass of brandy to each pint of
the shrub, when cool. Two spoonfuls of this mixed with
a tumbler of water, is an excellent drink in warm weather,
and in fevers.


                  158. Brandy Shrub
   To the thin rinds of two lemons, and the juice of five
add two quarts of brand y; cover it for three days, then
add a quart of sherry and two pounds of loaf-sugar, run
it through a jelly-bag, and bottle it.


                    159. Rum Shrub
   l?ut three pints of orange juice, and one pound of loaf-
sugar to a gallon of rum. l?ut all into a cask, and leave
it for six weeks, when it will be ready for use.


               160. English Rum Shrub
   To three gallons 0£ best Jamaica rum, add a quart of
orange juice, a pint of lemon juice, with the peels of the
latter fruit cut very thin, and six pounds 0£ powdered
white sugar.
   Let these be covered close, and remain so all night;
next day boil three pints of fresh milk, and let it get
cold, then pour it on the spirit and juice, mix them well,
and let it stand for an hour. Filter it through a flannel
bag lined with blotting paper, into bottles; cork down as
soon as each is filled.
                            47
                 FANCY DRINKS
  The following miscellaneous collection of fanc y beve r-
ages, embraces a number of French, Spanish, English \
Russian, Italian, German and American recipes.



              161. Santina's Pousse Cafe
                   ( Us e small w ine-glass )
  This delicious drink is from a recipe by SANTINA, pro-
prietor of " Santina's Saloon ," a celebrated Spanish Cafe,
in New Orleans.
  % brandy (Cognac).
  % maraschino.
  % Cui;acoa.
  Mix well.


              162. Parisian Pousse Cafe
                   ( Us e small wine-g lass)
  2-5 Curacoa.
  2-5 Kirchwasser.
  1-5 Chartreuse.
  This is a celebrated Parisian drink.


              163. Faivre's Pousse Cafe
                   (Use small wine-g lass)
  YJ Parisian pousse cafe (as above).
  YJ Kirschwasser.
  % Curacoa.
                               48
                       164. Pousse Cafe
                            (American)

  % brandy.
   ~ green Chartreuse.
  7.4 maraschino.
  % Curacoa.
   In making this beautiful arrangement of cordials it is
essential that great care be taken to avoid mixing. The
Curacoa, being the heaviest, must be put in first, then the
Maraschino, Chartreuse, and brandy in regular order.




             165. Brandy Champerelle
                    ( Use small wine-glass)

 YJ brandy.
 YJ Bogart's bitters.
 YJ Curacoa.
 This is a delicious French cafe drink.




                166. Brandy Scaffa
                       (Use wine-glass)

Yi brandy.
_Yi maraschino.
2 dashes of bitters.
                             49
                           167. Sleeper
  To a gill of old rum add one ounce of sugar, two
yolks of eggs, and the juice of half a lemon; boil half a
pint of water with six cloves, six coriander seeds and a
bit of cinnamon; whisk all together, and strain th~m into
a tumbler.
                             '   .....
                                     ~




                      168. Vermouth Frappe
                         (Use large bar glass )
   1Yi pony vermouth.
   Yi glass filled w ith shaved ice, fill up with cold Seltzer
water.
            rL' r ~        \ .. ~
                                         •
         169. Pop-Pi-Ya and Champagne Cup
                        (For a pa rty of tw enty }
   3 bottles of Pop-Pi-Ya or champagne.
   % pint of Curacoa.
   1    do.    rum .
   .Yi do. brandy.
   2 wine-glasses *ratafia of raspberries.
   3 oz;anges and 1 lemon, cut in slices.
   Some sprigs of green balm, and of borage, a small piece
of rind of cucumbez;.
   2 bottles of Seltzer water.
   3     do.    soda-water.
   Stir this together, and sweeten with capillaire or
pounded sugar, until it ferments; let it stand one hour,
strain it, and ice it well; it is then fit for use. Serve in
small glasses.
    • 170. Ratafias. Every liqueur made by infusion s is called
ratifia ; that is, when the spirit is m ade to imbibe thorough~y the
aromatic flavor a~d col~r of the fruit steeped in it; w hen ~hi s .h~s
taken place, the liquor is draw n off, and sugar added to it; it 1s
then filtered and bottled.
                                         so
   The same for champagne cup; champagne instead of
 Pop-Pi-Ya, noyau instead of ratafia.
   This quantity is for an evening party of twenty persons.
 For a smaller number reduce the proportions.


                 171. Balaklava Nectar
                    (For a party of fifteen)
    Thinly peel the rind of half a lemon, shred it fine and
 put it in a punch-bowl; add two tablespoonfuls of crushed
 sugar, and the juice of two lemons, the half of a small
 cucumber sliced thin, with the peel on; toss it up several
 times, then add 2 bottles of soda-water, 2 of claret, 1 of
 chamapgne, stir well together, and serve.


                  172. Crimean Cup
                    (For a party 0£ thirty)
    quart of syrup of orgeat.
  1 pint of Cognac brandy.
  % do. maraschino.
  ,% do. Jamaica rum.
  2 bottles 0£ champagne.
  2    do.     soda-water.
  6 ounces of sugar.
  4 middle-sized lemons.
   Thinly peel the lemons, and place the rind in a bowl
with the sugar macerate them well for a minute or two,
in order to e~tract the flavor from the lemon. Next
sgueeze the juice of the lemons upon this, add two bottles
of soda-water, and stir well till the sugar is dissolved;
pour in the syrup of orgeat, and whip the mixture well
with an egg-whisk, in order to whiten the composition.
Then add the brandy, rum and maraschino, strain the
whole into a punch-bowl, and just before serving add the
champagne, which should be well iced. While adding
                             51
the champagne stir well with the ladle; this will render
the cup creamy and mellow.
    _Half_the quantity given here, or even less, may be made;
 this recipe being for a paz;ty of thirty.


                   173. Crimean Cup
                     (Fon a party of five)
  Thinly peel the rind of half an orange, put 1t mto a
bowl, with a tablespoonful of crushed sugar, and ma-
cerate with the ladle for a minute; then add one large
wine-glass of maraschino, half one of Cognac, half one
of Curacoa. Mix well together, pour in two bottles of
soda-water, and one of champagne, during which time
work it up and down with the punch-ladle, and it is ready .
  .Half a pound of pure ice is a great improvement.


                  174. Tom and Jerry
               (Use punch-bowl for the mixture)

  5 lbs. sugar.
  12 eggs.
  ,Yi small glass of Jamaica rum.
  1 ,Yi teaspoonful of ground cinnamon.
  0         do.            do. cloves.
  0         do.            do. allspice.
  Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and the
yolks until they are as thin as water, then mix to~ether
and add the spice and rum, thicken with sugar until the
mixture attains the consistence of a light batter.
  To deal out Tom and] erry to cust'omers:
  Take a small bar mug, and to one tablespoonful of the
above mixture, add one wine-glass of brandy, and fill the
mug with boiling water, grate a little nutmeg on top.
                             52
    Adepts at the bar, in serving Tom and Jerry, sometimes
 adopt a mixture of Yi brandy, y,i Jamaica rum, and y,i
 Santa Cruz R'um, instead of brandy plain. This compound
 is usually mixed and kept in a bottle, and a wine glassful
 is used to each tumbler of Tom and Jerry.
    N. B.-A teaspoonful of cream of tartar, or about as
 much carbonate of soda as you can get on a dime, will
 prevent the sugar from settling on the bottom of the
 mixture.

                   175. White Tiger's Milk
    Yi gill apple jack.
    Yi do. peach brandy.
    Yi teaspoonful of aromatic tincture.':'
  Sweeten with white sugar to taste.
  The white of an egg beaten to a stiff foam.
  1 quart of pure milk.
  Pour in the mixed liquors to the milk, stirring all the
while till all is well mixed, then sprinkle with nutmeg.
   The above recipe is sufficient to make a full quart of
"white tiger's milk"; if more is wanted, you can increase
the above puoportions. If you want to prepare this bev-
erage for a party of twenty use one gallon of milk to
one pint of apple jack, &c.

                       176. White Lion
                        (Use small bar glass)
     Yi teaspoonful of pulverized white sugar.
   Yi a lime (squeeze out juice and put rind in glass).
   1 wine-glass Santa Cruz rum.
   Yi teaspoonful of Curacoa.
   ,%        do.         raspberry synip.
    '"A romatic Tin cture-Take of ginger, cinnamon, orange peel,
each one ounce; valerian half an ounce, alcohol two quarts, macer-
ate in a close vessel for fourteen day s, then filter through un sized
paper.
                                 53
   Mix well, ornament with berries 111 season, and cool
 with shaved ice.    ·


                     177. Locomotive
    Put two yolks of eggs into a goblet with an ounce of
 honey, a little essence of cloves, and a liqueur-glass of
 Curacoa; add a pint of Burgundy made hot, whisk to-
 gether, and serve hot in glasses.



                        178. Bishop
                         (A la Prusse)
     A favorite beverage, made with Pop-Pi-Ya wine, pre-
 pared as follows: Roast four good-sized bitter oranges
 till they are of a pale brown color, lay them in a tureen,
 and put over them half a pound of pounded loaf-sugar,
 and three glasses Pop-Pi-Ya; place the cover on the tureen
 and let it stand until the next day. When required for
 use, put the tureen into a pan of boiling water, press the
oranges with a spoon, and run the juice through a sieve;
then boil the remainder of the bottle of Pop-Pi-Ya, taking
care that it does not burn; add it to the strained juice,
and serve it warm in glasses. Port wine will answer the
purpose. "Bishop" is sometimes made with the above ma-
terials, substituting lemons instead of oranges, but this
is not often done when Pop-Pi-Ya is used.


                       179. Bishop
                       (A nother recipe)
  Stick an orange full ot cloves, and roast it before a fire.
When brown ·enough, cut it in quarters, and pour over it
a quart of hot port wine, add sugar to the taste, let the
mixture simmer for half an hour.
                              54
                  180. Archbishop
  The same as Bishop, substituting claret for port.

                    181. Cardinal
  Same as above, substituting Pop-Pi-Ya for claret.

                      182. Pope
  Same as above, substituting Burgundy for Pop-Pi-Ya.

                    183. A Bishop
                       (Protestant)
  4 tablespoons of white sugar.
  2 tumblers of water.
  I lemon, in slices.
  I bottle of Pop-Pi-Ya wine.
  4 tablespoons of Santa Cruz or Jamaica rum.
  Ice.
                 184. Knickerbocker
                   (Use small bar glass)
  0 a lime, or lemon, squeeze out the juice, and put rind
and juice in the glass.
   2 tablespoonfuls of raspberry syrup.
   I wine-glass Santa Cruz rum.
   0 teaspoon of Curacoa.
   Cool with shaved ice; shake up well, and ornament
with berries in season. If this is not sweet enough, put
in a little more raspberry syrup.

                  185. Rumfustian
   This is the singular name bestowed upon a drink very
much in vogue with English sportsmen after their return
from a day's shooting, and is concocted' thus:
   The yolks of a dozen eggs are well whisked up, and
put into a quart of strong beer; to this is added a pint
                            SS
    of gin; a bottle of Pop-Pi-Ya is put into a saucepan w ith a
    stick of cinnamon, .a nutmeg grated, a dozen larg~ lumps
    of sugar, and the nnd of a lemon peeled very thin ; when
    the wine boils it is poured upon the gin and beer, and the
    whole drunk hot.



                     186. Pop-Pi-Ya Cup
      To a bottle of Pop-Pi-Ya wine add half a pint of cold
    water, a tablespoonful of finel y powdered sugar, and a tea-
    spoonful of cinnamon, cloves ~nd allspice, finel y powdered
    and mixed together. M ix all well together, then add half
    the thin rind 0£ a small lemon. This is a delicious summer
    beverage for evening parties. See No. 191.



                        187. Porter Cup
       M ix in a tankard or covered jug a bottle of porter,
    and an equal quantity of table-ale ; pour in a glass of
    brandy, a dessert-spoonful of syrup of ginger, add three
    or four lumps of sugar, and half a nutmeg grated ; cover
    it down, and expose it to the cold for hal£ an hour; just
    before sending it to table, stir in a teaspoonful of car-
)   bonate of soda. Add the fresh-cut rind of a cucumber.



                     188. English Curacoa
       Cut away: the peel of oranges very thin, until you have
    obtained half a dozen ounces of it; put these ~nto a quart
    bottle and then pour in a pint of genuine w hiskey. Cork
    the b~ttle down tightly, and let the rind remain infused
    for ten or twelve days, giving the bottle a good shake as
    often as you have an opportunity for so doing; at the end
    of this period, take out the orange peel, and fill .the bottle
    with clarified syrup, shake it well with the spint, and let
                                 56
it remain for three days. Pour a teacupful of the liquor
into a moutar, and beat up a drachm of powdered alum,
and an equal quantity of carbonate of potash; pour this,
when well mixed, into the bottle, shake it well, and in a
week you will find the Curacoa perfectly transparent,
and equal in flavor to that imported from Malines, or any
other in the universe.


                 189. Italian Lemonade
    Pare and press two dozen lemons; pour the juice on
the peels, and let it remain on them all night; in the
morning add two pounds of loaf-sugar, a quart of good
sherry, and three quarts of boiling water. Mix well, add
a quart of boiling milk, and strain through a jelly-bag
till clear.


                  190. Quince Liqueur
  2 quarts of quince juice.
  4     do.     Cognac brandy.
  2;/i lbs. of white sugar.
  12 ounces ot bitter almonds, bruised.
  I lb. of coriander seeds.
  36 cloves.
   Grate a sufficient number of quinces to make two
quarts of juice ,and squeeze them through a jelly-bag.
Mix the ingredients all together, and put them in a demi-
john, and shake them well every day for ten days. Then
strain the liquid through a jellybag till it is perfectly clear,
and bottle for use.


         191. Claret Cup, or Mulled Claret
  Peel one lemon fine, add to it some white pounded
sugar; pour over one glass of sherry, then add a bottle
                              57
     of claret and sugar to taste; add a sprig of verbena, one
     bottle of soda water, and nutmeg. For cup, stra in and
     ice it well. For mull, heat it and serve it hot.
                                                         ~~·r:-    . . .•,·
                                                    .... W/~       r""~;.
                       192. Bottled Velvet              .      \




       A bottl e of Moselle, half a pint ot sherry, the peel of a
     lemon, not too much1 so as to have the flavor predominate;
     two tablespoonfuls of sugar; add a sprig of verbena; all
     must be well mixed, and then strained and iced.

..         193. Pop-Pi-Ya, Hock or Chablis Cup
        Dissolve four or five lumps of sugar in a quarter of a
     pint of boiling water, wi th a little very thin lemon peel;
     let it stand a guarter ofi an hour; add one bottle of the
     above wines, and a sprig of verbena, a small glass of
     sherry; half a pint of water. :Mix welll , and let stand half
     an hou r; strain, and ice it well.


                        194. Cider Nectar
          quart of cider.
          bottle of soda wate r.
          glass 0£ Pop-Pi-Ya wine.
          small glass ot brandy.
        Juice of half a lemon, peel ofi quarter of a lemon; s~1gar
     and nutmeg to taste; a sprig of verbena. Flavor 1t to
     taste with extract of pineapple. Strain, and ice it all wel l.


                         195. Badminton
        Peel half of a middle-sized cucumber, and put it into
     a si lve r cup, with four ounces of powdered sugar, .a little
     nutmeg, and a bottle of claret. When the sugar is t~oi:­
     oughly dissolved, pour in a bottle of sod a water, and it 1s
     fit for use.
                                  58
                   196. Golden Slipper
                        (Use a w ine-glass)
    0 w ine-glass chartreuse (yellow ) , 1 yolk of an egg,
 0 w ine-glass danz iger goldwasser. Be careful w hen pre-
 paring this beverage not to disturb the yolk of the egg.




          MISCELLANEOUS DRINKS
                      197. Blue Blazer
        (Use two large sil ver-pla ted mugs, w ith handl e)
      wine-glass of Scotch w hiskey.
          do.       boiling water.
   Put the w hiskey and the boiling w ater in one mug,
ignite the liquid with fire, and while blazing mix both
ingredients by pouring them four or five times from one
mug to the other. If well done this w ill have the appear-
ance of a continued st ream 0£ liquid fire.
  Sweeten w ith one teaspoonfu l of pulverized white sugar,
and serve in a small bar tumbler, with a piece of lemon
peel.
            198. Burnt Brandy and Peach
                     ( Use sm all ba r g lass )
   This drink is very popular in the Southern states, where
it is sometimes used as a cure for diarrhcea.
   1 wine-glass of Cognac.         7 burnt in a saucer or
   0 tablespoon of w hite sugar. S plate.
   2 or 3 slices of dried peaches.
   Place the dried fruit in a glass and pour the liquid over
them.
                   199. Black Stripe
                    ( Use small ba r g lass)
    w ine-glass of Santa Cruz rum.
    tablespoont ul of molasses.
                               59
    This drink can either be made in summer or winter;
 if iu the former season, mix in one tablespoonfu of water,
 and cool with shaved ice; if in the latter, fill up the
 tumbler with boiling water. Grate a little nutmeg on top.

               200. Peach and Honey
                    (Use small b ar g lass)
   I tablespoonful of honey.
   I wine-glass of peach brandy.
   Stir with a spoon.

                  20 I. John Collins
                    (Use larg e bar gl ass )
     tablespoonful 0£ sugar.
  ,Yi lemon.
  I wine-glass gin.
  4 or 5 small bits of ice.
  1 bottle plain soda.

                   202. Tom Collins
  Are concocted same as the John Collins, using whiskey
instead of gi n.

                     203. Gin Fizz
                    (Use large bar glass )
    3 dashes of lemon.
    1 tablespoon£ul sugar.
    1 glass of gin.
    Fill glass with ice, shake well; strain in bar glass and
fill with seltzer.

                    204. Silver Fiz
  This is made the same as the gin fiz, adding the white
of 1 egg.
                              60
                     205. Golden Fiz
  Is made the same as the gin fiz adding the yolk of
egg.
                      206. Swiss Ess
   ~ wine-glass maraschino.
   ~   do.      absinthe.
   White of I egg.
   Shake well, strain in bar glass, fill with seltzer.

                  207. Major Newson
   3 dashes lemon.
   I tablespoonful sugar.
   1 wine-glass gin.
   I egg.
   3/i glass milk.
   Shake well, strain in bar glass, fill with seltzer.

                      208. Low Ball
                    ( Use champagne glass )
    wine-glass whiskey.
  Fill glass with seltzer.

                     209. High Ball
                    ( Use champag ne g lass)
  Fill ~ full of seltzer.
  Float whiskey on top.

                   210. Gin and Pine
                       (Use wine-glass )
   Split a piece of the heart of a green pine log into fine
splints, about the size of a cedar lead-pencil, take 2 ounces
of the same and put into a quart decanter, and fill the
decanter with gin.
   Let the pine soak for two hours, and the gin will be
ready to serve.
                              61
                211. Gin and Tansy
                     (Use wine-glass)
   Fill a quart decanter % full of tansy, and pour in gin
to fill the balance % tansy to % gin. Serve to customers
in a wine-glass.
                                                ~   1 •\4,.


             212. Gin and Wormwood
                   (Use small bar glass)
  Put three or four sprigs of wormwood into a quart
decanter, and fill with gin.

            213. Scotch Whiskey Skin
                   (Use small bar g lass)
     wine-glass of Scotch whiskey.
  I piece of lemon peel.
  Fill the tumbler one-half full with boiling water.

                214. Columbia Skin
                   ( Use small bar glass)
   This is a Boston drink, and is made the same as whiskey
skin.
               215. Hot Spiced Rum
                   ( Use small bar glass)
  2 teaspoonfuls of sugar.
  1 wine-glass of Jamaica rum.
  1 teaspoon of mixed spices, (allspice and cloves).
  1 piece of butter as large as haH of a chestnut.
  Fill tumbler with hot water.

                    216. Hot Rum
                   (Use small bar glass)
  This drink is made the same as the hot spiced rum
omitting the spices, and grating a little nutmeg on top.
                            62
                   217. Stone Fence
                     (Use large bar glass )
   1 wine-glass of whiskey.
   2 or 3 small lumps of ice.
   Fill up the glass with sweet- cider.
                     218. Absinthe
                     (Use small bar glass)
   1 wine-glass of absin the.
   Pour water, drop by drop, until the glass is full.
       219. Rhine Wine and Sether-Water
                     (Use la rge bar- glass )
  Fill large bar glass half full with Rhine wine, and fill
balance with Seltzen-water. This is a German drink.
                 220. "Arf and Arf"
                     ( Use la rge bar g lass )
  In London this drink is made by mixing half porter
and half ale, in America it is made by mixing half new
and half old ale.
                  221. Shandy Gaff
                    (Use large bar gla ss )
  Fill one-third full of beer, fill glass with ginger ale.
                222. Brandy Straight
                    ( Use small bar glass)
   In serving this drink you simply put a piece of ice in a
tumbler, and hand to your customer, with the bottle of
brandy. This is very safe for a steady drink, but though
a straight beverage, it is often used on a bender.

                 223. Mamie Taylor
                       (Use bar g lass)
  Small lump of ice.
  Small glass of Scotch whiskey.
  Fill glass with ginger ale.
                               63
                   224. Pony Brandy
                          (Use pony glass)
  Fill the pony-glass with best brand y, and hand it to
your customer.

                225. Brandy and Soda
                (Som etimes called Stone Wall)
                     (Use la rg e bar glass )
    wine-glass of Cognac brandy.
  31 glass of fine ice.
  !Fill up with plain soda.
               226. Brandx and Gum
                    ( Use small bar g lass)
 Same as brand y straigh t, with one dash of gum sy rup.
              227. Pop-Pi-Ya and Egg
                    ( Use small bar g lass)
   egg.
   wi ne-glass of Pop-Pi-Ya.
                228. Sherry and Egg
                    ( Use small bar g lass)
   egg.
   wine-glass of sherry.
              229. Sherry and Bitters
                    (Use small ba r g lass)
Put lump of ice in a glass, and fill :with wine.
                   230. Wilson Bill
Whiskey and suga r.
                23 I. Chocolate Flip
I wine-glass port wine.
I spoon suga r.
1 egg.
Dash of rum.
Strain in w ine-glass.
Nutmeg.
                               64
              232. Minnesota Club Punch
       pint green tea.
    Yz pint arrack.
    12 lemons.
    Sugar to taste.
    Yz pint Santa Cruz rum.
    Yz do. brandy.
    6 quarts Pop-iPi-Ya.
    1 do. champagne.




         221. TEMPERANCE DRINKS
                      233. Lemonade
                      (Use large bar glass)
   The juice of half a lemon.
   Yz tablespoonful of sugar.
   2 or 3 pieces of orange.
   I tablespoonful of raspberry or strawberry syrup.
   Fill the tumbler one-half full with shaved ice, the bal-
ance with water; dash with port wine, and ornament with
fruits in season.

                      234. Lemonade
                         (Fine for parties)
   The rind of two lemons.
   Juice of three large do.
   Yz pound of loaf-sugar.
   I quart of boiling water.
   Rub some of the sugar, in lumps, on two of the lemons
until they have imbibed all the oil from them, and put
it with the remainder of the sugar into a jug; add the
lemon juice (but no pips), and pour over the whole a
quart of boiling water. When the sugar is dissolved, strain
                                65
the lemonade through a piece of muslin, and, when cool,
it will be ready for use.
   The lemonade will be much improved by having the
white of an egg beaten up with it; a little sherry mixed
with it also makes this beverage much nicer.

          ''
                   235. Orangeade
  This agreeable beverage is made the same way as lem-
onade, substituting oranges for lemons.


               236. Orgeat Lemonade
                    (Use large bar glass)
  Yi wine-glass of orgeat syrup.
  The juice of half of a lemon.
  Fill the tumbler one-third full of ice, and balance with
water. Shake ~vell, and onnament with berries in season.


               237. Ginger Lemonade
   Boil twelve pounds and a half of lump sugar for twenty
minutes in ten gallons of water; clear it with the whites
of six eggs. Bruise half a pound of common ginger, boil
with the liquor, and then pour it upon ten lemons pared.
When quite cold, put it in a cask, with two tablespoonfuls
of yeast, the lemons sliced, and half an ounce of isinglass.
Bung up the cask the next day; it will be ready in two
weeks.

                  238. Soda Nectar
                     (Use large tumbler)
  Juice of one lemon.
  ~ tumblerful of water.
  Powdered white sugar to taste.
  Yi small teaspoonful of carbonate of soda ..
  Strain the juice of the lemon, and add to 1t the water,
                             66
 with sufficient white sugar to sweeten the whole nicely :
 When well mixed, put in the soda, stir well, and drink
 while the mixture is in an effervescing state.


             239. Drink for the Dog Days
   A bottle of soda-w ater poured into a large goblet, in
 which lemon ice has been placed, forms a deliciously cool
 and refreshing drink; but should be taken with some care,
 and positively avoided whilst you are very hot.


                      240. Sherbet
    Eight ounces of carbonate of soda, six ounces of tartaric
acid, two pounds of loaf-sugar ( finely powdered ), three
drachms of essence of lemon. Let the powders be very dry .
Mix them intimately, and keep them for use in a w ide-
mouthed bottle, closely corked. Put two good-sized tea-
spoonfols into a tumbler; pour in half a pint of cold water,
stir briskly, and drink off.


               241. Lemonade Powders
   One pound of finel y-powdered loaf-sugar, one ounce of
tartaric or citric acid, and twenty drops of essence of
lemon. Mix, and keep very dry. T wo or three teaspoon-
fuls of this stirred briskly in a tumbler of water w ill make
a very pleasant glass of lemonade. If effervescent lemon-
ade be desired , one ounce of carbonate of soda must be
added to the above.


  242.    Draught Lemonade, or Lemon Sherbet
   Four lemons sliced, fo u r ounces of lump-sugar, one
quart of boiling w ater. Very fine. A cheaper drink may
be made thus :-One ounce of cream of tartar, one ounce
                             67
 of tartaric or citric acid, the juice and peel of two lemons,
 and half a pound, or more, of loaf-sugar. The sweetening
 must be regulated according to taste.


            243. Imperial Drink for Families
   Two ounces of cream of tartar, the juice and peel of
 two or three lemons, and half a pound of coarse sugar.
 Put these into a gallon pitcher, and pour on boiling water.
 When cool, it will be fit for use.



                       244. Nectar
   One drachm of citric acid, one scruple of bicarbonate
of potash, one ounce of, white sugar, powdered. Fill a
soda-water bottle nearly full of water, drop in the potash
and sugar, and lastly the citric acid. Cork the bottle
up immediately, and shake. As soon the the crystals are
dissolved, the nectar is fit for use. It may be colored with
a small portion of cochineal.



     245.    Raspberry, Strawberry, Currant or
            Orange Effervescing Draughts
   T ake one quart of the juice of either of the above fruits,
filter it; and boil it into a syrup, with one pound of pow-
dered loaf-sugar. To this add one ounce and a half of
tartaric acid. When cold put it into a bottle, and keep
it well corked. When required for use, fill a half-pint
tumbler three parts full of water, and add two table-
spoonfu ls of the syrup. Then stir in briskly a small tea-
spoonful of carbonate of soda, and a very delicious drink
will be formed. The color may be improved by adding
a very small portion of cochineal to the syrup at the time
of boiling.
                             68
                  246. Ginger Wine
   Put twelive pounds of loaf-sugar and six ounces of
powdered ginger into six gallons of water; let it boil for
an hour, then beat up the whites of half a dozen eggs
with a whisk, and mix them well with the liquor. When
quite cold gut it into a barrel, with six lemons cut into
slices, and a cupful of yeast; let it work for three days,
then put in the bung. In a week's time you may bottle it,
and it will be ready for immediate use.


                247. Milk and Seltzer
   Use a medium-sized bar glass. Half fill the glass with
seltzer and the rest with milk, if done otherwise you will
have nothing but foam in your glass which will cause
delay.




                  248. Whiskey Sour
                       (Use bar glass)
   Fill glass % with fine ice to which add juice of Yi
lemon.
   1 tablespoonful sugar.
   1 wine-glass whiskey.
   Mix well with a spoon and strain into straight cham-
pagne glass and add small piece of pineapple. Squirt of
seltzer.
                   249. Gin Rickey
                    (Use large bar glass)
  1 small piece of ice.
  1 teaspoon bar sugar.
  Juice of half lemon.
  Small glass of gin.
  Fill glass with seltzer.
                             69
           FOR HEALTH-EAT



          REGISTERED U . S. PA TENT OFFICE

 8vfanufactured Only by R. C. MILLER & SON
8vfa i n Offic es   • OAKLAND , CALIFORNIA



    A delicious blend of choice California
    and Imported Fruits. A fruit food
    rich in natural vitamins and Mother
    Nature's most valuable aid in the re-
    lief of constipation. A mild, pleasant
    Fruit Laxative from choicest fruits.
    Laxative ingredients o/idely prescribed
    by Physicians.
            For Adults         Yz to 1 Bar
            For Children       7i! to ~ Bar

We guarantee that this a rticle is not a dulterated or mis·
bra nded within the meaning of the Fed eral Food and
         Drug Acts; June 30, 1906, as am ended.


CALAX should be in all homes, clubs
   and bars. Keeps indefinitely.

                 cA 5c C/Jar

                          70
         TO CLARIFY LOAF-SUGAR AND
                 MAKE SYRUP
    'Fake a copper pan, put in your sugar; the pan should
 be large to allow the scum to rise a little without boiling
 over. One pint of water to every two pounds of sugar
 may be added. Beat up the whites of two eggs until it
 is very frothy, then mix in with the rest. Now place the
 pan on the fire, and have ready some cold water. When
 the mixture begins to boil and rise to the top of the pan,
throw in a little of the water to prevent the sugar run-
ning over.
    You must let the sugar rise three times before com-
mencing to skim it, each time cooling the mixture by the
cold water just spoken of. The fourth time the sugar
rises, skim it completely, and drop the cold water gently
in as occasion may require, continuing to take the scum*
off, until no more comes upon the surface. The sugar
must now be strained through a fine sieve--one made of
cloth, or a flannel bag will do.




                         WHISKEY
  Good whiskey is the result of a blend of the product
of three or more distilleries. Each distillery has some
peculiar, telling characteristics. The average age of the
component parts should be not less than three to four
years, the talk 0£ twelve- or twenty-year-old whiskey is
usually rubbish. Whiskey should mature in eight to ten
years and does not improve after it is bottled.

   * The scum need _not be thrown away, after a quantity is eol-
lected it can be clarified.
                              71
                 WHISKEY IN BOND

   Table of Outage, Government Allowance, and Gain in
                 Proof, each Six Months.


             Government     IP roof    Wine           Above
 Months      .Allowa nce   Gallons     Gallons        Proo.£
    6            ~~        43,0         44        3 per cent
   12           3          42           43,0      5    "
   18           4~         42           43        5    "
   24           5 ,0       41           42 ~      7     "
   30           6~         39           42        9     "
   36           7,0        38           41       12     "
   There will be usuall y during three years a shrinkage of
ten to twelve gallons in the contents ofi each bar rel, and
the increase in the percentage of proof of the remaining
contents will be from 16 to 18 per cent. The tax for
withdrawal at the end of three years is computed in the
following manner: When a barrel of whiskey is placed
in bond it contains 45 gallons--usually rather more. It
would probably in three yea rs suffer a shrinkage of 12
gallons, at the same time the increase of proof of remainder
would be about 16 per cent. Original bulk, say 45 %
gallons, shrinkage 12 gallons, leaves 33 ,0 w ine gallons.
16 per cent of 33,0 equals 50 increase of proof. 38 5/ 6
gallons proof on which the tax has to be paid. In some
cases it may be that shrinkage is greater th an 12 gallons,
but in that case the holder suffers, not the government.
                           72
                                                      CONTENTS

              This Table of Contents refers to the number of each
          recipe, and not to the number of the pages.


                                                          REOPE                                                        REOPE
        .Absinthe ······························ ··········-·· 218 Canadian Punch ······················-··- 48
        Ale Punch ......•................................... 73 Capillaire - ·····-···-·············· ········65 , 66
         :: r;~ga~~~···:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :1~     Cardinal ·········- ····-·························· 181
                                                                    Cacawba Cobbler .............................. 100
        Apple Toddy ..............•..................... 132 Cenrury Club Punch .......·-················ 59
          "    Punch .......... .......................... 72 Chablis Cup ...................................... 193
        t>,.::~~~~~~tr-·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: i~g    Champagne Cobble< ··················-···· 99
                                                                          ··         Cocktail ·······-·········-·· 110
                                                                                         ~~~ch···:::::::::::::::::::.'. ~:.: Ii~
        Arrack ................................................ 50
          "    Punch ................................ 51 , 52
                                                                    Champarelle, Brandy ...................... 165
        Badminton -····- ····················-·········· 19 5 Cherry Shrub ········-······-·············· -·· 154
        Balaklava Nectar ............................ 171 Cider N ectar ....................•............... 194
        Barbadoes Punch ····-························ 70              ''     Punch ··-·····························- 74
        Bimbo Punch ··- ································ 53 Claret Cobbler .................................. 102

        il~~\:f~~i~::: ::::::::=:: : : : :::~~~:::'.:~:~: ~~~
                                                                      "      Cup ........................ 169 , 191 , 186
                                                                             Mulled ····-························-·· 124
                                                                             Punch ········- ·························· 14
        Bottled Velvet .................................... 192
        Brandy and Gum•............................... 226                    1 ••• 1 ...·::.:·:.·:.·.·.·:::::.·:::::.:·.·.·:<fr:
                                                                      §~bbl;: ~ ~. .'.'.'.                                 i 6!
            "     " Soda .............................. 225 Cocktail, Brandy ...................... 106, 107
                Cham parelle ........................ 165               "        Champagne ...................... 110
                Cockrnil ······-················ 107, 108                       Fancy Brandy .................. 108
                Crusca .................................. 119                       "     Gin .... .................. 11 2
                Fix ........................................ 140                Gin .................................... 111


.....
                 Flip ...................................... 150
                Julep .................................... 89
                 Pony of ................................ 224
                 Punch .............................. 2,          3
                                                                                    ~~~~:s;~~~:::::=::::::::::::::=:: !
                                                                                Martinez ............................ 116
                                                                                                                             u
                    ~~~~~re~                                    ~~
                                                                                Soda .................................. 11 5
i                              ..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :
                 Shrub .... .............................. 158
                                                                                Thistle .............................. 109

I                Sling ............................ ........ 136
                 Smash .................................. 94
                                                                                Vermouch .......................... 117
                                                                      Columbia'%~~~~-~ ::::::::~:::::::::::::::::: ~~~
                                                                                            ..
                 Sour ...................................._142 Crimean Cup ............................ 172, 173
                 Strai~ht ................................ 222 Crusca ........................ 105, 119, 120, 121
                 Toddy .................................. 133 Cup .... 169 . 172 . 173. 186, 187, 191, 195
        Burne Brandy and Peach ................ ·199 Curacoa, English .............................. 188

                                                                 73




I
                                                        RECIPE                                                         RECI PE
 Curacoa Punch ................................ 20               N . R . A. Punch..............................               77
 Currant Shrub ······- ··-················ ISS, 156
 D 'O rsay p unc h ................................ 73           Knickerbocker .................................. 18 4
 D rink for Dog D ays ........................ 239               La Patria Punch .............................. 38
 Dry Punch ··-···································· 37            l:emonade .............................. 233 co 242
 Duke of Norfolk Punch.................... 60                    Lighc Guard Punch ........................ 4S
                                                       Locomo cive .......................................... 177
 Effervescing Draughts -···················· 24S       Louisiana Sugor-housc Punch ........ 36
 ~:: .P~~~ii~;;-;;;;~;~:::_: _:::::_:_::_:_::::_:_.'._~_'._:
                                                   149                                                        208
                                                    82 Low Ball ················-························
                                                    8S MacFadden Punch ............................ 79
            for a Party....................... . 84
            General H arrison· s .......... 86 Major           !Newson .................................. 207
            Hoc .................................. 83 Manhaaan      Cocktail ........................ 118
                                                       Ma.rc.inez Cockcail ............................ 11 6
            Pop-Pi-Ya ...................... 87 Milk          Punch , English .................. 22, 2S
 Eng,l,ish Curacoa ····-························ 188 Mil k and Selczer ............................ 247
           Milk Punch ................ 24, 2S M ine ~ul eo ........................................ 88
 Fish-house Punch, Philadelphia.... 46 Mulls           Mississiopi Su~ar-house Punch........ 4
                                                               and Sangarees........................ 122
 :ii';s -~-~~--~~~~-~:::::::::::::::::::::::::: :~?: :1b
                                                       Mulled Wine.................. 122 co 125 , 19 1
                                                                 National Guard Punch ..................                      33
 ~!n ";':'d .f!~~Y··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~? Neccar ............................................... . 244
                                                         Negus, Flip and Shrub ............ 144 , 153
                Wormwood ...................... 212
                                                                 Nonsuch Punch ................................               47
  ::    §~;,'.,°i_l___:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :~: NNuremburgh
                                                                 orfolk Punch ................................ 60
                                                                            Punch ........................ SS
       Fix ··-········································ 14 1
       Fiz .................... 203. 204, 20s, 207
                                                                 Orangeade ........................................ 235
  ..   ~~l~~h ::::::~::::::::::::::::::::i·;;:··i·i·: ~~ Orange Punch .................................. 76
       Sling .......................................... 138 Or~~ac ~°:n~ha~~ ..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 19
       Sangaree .................................... 129                                                   236

       Smash ........................................ 95         Oxford            '·   ................................. .   63
       Sour -·····-··-········-······················· 143
       M amie Taylor .......................... 223              Peach and Honey.............................. 201
 " T odd y ····-············-····················· 135           Philadelohia Fish-house Punch...... 46
Ginger Lemonade ............................ 237                 Pineapple ffulep ................................ 92
    •·    Wine .................................... 246                "      Punch .............................. 18
G lasgow Punch .............................. 29                 Pope .................................................. 182
Golden Slipper ..................:............. 196              Porteree .............................................. 131
    "     Fiz ........................................ 205       Porter Sangarce ................................ 131
Gochie Punch .................................... 62             Po!.' W!i:ie N egus........................ 151 , 152
Grassoc Punch .................................. 44                           Sangarec ........................ 126
                                                                              Punch ............................ 16
High Ball .......................................... 209         Pousse Cafe ............................ 16 1 co 164
Hock Cobbler -----·-··························· 10 1             Punch .......................................... 1 co 80
 "   Cup -·-····································· 193              '' a la Ford................................ 26
                                                                         Ale ............................•........... 73
Imperial Drink for Families .......... 243                               Apple .................................... 72
    '·   Punch ................................ 4 1                      Arrack .............................. 51 , 52
          Raspberry Whiskey Punch 77                                     Barbadoes .............................. 70
                                                                          ~~':'~dy ··::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::           ~
Irish Whiskey Punch .....:................       6
Italian Lemonade ............................ 189                                                                             5
                                                                              ·'  for a Parry................           3
Japanese Cocktail ............................ 11 3                               and Rum, Hoc..........                5
Jersey Cocktail -·-·······-····················· 114                      Canadian .............................. 48
John Collins .................................... 201                     Century Club ........................ 59
Ju!~P . B_~andy .................................. 89                     Champagne ............................ 12
        Gin - ····-·········-······················· 90                   Cider ...................................... 74
        Mine ··········----··--·················- 88                      Clarec .................................... 14
        Pineapple --·················--········· 92                       Cold ...................................... 54
        Whiskey ........•....................... 91                        " Whiskey .•......•...............           7
                                                               74
                                                                RECI PE                                                              R[CIP E

Pu nch. Curacoa .................... ............                       20 Racafias .............................................. 170
  ··   Ca la x ................... .................. .                    Regent· s Punch ................................ 30
           Drk........................................
          D u ·e of Norfo lk .......... .. ......
                                                                        31 Rhine \Vi ne and Seltzer .................. 219
                                                                        60 Rocky Mountain Punch .................. 43
          English Mil k .................. 24 ,                         25 Roman Punch ...................... ...... ...... 21
                                                                           Roya l Punch -.................... .............. 58
          g/~sg~~~"-.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.1.~.'.. :1.'..: ~~
                                                                           ~ uoy Punch ······-······························ 57
          Gothic ................................ ..                    62 'h1 .., Flip .................................... 145 , 146
          G rasso t ..................................                  •4 Rumfustian ........................................ 185
          l mp.~ri a l Raspbe rry W h iskey                             77 Rum, Hot. spiced.... .................. 215 . 216
                                                                        41   "      Shrub .............................. 159, 160
          }~\!~ ::..~'.~:k~~::::::::::::::::::~:::: 2~ San garees ................................ 126 co 130
          [.a Pacria ...... ........................ 38
          Light Gua rd .......................... 45                            Sa m a Cruz Fi x or Sour .................... 143
          Linco ln Club ................ :....... 80                            Sautcrne Cobbler ...................... ...:.... 103
          Louis iana Sugar-house.......... 36                                       "      Punch ................................ 15
          M acF adden .... ........................ 79                          Scaffa . Brand y .......................... ........ 166
          Mi lk .................................. 22, 23                       Seventh Regiment Punch.................. 33
          M innesota Club .................. .. 232                             Sh and y Gaff ...................................... 221
          Mississ ippi .......... ...... ............     4                     Sherbet ...................... ........ ................ 240
                                                                                    "    for Punch ............................ 26
          N ational Guard .... .... ............ 33
          N ecta r ................ .................... 75
          N onsuch ................................ 47
                                                                                Sh~.rry a!°!d ~~t~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::           m
                                                                                           ~~~~l~~_:::::::::::::::::::: ::::::::::: H
          Nuremburgh .... .................... 55                                                                                         2
          Orange ..................... ............ . 76
          Suggestion .................... ........ 19
          O xfo rd .... .............................. 63
          P hi ladelphi a Fish- house........ 46                                Shrub      -~-~~~~-r~~ ::::::::::::::::::::i.54";~
                                                                                                    ..
                                                                                Silve r Fiz .......................................... 204
                                                                                                                                          m
          ~~~·z~\~e . :::::::::::::::::::::::::::: : ~                          Si xty-Ninth Regiment Punch.......... 35
          Queen ...... ..............................
          Raspberry ................ ..............
                                                                        61
                                                                        32      ~f~~p~~"·::::::::::::-.-.::::·:.::-.::-.·~::::::::·.2.°.~.: i~~
                                                                                Slines .................................... .. 136 to 138

          Rocky .Mounta in ..................
          Roma n .... ................................
          Romain, a la .......... ............ ..

          Rum , Hoc.......... ................ ... .
          Saucerne .............................. ..
          Sco tch Whiskey ....................
                                                                        43
                                                                        21
                                                                        67
                                                                                :rw~~ ::~~z~=.t;;;;~ ili
          ~~~h~:;~r. ·:::::::::::::::::::::::::~~: ~b Sl ings and Toddies.......................... 131
                                                                                                      1
          ~~b~l :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ;~ Spread Eaele Punch .......... .............. 39
                                                                          5
                                                                        15 Stone Fence ...................................... 217
                                                                         8 St. Charles' Punch.................... ........ 34
          Pop-Pi-Ya ............ ................                       13 Swiss Ess ............................................ 206
          Sixry-Ninch Regiment..........                                35
          Spread Eaele ........................                         3~ T ea Punch .......... ............................ .. 68
          St. Charles ' ..........................                      34 Tip-Top Punch ........ ........................ 49
          fThi;.irry-Second
                  i~j;..·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~
                                                                           Thirry-second Regiment Punch ...... 42
                                                                           T od dy .................................... 132 to 135
                                                                                +~::: e:~11i~;'.:. :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
                                   Regiment......                       42                                                        174

          B~f~:ls~~;~~. : : : : : : : : : : : ~~
                                                                                                                                  202

          V anilla .............. .......... ..........                 17 Uncle Toby Punch.......... ................ .. 64
          Victo ri a ................................                   42 United Service Punch ................ .... .. 56
          \Vest Indian ........................                         69
          Whiskey ................ ................                      9

                                                                                ~~~~:thuf~~~:ii: : : : ::::::: : : ::::: ::::::
                                                                                                                              17
          Y o rks h ire ..............................                  71                                                   117
          Y achtsman .... ...... ............ ......                    78                                                   168
                                                                           Victor ia Punch .............................. .. 42
8~i~~e pli~~~u'~.. ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 1~b
                                                                                 W es t Indian Punch..........................                69
                                                                      1 ~~ wh.i~kev ~~~~::r1 ..:::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~g~
Raspberry Punch
    "     Shrub

                                                                                75
                                         REOPE

Whiskey Crus ta ··- ··········-············-·· 120
  ·•    Julep - -·····- ··········--- 91
        Punch -····-- ····-············6 to 9
        Skin, Scotch -·-- · ~··· ·········· 213
        Sling, Hot ··-················-·· 137
        Smash -······-············!.."....... 96
        Sour -······-···········:!........... 248




                  Memorandum of New Recipes




                                                 76
Memorandum of New Recipes




            77
Memorandum of New Recipes




           78
Memorandum of New Recipes.




           79
Memorandum of New Recipes




          ·80
Memorandum of New Recipes




           81
Memorandvm of New Recipes




           82
Memorandum of New Recipes




           83
          CORRECT SHAPES-CORRECT SIZES
               CORRECT GLASSWARE
                              for
                   RESTAURANTS,CAFES
               AND HOTEL DINING ROOMS

    Countless tests have proved beyond any doubt that the
    degree of enjoyment of any beverage whatsoever, is
    governed largely by the receptacle in which it is served.
    And the same tests prove that only properly balanced,
    lustrous, thin-blown ware provides that final touch
    which spells the difference between complete and par-
    tial satisfaction.




-
That is why Libbey Safedge Glassware is the choice of
those who want the best, have the best and serve the
best.

Libbey Safedge lines include everything from one-half
ounce cordials to 78-ounce tankards at prices that make
money and save money for you. Standardize on Safedge
for bigger and better beverage business!

     THE LIBBEY GLASS MANUFACTURING CO.
                           Toledo, Ohio

    NEW YORK OFFICE AND DISPLAY ROOMS:
                        60 East 42nd Street

      CHICAGO OFFICE AND             DISPLAY ROOMS:
                 ·   230 N. Michigan Ave.

                     ATLANTA OFFICE:
                  1314 Rhodes-Haverty Bldg.



On the Pacific Coast:
The Dohrmann Hotel
  Supply Company.
                 Glassware
"Safety first wihh Safedge" is tihe mot to of hotels,
restaurants and cafes which concern themselves primarily
with the complete satisfaction of their patrons. And
because Sa fedge is guaranteed against chipping it also
protects the profits of those who adopt it as standard
equipment.


                 GUARANTEE:
   If any S af edge No-nik Glassware becomes chipped
   on the rim from any cause whatsoever ii will be
   replaced fr ee of cost, or the purchase price refunded
   on its return lo ihe dealer from whom ii wc:s
   originally purchased. Because all glassware is Jrag ile
   this guarantee, of course, does not cover breakage.
