I' 1.1
iTiVrflllTl*-'—   ■
     Copyright,1933
     A. E. P. Bird
  William C. Turner




Published December, 1933




     Printed in U.S.A.
 The Read Printing Company
         New York
                 THEIR Kicks
                           AND
                 Side-Kicks



                 Being a brief treatise on the
                 mixing of palatably good things
                 and the recondite delights therein




Bird & Turner                                         Publishers
79 Wall Street                                          New York
OREWORD


F This little volume is presented as a toast to the
Cocktail Shaker of today and tomorrow. It specifies
recipes for cocktails, highballs, punches and so
forth, grouped under the following chapters:
               COSMOPOLITANS
          TROPICAL CRUISE SPECIALS
                     DIXIE GEMS
                  HOLIDAY CHEER
               COUNTRY CLUR ECHOES

  It also gives directions for the preparation of a
selected number of canapes.

      Under the title "The Dutchess Entertains" are
suggestions for the proper serving of cocktails,
wines and liqueurs, page 23.

      "Cellarette" suggests spirits, syrups and gar
    nishes necessary to mixing the majority of drinks,
    page 22.

                             1



    yO know the vintage ... one need not swallow
      the whole cask."
                                                 Old Proverb.
                Cosmopolitans

                  ABSINTHE SPECIAL
        Absinthe, 4 parts         Gin, 1 part
SjTup of Anisette, 1 part     Orange Bitters, 6 dashes
             Angostura Bitters, 6 dashes
                                                              PAGE
  Shake thoroughly, strain into glasses, garnish with a
green olive; serve. The above will serve 6.
  As a side-kick, spread soda crackers with a paste made
of cream cheese, a little cream and plenty of horseradish.

                 BACARDI GRENADINE

      Bacardi, 4 parts          Grenadine, 1 part
                  Lemon juice, 1 part
  Stir well with ice, strain into glasses, add maraschino
cherry; serve. This will make 6 cocktails. (The propor
tion of Grenadine to lemon may he varied to suit individual
taste. The fair sex prefer them sweet.)
  For a canape, spread round saltine cracker with anchovie
paste and garnish with pimento.

                          BRONX

    Gin, 2 parts      French Vermouth, 1 part
Italian Vermouth, 1 part     Orange juice, 1/3 part
   Shake well with ice, strain into glasses, add pickled
filbert to each; serve. Two per person give good appetite.
The above makes 4 portions.
  As a side-kick, wrap green olive with bacon strip, secur
ing both with toothpick; grill till bacon is crisp; serve.
                    BRONX SPECIAL
     Gin, 2 parts     French Vermouth, 2 parts
Italian Vermouth, 2 parts Orange Bitters, 6 dashes
                Orange Juice, 1/4 part
  This is prepared and served identically as is the preced
ing. It gives, however, 6 servings.
  As a canape, place sliced tomato on small circular
pieces of toast, garnish with bacon and green pepper;
grill; serve.
COSMOPOLITANS


                                CHAMPAGNE

           Champagne, to fill          Angostura Bitters, 5 drops
                                Sugar, 1 lump
             Use Champagne type glasses. 1 pint of Champagne will
          make 4 cocktails. Place sugar in each glass; saturate
 PAGE     sugar with 5 drops Angostura; pour chilled Champagne;
          serve without stirring. This cocktail is in vogue among
          the fastidious. (Each cocktail may or may not be gar
          nished with lemon peel according to taste.)
            As a canape, spread caviar on circular pieces of bread
          toasted only on the bottom; garnish with finely chopped
          egg.

                            CHUCK'S SPECIAL

                 Gin, 2 parts          Grenadine, 1/2 part
                Lemon, 1 part             Absinthe, 6 dashes
            Shake well with ice, strain into glasses, add maraschino
          cherry having frosted the rims of the glasses in advance
          with sugar; serve. The Absinthe may be omitted though
          it imparts zest and piquant flavor. The above will serve 4.
          This is a strong drink with a mild first delivery. Two
          per person make a most adequate appetizer ... but three
          or more are apt to prolong the day into a week-end.
            As a canape, fill Appetizer Shells with caviar; garnish
          with finely minced hard boiled egg; serve.

                                CLAM JUICE

            Using a 7 oz. tumbler with plenty of ice fill gen
          erously with clam juice; add 1 teaspoon tomato catsup,
          1 dash Worcestershire Sauce, juice of      lemon, 1 dash
          celery salt. An excellent eye-opener at tomorrow's break
          fast.
                              CLOVER CLUB

              Gin, 3 parts           Grenadine, 2 teaspoons
            Egg, 2 whites only            Lemon, 2 teaspoons
            Shake well with ice, strain into glasses, grate nutmeg
          over each; serve. The smoothness of this cocktail belies
          its potency. The above gives 4 servings.
                                                     COSMOPOLITANS


                       CLOVER ROYAL

  Gin, 2 parts         French Vermouth, 1 part
Grenadine, 2 teaspoons        Lemon, 2 teaspoons
               Egg, 2 yolks only
  This is prepared and served identically as.,is the pre
ceding. This gives 4 portions.                               PAGE



                          DUTCHESS

French Vermouth, 2 parts         Absinthe, 2 parts
            Italian Vermouth, 2 parts
   Shake well with ice, strain into glasses; garnish with
stuffed olive; serve. The above will serve 6.
  As a savory spread heart shapes of bread with a paste
of sardines, honed and mashed, and mixed with Chili
Sauee, lemon juice and several dashes of Tobasco; garnish
with stuffed olive.



                          GREEN CUP

Champagne (Dry), 1 cpiart      Carypton, 1/2 pint
          Angostura, 4 to 6 teaspoons
  Use large silver or pewter loving eup; pour in Carypton;
add Angostura; the champagne being well iced should
now he poured in. Serve.
  Among Eli's sons this loving cup is redolent with
memories of friendships formed at Yale, where at Morey's
again the rafters ring.


                           HARLEM

        Rye Whiskey, 2 parts          Gin, 2_parts
Sugar Syrup, 1 part                Lime Juice, 1/4 part
                      Egg, 3 whites only
  Shake well with iee, strain into glasses; serve. This
drink as the locality for which it is named, is noted for
its "hot-cha-cha." The above will serve 6.
COSMOPOLITANS


                                   IDEAL

             Gin, 2 parts        French Vermouth, 2 parts
          Grape Fruit Juice, 1-1/4 parts Chartreuse, 1/4 part
             Shake well with ice, strain into glasses, garnish with
 PAGE     filbert; serve. The above will serve 6.
             As a savory spread small rounds of bread with melted
          butter, cover with a paste of anchovie and lemon; garnish
  8       with curled anchovie, pearl onion and sprig parsley.

                               JACK ROSE

                Brandy, 4 parts       Lemon Juiee, 1 part
                            Grenadine, 1 part
            Stir well with ice, strain into glasses; serve. Applejack
          may be substituted for Brandy. The above will serve 6.


                               MANHATTAN

            Bourbon, 4 parts          Italian Vermouth, 1 part
                         Orange Bitters, 12 dashes
                       Angostura Bitters, 12 drops
            Stir well with ice, strain into glasses, add maraschino
          cherry; serve. This one appeals to feminine taste. The
          above makes 6.
            As a side-kick, cut diamond shaped pieces of bread and
          spread after toasting with smoked sturgeon; sprinkle with
          grated egg and garnish with a dash of Chili Sauce.


                           MANHATTAN, DRY

           Bourbon, 2 parts            Italian Vermouth, 1 part
          Orange Bitters, 8 dashes     Angostura Bitters, 8 drops
            This one is prepared and served exactly as is the pre
          ceding, except that a pickled hazel-nut is used as the
           flourish instead of the maraschino. The above makes 4
          portions.
                                                     COS9IOPOLITANS


                       MARTINI

   Gin, 2 parts          Italian Vermouth, 2 parts
                 Orange Bitters, 8 dashes
  Stir well with ice, strain into glasses, add olive or
pickled onion to each; twist lemon peel over each; serve.     PAGE
Two per person are considered amply appetizing.       The
above makes 4.
  As a side-kick, spread unsweetened crackers with peanut
butter, garnish with bacon; grill; serve hot.


                    3IARTINI, DRY
   Gin, 2 parts           French Vermouth, 2 parts
                 Orange Bitters, 8 dashes
  This is prepared identically as is the preceding, except
that a stuffed olive is used as the "flourish." This recipe
serves 4.


                   OLD FASHIONED

  Rye or Bourbon, 1 part        Sugar, 1 lump
              Angostura, 2 dashes
  Add sugar to 5 ounce tumbler; dash Bitters over it;
crush sugar; add 1 lump of ice; garnish with twist of
lemon peel, slice of orange, maraschino cherry; stir
briskly and add water as desired. Brandy, Rum or Gin
may be substituted for Bourbon.


                    OLD MONTEREY

  Gin, 2 parts            Italian Vermouth, 2 parts
                   Chartreuse, 2 parts
  Shake well with ice, strain into glasses, garnish with
maraschino; serve. The above serves 6.
  As a savory, roll cream cheese into small balls and roll
them in caviar placing them individually on toast squares
or crackers.
COSMOPOLITANS


                            ORANGE BLOSSOM

               Gin, 2 parts           Orange Juir.e, 2 parts
           Shake well with ice, strain into glasses; serve. (The
         Orange Silver Blossom is made by the addition of the
         whites of two eggs to the mixture, sprinkling each glass
 PAGE    with nutmeg after pouring. A sweet smooth drink it is
         naturally a favorite with the ladies.) The above serves 4.

 10                                SOURS

           All Sours are prepared according to the following, using
         5 oz. glass or tumbler.
             Lemon, Juice of 1/2              Sugar, 1 teaspoon
                                 Spirits, 1 part
           According to individual taste the following only are
         used; Rye, Bourbon, Gin, Brandy, Rum. Shake well with
         ice, strain into glass, add one slice orange and maraschino
         cherry; serve.
                                  SIDE-CAR

             Brandy, 2 parts                Cointreau, 2 parts
           Stir well with ice, strain into glasses; serve. The above
         serves 4.

                                  STINGER

            Brandy, 4 parts         Creme de Menthe, 2 parts
           Shake well with ice, strain into glasses, twist lemon
         peel over, garnish with maraschino cherry; serve. If green
         Creme de Menthe is used this is called a Tipperary. There
         is no difference in flavor. A strong, sweet drink, popular
          with the ladies. The above will serve 6.

                            WHISKEY SPECIAL

         Rye or Bourbon, 3 parts       French Vermouth, 2 parts
                          Orange Juice, 1/2 part
            Shake well with ice, strain into glasses, garnish with
         olive and sprinkle with nutmeg; serve. The above serves 6.
            As a canape serve small crisp wheaten crackers spread
         with Wine-Stilton Cheese. (To make Wine-Stilton, mix
         Stilton Cheese with good Port Wine to a thick paste;
         return to covered jar; keep in ice box.)
  Tropical Cruise Speciaus

                       APERITAL

                Cognac Brandy, 3 parts
      Aperital, 3 parts           Seltzer, 3 parts
 Shake vigorously with ice, strain into..glasses, garnish     PAGE
with thin slice of orange, slit and hung on rim of 5 oz.
glass. Before drinking one should wait until the foam
partially subsides. The above serves 6.                       11
                   BESO TROPICAL

    Rum,2 parts           Pineapple Juice, 2 parts
  Shake well with ice and strain into 5 oz. tumblers;
garnish with a small piece of pineapple; serve. The above
will serve 4.
  As a savory spread whole-wheat crackers with Roquefort
Cheese made into a paste by the addition of a little cream
and Worcestershire Sauce; garnish with strips of Ancho^e.

                      BUCCANEER

            Bacardi (White Label), 1 part
             Haytian Rum (Sartle), 1 part
                 Jamaica Rixm, 1 part
  Stir lightly without ice, imbibe with eyes closed and if
you survive, your malaria has departed. The above serves 3.
 As an appetizer nibble hardtack spread with "guaca-
mole," which is alligator pear, crushed and seasoned with
minced garlic and Tobasco Sauce to taste.

                     CHURUBUSCO

     Rum, 8 parts         Pineapple Juice, 8 parts
Orange Juice, 1/2 part              Grenadine, 1 part
                  Egg, 4 whites only
   Beat whites of egg separately and lightly. Shake all
ingredients together with ice, including whites of egg.
Strain to champagne type glasses (4 oz.) ; garnish with
maraschino cherry, and piece of pineapple pierced with a
toothpick. The above will serve 8.
TROPICAL CRUISE SPECIALS


                                CUBA LIBRE

                Rum, 2 parts              Coca Cola, 2 parts
            Stir with ice, strain into 5 oz. tumblers; serve. This is
          the favorite drink of the "guajiro" or Cuban peasant. The
 PAGE     above will serve 4.


 12                               DAIQUIRI

          Bacardi (White Label), 4 parts       Lime Juice, 2 parts
                               Sugar, 1/2 part
            Sbake well with ice, garnish with pickled onion; serve.
          This famous cocktail originated with American Soldiers
          in the War with Spain. Landing through the surf near
          the village of Daiquiri, they made use of discarded sugar
          kettles, picked their own limes in the neighborhood and
          mixed them with native rum and sugar. Their Alger beef
          and raw onion rations, washed down with this delectable
           potation, made a pleasant prelude to tbe next day's fight
          ing. This recipe serves 6.
            The ideal canape with this drink is a tiny hard cracker
          spread with crushed avocado and minced onion, garnished
          with pimento.

                                 DON PEPE

               Riun, 2 parts            Lime Juice, 2 parts
                             Grenadine, 1 part
            Pour into six glasses, % part each of green Creme de
          Menthe. Now shake the other materials together with ice;
          strain carefully into glasses so as not to disturb Creme
          de Mentbe; garnish with mint leaf; serve. The cocktail
          should be taken at one swallow or sipped in such a way
          that the Creme de Menthe acts as a follow through. It
          is the usual choice of the Hacendado, the plantation
          owner. This is a recipe for a strong potion that will
          serve 6.
            Don Pepe serves, on festive occasions, tender center
          celery stalks stuffed with caviar and sprinkled with
          paprika chilled thoroughly before serving.
                                       TROPICAL CRUISE SPECIALS


                        ESCARGOT

       Cognac Brandy, 1 part       Gin, 1 part
                Orange Juice, 1 part
   Stir ivith ice, strain into 5 oz. glasses until each is half
full, garnish with slice of orange; fill with seltzer; serve.     PAGE
The above will serve 3.
  As a savory, serve snails in oil on wholewheat crackers.
                                                                  13
                      HAVANA PALM

    Rtun, 4 parts           Italian Vermouth, 2 parts
  Shake well with ice, strain into glasses, twist orange peel
over; serve. The above gives 6 portions.
  As a side-kick, wrap pickled onion with anchovie filet;
secure with toothpick; serve.


                         HAWAIIAN

    Gin, 2 parts       Pineapple Juice, 2 parts
Orange Bitters, 4 dashes        Egg, 2 whites only
  Shake well with ice, strain into glasses, garnish with
maraschino cherry and piece of pineapple pierced with
toothpick; serve. The above serves 4.
  As a canape, center shrimps on small soda crackers,
sprinkle with lemon and fill center with Chili Sauce.

                        KING'S PEG

Champagne, 1 pint           Cognac, 2 Champagne glasses
  The Champagne should be well iced. Pour cognac into
6 Champagne-type glasses until each is 1/3 full. Fill with
Champagne. Garnish with a twist of lemon peel; serve.
A popular number aboard ship with the sweet girl gradu
ate, and a splendid antidote for mal-de-mer.
   As a savory, fresh caviar on thin oblongs of toast;'
sprinkle with lemon and garnish with grated egg.
TROPICAL, CRUISE SPECIALS


                                     LUPITA

           Tequila or Mezcal, 4 parts       Lime Juice, 2 teaspoons
                           Grenadine, 2 teaspoons
             Stir gently with ice, strain into glasses; serve. Two of
           these will answer "a maiden's prayer." This recipe makes
 PAGE      4 cocktails.
             As a "hot-cha," use the tiny spiced cocktail sausage,
 14        wrap with bacon; secure with toothpick; grill until crisp;
           serve hot.
                                  EL TORERO

            Cognac Brandy, 2 parts          French Vermouth, 2 parts
                             Port Wine, 4 teaspoons
              Stir with ice, strain into glasses and as a flourish use a
           filbert; serve. This drink was evolved in the old days
           of the Cafe Ingles of Mexico City. Here the heroes of
           the bull-ring and their fans gathered to discuss their
           most graceful passes, and after many passes over the bar
            usually ended in making vicious passes with the dagger.
           The above will serve 4.

                             PLANTER'S PUNCH
                             (use 7 oz. tumbler)
           Rum,(Jamaica), 8 parts Sugar Syrup, 4 teaspoons
           Lime Juice, 2 teaspoons        Pineapple Juice, 6 parts
            Using a separate vessel stir mixture together; now pour
           into the required number of glasses (4) full cracked ice,
           equally; stir; fill with charged water; garnish with orange,
           fresh pineapple or both. A favorite drink among the
           Jamaica planters. It makes a splendid thirst quencher on
           sultry days and hot nights. The above serves 4.

                                 PRESIDENTE

              Bacardi, 2 parts        Italian Vermouth, 2 parts
           French Vermouth, 2 parts             Curacoa, 12 dashes
                        Angostura Bitters, 12 drops
             Shake well with ice, strain into glasses, garnish with a
           maraschino; serve. This gives 6 servings.
             As a side-kick, fill celery stalks with a paste made of
           Roquefort Cheese, cream and chopped pimento.
                                    TROPICAL CRUISE SPECIALS


                 RUM ANTIQUARIAN

   Rum, 4 parts        Angostura Bitters, 8 drops
Orange Bitters, 8 dashes   Lemon Juice, 2 teaspoons
             Sugar Syrup, 1 teaspoon
  Stir well with ice, strain into glasses, add twist lemon   PAGE
peel, garnish with maraschino cherry; serve. This will
serve 4.

                        RUM-GIN                              15
          Rum, 2 parts           Gin, 2 parts
              Lemon Juice, 2 teaspoons
  Shake well with ice, strain into glasses, garnish with
a pickled onion; serve. This will make 4 cocktails.
  As a savory spread thin sliced ham with catsup and
English mustard to taste; cover with thin slieed Swiss
cheese; cut into small squares; place on crackers; grill;
garnish with paprika; serve hot.

                  RUM GROG (HOT)

Rum (heavy), 1 quart               Strong Tea, 1 quart
    Hot Water, 1 quart            Sugar, 1/2 pound
  Dissolve sugar in water, add other ingredients and pour
into punch bowl. Add large lump of ice. Stir until
chilled; serve in 4 oz. punch cups with diced pineapple
and dash of nutmeg. This gives approximately 30 full
servings.

                    RUM SWIZZLE

        (use pitcher and 5 oz. tumblers)
   Rum (light), 8 parts     Sugar, 8 teaspoons
Angostura Bitters, 4 teaspoons      Shaved Ice, 8 parts
  Mix the Rum, Sugar and Bitters in a separate vessel.
Next place shaved ice in pitcher; now pour in the mixture.
Using the swizzle stick, rotate handle between palms
vigorously until ice has melted. Pour quickly into glasses
so that each will have a bead of foam. This recipe will
serve 8. Note that a swizzle should only be prepared
TROPICAL CRUISE SPECIALS


           for the number of people present and only one round
           should be prepared at a time.
             The Rum Swizzle originated in Demerara which is British
           Guiana; its peculiarity is that it should never be sipped,
           but quaffed immediately. A proper Swizzle Stick is a
 PAGE      pealed, five branch orange stick. (However an egg-beater
           can be substituted for it.)

 16                               GIN SWIZZLE
                     (use pitcher and 5 oz. tumblers)
              Old Tom Gin, 8 parts          Sugar, 8 teaspoons
           Angostura Bitters, 4 teaspoons     Shaved ice, 8 parts
             This is prepared and served identically as the preeed-
          ing. It will serve 8.

                              GREEN SWIZZLE
                     (use pitcher and 5 oz. tumblers)
              Carypton, 8 parts           Shaved Ice, 8 parts
                           Angostura, 4 teaspoons
            Place ice in pitcher; add Angostura; now pour in
          Carypton; using the swizzle stick, swizzle the contents of
          the pitcher until ice is melted and contents frothy. Serve
          immediately. (A variation of this recipe, preferred by
          some, is to use 4 parts French Vermouth and 4 parts only
          Carypton with the above parts shaved ice and Angostura.)

                            TWINKLE TWINKLE

               Cognac Brandy, 1 part              Rum, 1 part
                   Egg, 2 whole              Milk, 1 part
             Shake well with ice, strain into glasses, sprinkle with
           nutmeg; serve. A heavenly concoction this, and one that
           banishes care and strife. In the proportions given it will
           serve 4.

                               WHISKEY CANA
           Whiskey Cana, 2 parts         Italian Vermouth, 2 parts
               Lemon Juice, 1/2 part          Sugar, 2 teaspoons
             Stii gently with ice, strain into glasses; serve. Whiskey
           Cana is made from the juice of the Sugar Cane and is a
           favorite drink of the Cauchos of the Pampas.
                    Dixie Gems

                ALEXANDER COCKTAIL
     Gin, 2 parts           Creme de Cacoa, 1 part
                Sweet Cream, 1 part
  Shake well with ice, strain into glasses; serve. The
above will serve 4.
                                                              PAGE


   Gin, 2 parts
               ALEXANDRINA COCKTAIL
                       Creme de Menthe, 2 parts
                                                              17
               Sweet Cream, 2 parts
  Shake well with ice and strain into glasses; serve.
Ladies BEWARE ... this is a heady drink. As above to
serve 6.

                       APPLE TODDY
       Apples, 6 Red           Sugar, 1/4 pound
     Water, 4 ozs.              Butter, 2 teaspoons
    Cinnamon, 1 teaspoon             W liiskey, 1 pint
  Core and bake apples well, leaving skins on; boil
water, butter, sugar and cinnamon together until liquid;
as mixture comes to a boil add whiskey; the apples being
well baked and bot place in dessert glasses and add the
hot whiskey mixture to each. Serve with spoons.

                      CORAL COCKTAIL
Bacardi, 4 parts      Grape Fruit Juice, 3 teaspoons
            Apricot Cordial, 3 teaspoons
               Lemon Juiee, 1 teaspoon
  Shake well with ice, strain into glasses; serve. The
above will serve 4.

                  KENTUCKY EGG NOG
   Rye or Bourbon, 1 quart                 Eggs, 2 doz.
        Sugar, 2 pounds              Cream, 1 pint
  Separate the yolks from the whites; beat yolks until
very light; beat whites 'till stiff; now add sugar to yolks
and beat adding whiskey gradually; "fold-in" cream hav
ing whipped it in advance. Serve in 7 oz. tumblers .with
spoon. Nutmeg should be provided on the side for in
dividual use. The above serves 12 portions.
DIXIE GEMS


                                    3IINT JULEP

              Rye or Bourbon, 2 parts                 Sugar, 2 lumps
                                Fresh Mint Sprigs
                Dry 7 oz. tumbler thoroughly; stand on folded napkin
             or blotting paper to insulate; fill glass with shaved ice;
 PAGE         place mint sprigs on top; dissolve sugar separately in a
             little water and add whiskey to it; when thoroughly mixed
             pour over mint sprigs and ice in glass. DO NOT STIR.
 18          After an interval the glass will frost.
                Never crush the mint sprigs against the glass in prepar
             ing, as the above is the true Southern Mint Julep
                             PALM BEACH SPECIAL

                  Gin, 4 parts          Italian Vermouth, 1 part
                             Grape Fruit Juice, 1 part
               Shake well with ice, strain into glasses, garnish with a
             stuffed olive; serve. The above will serve 6.
               As a canape, roll small stuffed olives in paste of cream
             cheese and anchovie; place on small crackers and garnish
             generously with caviar.
                                 RAMOS GIN FIZZ

                   Gin, 3 oz.           Lemon Juice,1/2 teaspoon
                Egg, 1/2 white             Sugar, 1/2 teaspoon
                 Cream,1 oz.             Orange Water, 3 dashes
               Shake well with ice, strain into 7 oz. tumbler and fill
             with charged water; serve immediately. Famous indeed, it
             originated at the Stagg Bar in New Orleans.
                                      SAZERAC

                  Rye, 3 parts          Sugar Syrup, 1 teaspoon
             Peychaud Bitters, 8 dashes             Absinthe, 4 dashes
               Stir well with ice, strain into chilled glasses, having wet
             each with a twirl of Absinthe and discarded excess; add
             slice lemon peel; serve. This favorite originated in the
             Cafe Sazerac of New Orleans. The above gives 4 portions.
                As a savory, peel and split shrimps; dip in a mixture
             2 tablespoons flour and 1 beaten egg; fry in deep fat;
             salt to taste and lay on brown paper to absorb grease;
             pierce with toothpick; serve hot.
            Holiday Cheer

             BURNED BRANDY (HOT)

     Brandy, 1 meas.              Sugar, 2 lumps
  Place sugar in small saucer, pour Brandy over it and
set afire; stir while burning; as soon as sugar is entirely   PAGE
melted serve in whiskey glass with spoon.

              BUTTERED RUM (HOT)                              19
       Rum, 1 part             Butter, size of pea
     Spice, to taste            Hot Water, to fill
              Sugar Syrup, 1/2 teaspoon
  Using a 7 oz. highball glass, stir rum and sugar syrup
with hot water; stir in butter; add spice to taste and
serve with spoon in glass. An excellent way to serve at
home is to have the materials assembled on a tray . • •
the hot water in the kettle on the hearth ... permitting
each and every one to mix their own.

             CHRISTMAS EVE PUNCH

      Rum, 1 quart            Grenadine, 1/2 pint
Grape Fruit Juice, 1/2 pint          Ginger Ale, 4 pints
 Stir well in punch bowl with a large lump of ice; garnish
with maraschino cherries, sliced orange and lemon. The
above will give over 16 seven ounce glasses.
   The Night Before Christmas while decorating the Tree
and after, this punch adds cheer to the crackling of the
fire upon the hearth and the expectations of the morrow.
                       EGG NOG

         Brandy, 1 quart            Rum, 6 ozs.
           Curacoa, 4 ozs.           Eggs, 12
        Sugar, 1 pound             Milk, 3 quarts
   Separate eggs and beat whites and yolks separately;
stir sugar into beaten yolks; pour into punch bowl; add
Brandy, Rum, Curacoa in order named; stir well; use
beaten whites as a float. As garnish, fancy colored granu
lated sugar may be dusted over surface. Serve in 4 oz.
HOLIDAY CHEER


         punch glasses. Nutmeg should be provided, on the side,
         for individual use. The above will give approximately
         40 servings.
            It is the practice in many places to have a never empty
          bowl of this punch upon the dining room table New
 PAGE    Year's Day, to welcome those who call.

                                GROG (HOT)
 20      Rum, 2 oz. meas.             Lemon Juice, 1/2 teaspoon
         Sugar Syrup, 1/2 teaspoon              Hot Water, to fiU
           Stir materials in 7 oz. glass, add hot water to fill, twist
         lemon peel over; serve with spoon.

                           MULLED WINE (HOT)
            Choice of Wines, 1 quart         Hot Water, to fiU
                       Lemon Juice, 4 teaspoons
            Sugar Syrup, 8 teaspoons           Verbena, 1 leaf
           Heat wine to boiling point, add all except water, stir
         thoroughly, pour into 7 oz. glasses equally, fill with hot
         water and serve with a spoon. The above gives 8 portions.

                          NOEL CHAMPAGNE CUP

          Powdered Sugar, 1/2 pound           Champagne, 2 quarts
             Charged Water, 1 quart              Brandy, 4 ozs.
         Maraschino Syrup, 4 ozs.                Curacoa, 4 ozs.
           Mix well in punch bowl embedded in cracked ice;
         garnisb with sliced fruits in season. The above will give
         30 servings in 4 oz. punch cups.
           A splendid punch for any occasion between Christmas
         Eve and Twelfth Night.

                            SPICED RUM (HOT)
          Rum, 1-1/2 parts         Sugar Syrup, 1/2 teaspoon
            Allspice, 1/2 teaspoon       Butter, size of pea
                             Hot Water, to fill
            Using a highball glass, stir together and add hot water
         to fill, dusting Allspice over and adding 1/2 slice of lemon;
         serve with spoon in the glass.
                                                     HOLIDAY CHEER


                  TODDIES (HOT)

  Using 7 oz. glass dissolve 1 lump of sugar in 1 measure
of spirits; fill with hot water; serve with a spoon. All
toddies (hot) are made the same way whether Rye, Bour
bon or Scotch is used.
                                                              PAGE

              TOM AND JERRY (HOT)                             21
       Brandy, 4 parts       Rum, 4 dashes
     Butter, 4 teaspoons      Hot Milk, to fill
                  Nutmeg, to taste
  Prepare batter by first separating yolk and white of 1
egg, beating each separately; place them together and
stir in powdered sugar until a thick stringy batter is
formed; heat 4 small earthen mugs in hot water; add one
(1) teaspoon batter to each; stir in Brandy; stirring well,
fill with hot milk; add dash of Rum to each; sprinkle with
Nutmeg; serve with spoons. This serves 4.


         TWELFTH NIGHT PUNCH (HOT)

Hot Green Tea, 1 pint    Lemon Juice, 4 teaspoons
  Brandy, 1/2 pint     Sugar Syrup, 4 teaspoons
Jamaica Rum, 1/2 pint         Eggs, 2 whites only
                  Curacoa, 4 ozs.
   Mix the sugar syrup with the Green Tea; heat Brandy,
Rum and Curacoa, mixing together in the order named;
add the two mixtures to each other and stir; now add
lemon juice; using 7 oz. tumblers fill each; garnish with
slice of lemon apiece and the whites of the eggs beaten
to a froth. The above will serve 4.
  The Twelfth Night after Christmas, that of Janu
ary 6th, is the end of the Yule-tide. On it, many make
it the custom, both here and in Merrie England, to burn
the Holley Wreaths and Christmas Greens before mid-night
toasting the Spirit of Christmas Past and The Spirit of
Christmas-Yet-To-Come.
PAGE
                          Cellabette
22          Whiskies              Rums                 Gins
            Bourbon              Bacardi               Dry
            Rye                  Jamaica               Sloe
            Scotch


           Vermouths             Bitters             Syrups
            French             Angostura            Grenadine
            Italian            Orange                 Sugar

             Liqueurs                          Garnishes
            Benedictine                    Maraschino Cherries
            Brandy                               Olives
            Cointreau                        Pickled Onions
            Curacoa
            Creme de Menthe




                          Glasses and Tumblers

         For the mixing of the drinks for which recipes are
       given in this volume, the following capacities are listed:
       Cocktail              2V2 oz.   Sour                    5 oz.
       Old Fashioned           5 oz.   Highball                7 oz.
       Toddy                   7 oz.   Milk Punch          10-12 oz.
       Fizz                    7 oz.   Creme de Menthe       2-3 oz.
         A pony is 1 oz; a jigger 2 ozs.; a bar-spoon % teaspoon.
The Dutchess Entertains


All cocktails are best served in longstem crystal or silver
   . cocktail glasses. An effective way and one that.adds
a touch of the unusual in serving them is to sugar their      PAGE
rims. This is done hy first rubbing the rim of the glass
with a slice of lemon or orange, then dipping the rim into
a saucer in which there is a shallow layer of granulated
                                                              23
sugar. Do this well in advance to allow the frosting to dry
and harden. In pouring the cocktail care should he taken
not to wet the frosting.

                   The "nourish"
  The type of cocktail determines the type of "flourish"
which embellishes it; thus a Manhattan demands a mara
schino cherry, while the Martini clamors for the olive, and
so on, as indicated in each recipe. Where none is men
tioned none is used. However in a pinch the cocktail
which calls for a "flourish" may he served without it—in
the main detracting nothing from its potency, though
perhaps something of its flavor.

                  Cocktail Napkins
   Small colorful napkins or those with embroidered or
lace edges not only are indispensable to the discriminat
ing hostess but also add a note of charm to what so often
in the past has proven an orgy, and which under the new
deal will no doubt be taken seriously.

                        Canapes
  "Canapes," pronounced can-a-pay, are an addition to
every occasion at which a mixed group of four or more
serious drinkers are gathered together, as they add zest
and glamour to that indefinable urge to outdo Bacchus,
THE DETCHESS ElVTERTAll^S


           first and most eminent Professor of Alcohology. "Canapes"
           should he a dainty mouthful, not over two inches in their
           largest dimension and preferably an inch and a half. These
           may be served in various shapes: hearts, diamonds, squares,
           and may be assorted as to spread and garnish, or of one
 PAGE
           sort. Many varieties are knoivn, but to the hostess with
           an instinct for selection the most popular are those in
 24        which a salty flavor predominates.


                                  Wines

             As to the wines to be served with dinner, the follow
           ing, while usual at The Waldorf prior to 1919, permit
            deviations.

            Course                 Wine                    Glass
            Oysters       White Burgundy (Dry)         4oz.—^yellow
            Soup                Sherry                 2 oz.—white
            Fish           Moselle or Rhine            4oz.—emerald
            Entree                Claret               4oz.—ruby
            Roast              Champagne               4oz.—white
            Game            Burgundy (Red)           3-4 oz.—ruby ■
            Desert               Port                  3 oz.—white
            Cheese               Port                  3 oz.—white


                                 Liqueurs
              With the demi-tasse the Liqueurs, which of course in
            clude Brandy, make their appearance. Those who like
            their affects immediate make a practice of pouring their
            Brandy into their demi-tasse, while those who revel in
            quibs and whimsies, providing they take Brandy, use the
           inhaling glass, from which the pungent fumes gently
           waft their aroma, importing a delightful zest to every
           sip. Liqueur glasses which include those for Cordials and
           Brandy are, as is the inhaling glass, long stem. Their
           content is one ounce. In serving Brandy in the inhaling
           glass the portion is also one ounce.
         COU^TTRY CI.YB ECHOES

                      GIN DAISY

  Use 7 oz. tumbler; add juice 1/2 lemon; 1/2 teaspoon
powered sugar; 2 oz. measure Dry Gin; 6 dashes Grena
dine; cracked ice generously. Fill with charged water;        PAGE
decorate with sprigs green mint; garnish with fresh fruits
in season and maraschino cherry.

                    WHISKEY DAISY
                                                              25
  Use 5 oz. tumbler; add juice 1/2 lemon; 2 oz. measure
Bourbon or Rye; 1/2 teaspoon Sugar Syrup; fill 1/3 full
finely cracked ice; stir vigorously; fill with charged
water.


                     BRANDY FIZZ

Brandy, 1-1/2 parts           Lemon Juice, 1 teaspoon
    Rum, 1 dash           Sugar Syrup, 1 teaspoon
  Shake well with ice, strain into 7 oz. tumbler; fill with
charged water and serve immediately.

                        GIN FIZZ

     Gin, 3 oz. meas.             Juice 1/2 Lemon
             Powdered Sugar, 1 teaspoon
  Shake well with ice, strain into 7 oz. tumbler, fill with
charged water. Adding 2 dashes Cointreau gives zest.

                    GIN FIZZ, GOLDEN
     Gin, 6 parts           Lemon Juice, 1/3 part
Sugar Syrup, 1/3 part                       4 yolks only
  Shake well with ice, strain into 4 (7 oz.) tumblers
equally, fill with charged water and serve immediately.

                    GIN FIZZ, SILVER
  Follow the same recipe and procedure in preparation as
in the mixing of the preceding Golden Gin Fizz EXCEPT
that the whites only of 4 eggs are used.
COUNTRY CLUB ECHOES


                               SLGE-GIN FIZZ

           Sloe-Gin, 2 parts       Angostura Bitters, 1 dash
                        Lemon Juice, I teaspoon
             Shake well with ice, strain into 7 oz. tumhler, fill with
           charged water and serve immediately.
 PAGE
                                 RUM FIZZ

 26          Riun, 1-1/2 parts
           Benedictine, 2 dashes
                                      Lemon Juice, 1 teaspoon
                                         Sugar Syrup, 1 teaspoon
            Shake well with ice, strain into 7 oz. tumbler, fill with
          charged water and serve immediately.

                                 HIGHBALLS

            All Highballs are made as follows:
            Use 7 oz. tumbler; add 1 lump of ice; 1 measure of
          any spirit or wine desired; fill glass with charged water.
          If Ginger Ale is used instead of charged water it should
          only be with Gin, Rye and Bourbon.

                           HIGHLAND COOLER

            Add 1 lump of ice to long tumbler (9 to 10 oz.) and
          pour in one 3 oz. measure Scotch Whiskey; add 2 dashes
          Angostura, the juice of one half lemon and one teaspoon
          powdered sugar. Stir merrily and fill with ginger-ale.

                               TOM COLLINS

            Pour one 3 oz. measure Dry Gin into shaker with ice;
          add juice one half lemon, one teaspoon powdered sugar;
          shake well and strain into 9 to 10 oz. tumbler containing
          one lump of ice. Fill with charged water.

                                  RICKEYS

            The majority of Rickeys are mixed as follows:
            Use 7 oz. tumbler; juice of 1/2 lime or 1/4 lemon;
          1 lump of ice; 1 measure of any spirit; fill with charged
          water; garnish with slice of lemon or lime.
                                          COUNTRY CLUB ECHOES


                  BRANDY PUNCH

   Brandy, 3 pints       Jamaica Rum, 1/4 pint
     Sugar, 1 pound        Lemon, Juice of 3
               Curacoa, I oz. meas.
Raspberry Syrup, 2 oz. meas.             Water, 2 _{iuarts
  Mix materials together vigorously in punch bowl; add        PAGE
large piece of ice, two oranges sliced, one half pineapple
and other fruits in season; serve in 4 oz. punch glasses.
The above will serve 10 people, two to three servings each.   27
            CHAMPAGNE CLUB PUNCH
    Champagne, 2 quarts        Brandy, 1 quart
     Curacoa, 6 ozs.     Orange Bitters, 1 oz.
                 Lemons, Juice 10
   Sugar, 1/2 pound          Charged Water, 1 quart
   In a punch bowl stir all ingredients, EXCEPT Cham
 pagne and charged water, together with a large lump of
ice. Add Champagne and charged water; stir gently;
garnish with sliced orange; serve in punch glasses (4 oz.).
The above will serve 32 portions.


                   CLARET PUNCH

        Claret, 3 quarts        Curacoa, 2 ozs.
Lemons, Juice 8           Powdered Sugar, 1/2 pound
               Charged Water, 2 quarts
   Mix well in punch bowl embedded in cracked ice; add
fruits in season sliced and diced. The above will give
40 four ounce glasses.


               FISH HOUSE PUNCH
   Brandy, 1/2 pint         Peach Brandy, 1/4 pint
Jamaica Rum,1/4 pint        Powdered Sugar, 1/2 pound
    Lemons, Juice 6            Charged Water, 3 pints
  Mix materials together vigorously in punch bowl; add
large piece of ice; serve in 4 oz. punch glasses. The above
will serve 10 people 2 portions each.
COUATRY CLUB ECHOES


                               MILK PUNCH

                       Whiskey or Rum, 4 ozs.
                Sugar, 2 teaspoons       Milk, 6 ozs.
            Shake well with ice, strain into long tumbler (12 to 14
          oz.), grate nutmeg over; serve with Arrowroot Biscuit or
 PAGE     other slightly sweetened cracker.


 28                          WHISKEY PUNCH

             Rye or Bourbon, 1 pint      Rum,8 dashes
             Curacoa, 8 dashes      Lemons, Juice of 4
          Sugar Syrup, 2 ozs.       Charged Water, 1 quart
            Mix materials together in punch howl and add large
          piece of ice; garnish with sliced lemon and orange. The
          above will serve 16 four ounce portions.

                   YE OLDE TAVERN PUNCH (HOT)
          Burgundy, 1 quart         Sugar Syrup, 2 teaspoons
                          Allspice, to taste
            Heat Burgundy with sugar syrup until hot; pour into
          Tom and Jerry Mugs which have been heated in hot
          water before hand; dust with Allspice; serve. This gives
          4 servings.


                             PRAIRIE OYSTER

             Using 7 oz. tumbler, carefully separate the yolk of 1
           egg; add 2 dashes of vinegar; 1 teaspoon Worcestershire
           Sauce; 1 teaspoon Tomato Catsup; 1 dash pepper on top.
           Care should be taken not to break the yolk in preparing
          this "pick-me-up." Drink at one swallow.

                               WARD EIGHT

           Rye or Bourbon, 2 parts          Lemon Juice, 1 part
             Orange Juice, 1 part       Grenadine, 2 teaspoons
            Shake well with ice, strain into glasses; serve. This
          recipe serves 4.
                          INDEX
                              Cocktails
Absinthe Special                5      Jack Rose                 8
Alexander                      17      Kentucky Egg Nog          17
Alexandrina                    17      King's Peg                13
Aperital                       II      Lupita
Apple Toddy                    17      Manhattan                 8
Bacardi Grenadine               5      Manhattan, Dry            8
Beso Tropical                  11      Martini -x.               9
Bronx                           5      Martini, Dry              9
Bronx Special                   5      El Torero                 14
Buccaneer                      11      Old Fashioned             9
Chuck's Special                 6      Old Monterey               9
Champagne                       6      Orange Blossom            10
Churubusco                     11      Orange Blossom (Silver)   10
Clam Juice                      6      Palm Beach Special        18
Clover Club                     6      Prairie Oyster            28
Clover Royal                    7      Presidente                14
Coral                          17      Rum Antiquarian           15
Cuba Libre                     12      Rum-Gin                   IS
Daiquirii                      12      Sazerac                   18
Don Pepe                       12      Side-Car                  10
Dutchess                        7      Stinger                   10
Escargot                       13      Swizzle-Rum               IS
Green Cup                       7      Swizzle-Gin               16
Harlem                          7      Swizzle Green             16
Havana Palm                    13      Twinkle-Twinkle           16
Plawaiian                      13      Ward-Eight                28
Ideal                           8,     Whiskey Cana              16
                     Whiskey Special               10

                                Daisies
Gin Daisy                      25      Whiskey Daisy             25
                                 Fizzes
Gin Fiz                        25      Brandy Fizz               25
Gin Fizz, Golden               25      Ramos Gin Fizz            18
Gin Fizz, Silver               25      Rum Fizz                  26
                     Sloe-Gin Fizz                 26

                               Punches
Brandy                         27      Fish House                27
Christmas Eve                  19      Milk                      28
Champagne Club                 27      Noel Champagne Cup        20
Claret                         27      Planters                  14
Egg Nog                        19      Twelfth Night (Hot)       21
Ye Olde Tavern (Hot)           28      Whiskey                   28
                    Rum-Grog (Hot)                 15

                           Mlsccllaneons
Burned Brandy (Hot)            19      Mulled Wine (Hot)         20
Buttered Rum (Hot)             1?      Rickeys                   26
Grog (Hot)                     20      Toddies (Hot)             21
Highballs                      26      Tom Collins               26
Highland Cooler               26      Tom and Jerry (Hot)        21
Mint Julep                    18      Sours                      10
                     Spiced Rum (Hot)           20
m
                                                                             '* •■

                                                                                              J-
    S**r
                                                                                               ')■'
                                                                                             , /•




                   i.-'i                . /- r
                                                            -' :•* -



                                    -H-S; ■ .-..•^■r''.v--                            ■■.




                                                                li >»■•■ ■
                                                                        >-
           t •'.    _ ?/• '   ^'»        "•^i I r* *-   -

           ■:.<>v • ■                   -rfSj-w- ■ j.*




                                                                       I"',;, 41' / ,-
                                                                                 ■ y. ■ '■
