     The
Home Bartender
-~   -   ---   -   - -   -   -   -   ....
}   '   -
    I




/
                            The

                   HOME BARTENDER


         A Book with a Wealth of Information.



                     Over 400 Recipes



                      Price 50 Cents




  How to prepare· and mix all popular American Alcoholic
Drinks commonly served according to the Accurate and
Standard Methods used by Skilled and Experienced Bar-
tenders throughout tlle U. S. A. previous to the· ena ctment
of the Prohibition Law.
  Solomon once said as follows : 'Th at win e t aken in
n oderation gave strength to the mind, joy to t he heart,
and good health to the body.
        Copyrighted

            1933


            By
•
    JOHN F. DRISCOLL


    Author and Publisher




        Chicago, Ill.




          -3-
  The Author of this book, J. F. Driscoll, an old timer, is
wE.U experienced and versed in his profession.     He   has
spent O·Ver twenty years in the U. S. A. and Old Mexico,
as bartendE.T, Buffet Bar, Oyster Bar, Sandwich Bar Man,
a~d also as Waiter.   Has worked all these stations, form-
erly employed at Jacks, Murrays, Churchills, New .York
City, also at the Casino and Monte Carlo, Tia Juana Old
Mexico, and other places that c.ater to the Elite and those
desiring the best. He therefore• knows and understands the
wishes and complete desires of the American Public, those
who frequent Alcoholic and Non-alcoholic drinking and
dining emporiums, places that cater to the better class.
It contains complete and useful information desirable in
the servicing and mixing of all alcoholic beverages, for
Bartenders, Proprietors, Managers of Bars, Hotels, Clubs,
Drinking Emporiums, Cafes, and last but not least, the
home owner. All formulas and recipes an.' up-to-date, and
arranged in simple and masterly fashion satisfying to all
concerned. In conclusion it covers the field for those who
enjoy good drinking as of old.       I therefore hope this
book agrees with your heartiest and most considerate ap-
proval. Thanking you,

                     J. F. DRISCOLL

                       Chicago, Ill.




                         -4-
                           BEER
  Beer should be kept at a temperature of 45 to 50 dE.~
grees. Keep kegs in ice box or cool cellar
  Beer always appears foamy, a good amber color and
cool when drawn at 45 to 50 degrees.
  Bec't too cold is dead and bat. When biof or warm it bas
a varied taste.
  Beer like any other alcoboli'c beverage must bE.· properly
aged to be good.

                     BOTTLED BEER
   Beer in bottles should be kept in cool dark plac.e away
from all swiligbt. NE.'Ver frappe beer. Tilt glass when
pouring from bottle, then gradually straighten glass till
filled.

                         ALE
  Ale is made from malt ferments with bops added, and a
beer of extremely high alcoholic content.

                          PORTER
  P-Prter is a dark beer made from bro'W!nE.'<l. malt and high-
ly rich in Saccharine, also contains about 5% alcohol.

                           STOUT
  Stout is a dark beer also heavy and stronger than
Porter. It is extensively brewed in England and Irdand.
Its alcoholic contents l~ ounces to one pint of Stout.
  Various size beer glasses and income of a 31 gallon keg
of bE.ler at 5, 10 and 15 cents per glass.

               MULLED BEER (ENGLISH)
  Fill pitcher with beer. Then heat Poker. Heat over
red hot fire a few minutes. Then remove' from heat in-
stantly and plunge into beer in pitcher. Serve.
            ALE OR BEER PUNCH (English)
  Put into bowl one quart ofl Ale or beer, one wine glass
full of Sherry Wine, glass full of Brandy. A tablespoon
of powdered sugar, the peel and juice of one lemon, strain
juice, a little grated nutmeg and a piece of ice in bowl,
mix and stir. Serve.

         BEER OR ALE FLIP PUNCH (English)
   Three pints of Ale, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 blade of Mace,
a clove, and a small piE.'ce of butter in a sauce pan and
bring to a boil. Beat; white of one egg and yolks of two
and mix with them a tablespoon of cold beer or ale. Mix
all together thoroughly and rapidly to froth and serve
Wal'lll.

           ALE OR BEER SANGAREE (English)
   Put i:nto mixer, half pint of boiling hot ale' or beer, 3
jiggers of shEny and 2 barspoons powdered sugar, the peel
and juice of one lemon, a little grated nutmeg, sE-rve in
Tom and ] erry mugs.
  Note:-By serving with ice it may be used as a summer
drink.
                NIGHT CAP (English)
   Simmer half a pint of alE' and when on the boiling point
pour it out. Grate ~5th of a nutmeg over it and add a
teaspo01Dful of moist sugar and two tablespoonsful of
brandy. Drink the night .c ap the last thing before retiring.
         BARN YARD COCKTAIL (AMERICAN)
  Glass of beer, raw egg top, serve• with salt or Wor-
cestershire sauce'.
                HALF AND HALF (ENGLISH)
   Fill glass :i.2 full Stout, other ~2 Beer or else, :i.2 full of
ale other :i.2 bE.'er or else ~2 full of Ba~s ale ot!'er :i.2 Stout,
and serve with fish and chips. (Broil fish with butter or
olive oil, season, serve with French fried potatoes and a
slice of lemon. This drink with above dish is e'Xtremely
popular throuzhout England.

                             -6-
                  IMPORTED WINES
                    CHAMPAGNE
  Champagne is made in, France and is known as the king
of wines. It is produced in the province of Champagne
and is bottled before the fermmtation is over, the car-
bonic gas is then retained in the wine, and what is called
"effervessing". Wine is then produced.

                    BURGUNDY WINE
   Burgundy wine is produced at Beaune Nuits. Next to
Champagne is considered best. It comes in red or· white
still, or sparkling (like champagne).

                     PORT WINE
  Port wine comes from Portugal and is .known there as
Vinho de Porto.

                   SHERRY WINES
  Sherry wine originat.ed in Montilla, Spain.

                  MADEIRA WINES
  These wines are produced on the island of Madeira in
Portugal from muscat grapes.

                       CLARETS
  Clarets are produced in Bordeaux, France, from grapes
produced on a river below Bordeaux.

            RHINE AND MOSELLE WINES
 These wines are produce.Id along the Rhine River, and
Moselle Districts in Germany.

                 SAUTERNE WINE
 Sauterne wine is produced at Vineyards located at
Yquem in France.

                         -7-
                      U. S. A. WINES
  California Wines are considered best made in U. S. A. a
circumstance due to the fact that European vines are
grown and cultivate.id in California.
  ~he. other states producing wine grow the indigenous
vanetie~ of grapes. Muscatel, Tokay, Port, Riesling and
other wmes are made in California.


                      WINE RECIPES

                    CHAMPAGNE WINE
   TakE1 the grapes before they are fully ripe, put stalks
 and fruit into a convenient wooden tub or use a barrel
 that had formerly contained spirits or liquor and without
 head or top. Crush them until all are broken and to every
pound of fruit add one quart of cold wate.i', use light grapes
only. Leave them for three days stir them two or three
times' a day. Strain and add three pounds and a quarter
of cube Sugar to eve.Icy gallon of liquid. When this is
dissolved put the wine at once into your barrel, which
should be completely filled, reserve a half gallon for the
purpose of filling it up as the fermentation sub sides. Keep
the cask in a cool cellar. In fifteen days add one. pint of
Brandy, and a quarter of an ounce of isingless to every
five gallons of wine. Bottle in Champagne bottles. Corks
must be.1 wired down so they will not pop open.


                    M\ILBERRY WINE
  Gather Berries before the.y are quite ripe, bruise in crock.
  To every quart of bruised berries put same amount of
water, let stand 24 hours then strain through course siE.'ve.
  Then add to every gallon of diluted juice 4 pounds white
sugar, allow to ferment in usual way. When ready in
the cask, bottle>.

                           -8-
                  GOOSEBERRY WINE
  Pick both ends, and bruise or crush the fruit and put in
large tub or barrel with cover. Let stand twenty-four
hours then drain the juice, add one quart of lukt- warm
water to every gallon of Gooseberries. Let stand twelve
hours, then mix water with the.• juice, and add twelve
pounds of loaf sugar to five gallons of liquid. Let fer-
ment well in warm but not hot place. In two or three
days it will be ready for your barrel. Put two quarts ·of
brandy in barrel to five gallons of liquid. Bung .it well,
then after six months it is ready to drink (the older the
better)

                 DAMSON PLUM WiNE_
  Stone dry Damsons not too dry in Vessel with Faucet,
8 pounds fruit to one gallon water, boil the water, pour
over fruit scalding hot, let stand 2 days then drain it off.
To every gallon liquor put 3 pounds of fine sugar. Pour
into cask and use.• after 100 days. The older the better.

                  CHERRY RED WINE
  Ten gallons pure juice of cherries, add 24 pound! gran-
ulated sugar, Mix well, Let stand 3 days covered, Mix
twice a day, Press fruit thru cloth and add juice. Mix
both well and strain into -Cask, add 5 pints good brandy.
Rind of 6 lemons pare.'d thin, (no Whites) also one oz.
best isinglass dissolved in little water, Tighten bung in
keg good, let stand in cellar 90 days or over.        ·

                RED RASPBERRY WINE
  Put any amount raspberries in stone crock, cover with
boiling water allow to cool ove.r night, (mash if desired)
s~rain through clean. white cloth into crock.   Let ferment
18 days then add one pound sugar to every gallon of rasp-
berry juice, also one pint of aged gin or brandy then bottk
                                         _...:..:,.1
                     APRICOT WINE
  Boil 12 pounds Apricots {pitted and sound) 1 pound
sugar in three gallons of water for % hour, strain liquor
cool, put *
in pot, put 2 kernals in, cook all till boiled, take out and
             cake yeast in crock with juice and ferment 4
days, then put in crock till fermentation is over, skim put
in pint white wine, Mix and then bottle.
                MULLED CLARET WINE
  A few cloves, ;q oz. of cinnamon, thin peel of   *
                                                   lemon,
2 round slices lemon, 4 oz. of sifted sµgar and one pint
of w:ater, boil for 15 minutes in an enameled saucepan,
add a little gratEid nutmeg or powdered ginger, 2 large
bottles Claret Wine, one small glass of Brandy or Curacao.
When near boiling, strain, bottle.
                  STRAWBERRY WINE
  Take any amount of strawberries, put same in stone crock
and cover with boiling water, allow to cool ove:rnight
(mash if desired) strain through white clean cloth into
crock, let ferment 18 days, then add one pound sugar to
every gajlon of juice, also one pint of age:d gin or Brandy.
(Brandy preferred.) Then bottle.
                  ELDERBERRY WINE
  10 gallons elderberries, 10 gallons of water, 45 pounds
white sugar, 8 oz. red tartar, forment with one cake fresh
yeast, skim off impurities, then pour into cask with 4
ounces ginger root sliced or allspice and 3 oz. of bitter al-
monds suspended in cloth bag infuse in liquor while it
ferments. 3 quarts of brandy may\ be added when wine is
clear. Bottle.
                     WINE MEASURE
     2 pints make one quart.
     4 quarts make one gallon.
     10 gallons make one! Anchor.
     42 gallons make one Tierce.
    63 gallons make one Hogshead.
     2 Hogs Heads make one Pipe.
    2 pipes make one Ton.
                             10 -
AVERAGE QUANTITY OF ALCOHOL USUALLY FOUND
                    IN WINES
     Port Wine, 25.41
     Sherry Wine, 19.17
     Bordeaux Wine, 15.10
     Sparkling Champagne, 12.62
     Madeira Wine, 25.09
      Muscatel Wine, 18.25
     Sauterne, 14.22
     Still, 13.80
     Red Burgundy Wine, 22.27
      Malaga Wine, 17.26
      Claret, 15.10
      Hermitage White, 17.43

                SERVICE OF ALL WINES
  Serve wines iced in W.jne - Buckets, have glasses cold.
Have clean napkin encircling bottle when operung
and pouring Wine so that wine• will not run or drip. Be
careful in opening bottle as accident may happen with cork
through neglect of server. In opening wine at Bar al-
ways have wine glasses fillE.'11 with sliaved ice in front of
guest before service. Take out ice when ready to pour
the wine, then se1rve with napkin around bottle, as men-
tioned above.

            WINE SERVICE FOR COURSES
        Appetizers-Sherry and Bitters.
        Soups-Dry Sherry Wine.
        Fish- Sauterne or Moselle•.
        Roast-Red Burgundy Wine-Claret-Port.
        Game-Champagne.
        Pastry-Madeira or Malaga.
        Fruit- Tokay.
        Cheese-Port Wine.
  Note:-Manhattan or Martini Cock Tail can be sub-
stituted for Sherry in service of appetizer.

                          -11-
        In every Rtdpe listed in this book starting with Cock-
      tails, those of my readers who may be rather confused re-
      lative to its meaning_ Jigger-A measure of one oz. of
      any Liquor or Liquid used in preparing drinks.

                             COCKTAILS
         Cock Tails are an American Drink, and were originated
      in th"is Country. In serving Cocktails always have Glass
      filled with Cracked Ice while you are preparing the Cock-
      tail_ When Drink is prepared remove Cracked Ice from
      Glass, and pour your Cocktail in.         Serve in Cocktail
      Glass, unless otherwise specifiE.·d _ Always Ice, Mix, then
    • Strain. 'Cherry or Green Olive top if desired.
                      MANHATTAN COCK'.l'AIL
        % jigger Bourbon Whiskey, % jigger of Italian Ver-
      mouth. A dash of Angostura Bitter, Ice, mix, strain and
      serve.

                        MARTINI COCKTAIL
        % jigger of gin, % jigger of Italian Vermouth, dash oJ
      orange bitters, Ice, Mix, strain and serve.
                      MARTINI DRY COCKTAIL
        }2  jigger French Vermouth, ~2 jigger Dry gin, Ice, Mix,
      strain and serve.
                       DUBONNET COCKTAIL
        * jigger Dubonnet, * jigger dry gin,
      orange bitters, Ice, Mix, strain and serve.
                                                    1 or 2 dashe!


                      BRONX DRY COCKTAIL
        * jigger Gordon Dry gin, * jigger French Vermouth,
      barspoon of orange juice. A slice of orange on top.

•                      BRONX COCK TAIL
        M jigger French Vermouth,    *  jigger dry gin, . M jigge1
      Italian Vermouth. A: iilice of orange top.
               OLD FASHIONED COCKTAIL
  l jigger of liquor desired, one half spoon powdered sugar,
l dash of orange bitters, serve in old fashioned glas1
with small rind of an orange top.
                    SHERRY COCK TAIL
     ! jigger sherry, 2 dashes of Angostura bitters,
spoon of sugar.
                                                       *   bar

                 COUNTESS COCKTAIL
  % jigger dry gin, 1/3 jigger French Vermouth, Orange
Peel top crushed, Cherry.
                  CARUSO COCKTAIL
  % jigger Bourbon, 1/a jigger of Italian Vermouth, 2
dashes of Absinthe, Ice, Mix, Strain and Serve.


~2
  *jigger           ALBANY COCKTAIL
      jigger French Vermouth, 2 dashes of Orange Bitters,
           Rum, Ice, Mix, Strain and   Serve~


  *
syrup,
      jigger Dry "'Gin, juice of * a Iinie, a dash of simple
         ~4
                      CLUB COCKTAIL
           jigger of Italian Vermouth, a dash of Angostura
Bitters, Ice, Mix, Strain.   Serve.
                  MEDIN AH , COCKTAIL
  ~4 jigger Gordon dry gin, M jigger Italian Vermouth, a
dash of bitters, Ice, Mix, Strain. Serve.
                 BOBBIE BURNS COCKTAIL
     % jigger imported Scotch Whiskey, 1/a jigger Italian
Vermouth, dash of Angostura Bitters, Ice, Mix, Strain and
Serve.
                      FRISCO COCKTAIL
     %, jigger Bacardi rum, 1/a jigger of French Vermouth, a
dash of orange bitters, Ice, Mix, Strain and Serve.
                  DENVER COCK TAIL
   M jigger french vermouth~ ~4 jigget of Benedictine,       ~~
jigger dry gin, Ice, Mix, Strain and Serve.

                             -13-
                                                               I



                     CASTLE COCKTAIL
    ;2 jiggtr Irish Whiskey, 74. jigger French Vermouth, ~4
 jigger Dubonnet, dash angostura Bitters, Ice, Mix, Strain
 and Serve.
                  SOCIETY COCK TAIL
   % jigger French Vermouth, % jigger Sloe Gin, a dash o1
 absipthe, Ice, Mix, Strain and Serve.
                 KENTUCKY COCKTAIL
   % jigger Kentucky bourbon, Whiskey, % jigger French
Vermouth, one barspoon sugar, dash of orange bitter, Ice,
Mix, St!ain and Serve.
                   HAVANA COCKTAIL
  ;:z jigger Bacardi Rum, ~ jigger French Vermouth, ~
jigger Cognac, a dash of orange Bitters, Ice, Mix, Strain
and Serve.
                      SOUR COCKTAIL
  :;4 jigger Italian Vermouth, ;4 jigger Lemon juice, a dash
bitters, 1 barspoon sugar, Ice, Mix, Strain and Serve.
              KNICKERBOCKER COCKTAIL
  % jigger bourbon whiskey, a dash of Angostura bitters,
 % jigger of Italian Vermouth, orange peel top, Ice, Mix,
·Strain and Serve.
                CHICAGO COCKTAIL
  % Jigger Dry, Gin, ;4 jigger of orange JUiee, 2 dashes
of French Vermouth, Olive on top, Ice, Mix, Strain ancl
Serve.
                   JACK'S COCKTAIL
  % jigger Dry Gin, % jigger French Vermouth, \].a~h of
Angostura Bitters, 1 barspoon sugar, Ice, Mix, Strain and
Serve.
                  LILLIAN'S COCKTAIL
  % jigger Scotch Whiskt·y, % jigger French Vermouth, a
dash orange Bitters,• barspoon sugar, Ice, Mix, Strain aniJ
Serve,

                         -14-
                   DADDY'S COCKTAIL
  ~4 jigger rum, ~4 jigger Italian Vermouth, dash Orange
Bitters, Ice, Mix, Strain and Serve.
                   QUEEN'S COCKTAIL
I. ~4 jigger dry gin,   *
                       jigger French Vermouth,      *
                                                    jigger
)Brandy, da sh Orange Bitters, Ice, Mix, Strain and Serve.
                    ASTOR COCKTAIL
  1/ 3 Jigger Absinthe, 1/ 3 jigger French Vermouth, 1/ 3 jig-
ger Bourdon Whiskey, 2 dashes orange bitters, Ice, Mix,
Strain and Serve.
                 HARVARD COCKTAIL
  ~2 jigger French Vermouth, % jigger Rye whiskey, one
spoon of Grenadine syrup, Ice, Mix, Strain and Serve.
                     YALE COCKTAIL
  % jigger dry gin, .l/3 jigger of Italian Vermouth, 2 dashes
of orange bitters, 1 barspoon sugar, Ice, Mix, Strain and
Serve.
                PROHIBITION COCKTAIL
                                         -
  % jigger orange, 1/3 jigger lemon juice, 1 barspoon sugar,
serve with cherry on top in cocktail glass, Ice, Mix, Strain
and Serve.
                SWEENEY'S COCKTAIL
 1 jigger Irish Whiskey, 1 Mashed sprig mint, dash
Angostura Bitters, Ice, Mix, Strain and Serve.
                CALIFORNIA COCKTAIL
  % jigger dry gin, 1/a jigger of California orange juice, a
dash orange bitters, Ice, Mix, Strain and Serve.
                    CUBAN COCKTAIL
  % jigger of Bacardi Rum, 1/a jigger Lime juice, a dash
of Angostura Bitters, Ice, Mix, Strain and Serve.
                 ABSINTHE COCKTAIL
  ~4 jigger absinthe,   *jigger wa t er, 2 dashes Grenadine
syrup, Ice, Mix, Strain and Serve.
                            -15-
                          COOLERS
   Serve Coolers in tall thin Glass that contains one Cube
 of. Ice. One- or two Sprigs Mint top of Drink. If desired.
 Stir good after pouring Drink into Glass with a spoon.
 Never use a Mixer. Serve.
      •               QUEEN'S COOLER
     1 Jigger English Dry Gin, 1 spoon of Sugar, cube of Ice,
 fill glass with Imported Soda. Stir and Serve.
                  KENTUCKY COOLER
  1 jigger Kentucky Bourbon Whiskey, 72 figger lime juice,
1 lemon rind crusht'll, fill glass with ginger ale and serve
2 sprigs mint top.

                    WINNEPEG COOLER
  1 jigger of three star Hennessey, juice of ~ orange, 1
cube of ice in glass, fill wil:h imported Ginger Ale, Slice
of orange·, sprig of mint on top.

                     CASEY'S COOLER
   1 cube ice in lemonade glass, 1 jigger imported Irish
Whiskey, juice of ~2 lt·mon, 1 barspoon sugar, fill glass
with Ginger ale, stir, serve with three sprigs of mint and a
slice on lemon on top.
                   ESKIMO COOLER
 1 jigger brandy, ~ jigger lemon juice, 1 barspoon sugar,
mix with Club Gingt'I Ale, Slice Lemon on top, stir.

                   GINGER ALE COOLER
  Juice of 1 lemon or jigger of lemon juice, 1 barspoon of
sugar, cube of ice, fill glass with ginger Ale, Stir and serve

                SARSAPARILLA COOLER
  Juice of 1 lemon, 1 barspoon of sugar, 1 cube of ice, fill
glass with Sarsaparilla, sprig Mint, Orange Cherry top.
                          -16-
                     PINEAPPLE COOLER
  l jigger crushed pineapple, 1 barspoon, l' jigger of Hol-
land Gin, cube of ice in glass, fill glass with ginger ale
and stir.
                 STRAWBERRY COOLER
 ' 2 jiggers strawberry syrup, 8 strawberrh..s, 1 jigger of
sloe gin, cube of ice in glass, fill with soda Water, stir.
                 CA·LIFORNfA COOLER
  1 jigger orange,   *jigger lemon juice, 1 barspoou sugar,
1 jigger of Bourbon Whiskey, slice orllllge, slice of lemon
and 1 cherry on top, cube of ice, stir, serve with apolinaris
water.

  One jigger lemon juice,    ·*
                  SUNNY BOY COOLER
                            pigger orange juice.., one jigger
sherry, 2 barspoons sugar, Ice, Mix, Sfrain, serve with
soda water, stir, cube ice in glass, fruit on top.

  1 jigger orange.· juice,   *
              ATLANTIC CITY COOLER
                        barspoon sugar, 1 jigger of bour-
bon whiskey in glass that contains cube of Ice, fill glass
with soda water, stir.
                  ASBURY PARK COOLER
  1 jigger sloe gin, 1 jigger of orange juice, 1 cube ice in
glass, fill glass with domestic soda, stir.
                   HOT SPRINGS COOLER
  1 jigger brandy,   '2 jigge.T lemon juice, 1 barspoon sugar,
1 cube ice, fill glass with ginger ale, put fruit on top.
                  NORTH POLE COOLER
  Juice· of· ~2 an orange, 1 jigger of Johnny Walker Whis-
key, 2 dashes of Angostura Bitters, one cube of ice in
Glass, fill with imported ginger ale, Stir.
                      QUEBEC COOLER
  1 jigger Canadian Club Whiskey, juice of one· lime, 1
barspoon sugar, one cubt ice in Glass, fill with Ginger Ale,
Stir.

                             -17-
                       EGGNOGS
  Place in your mixer Jigger of Liquor (desired) Jigger
of Milk, one egg, one spoon of Sugar, one of two dashE.~
rum. Use as much' milk as, you deem necessary. Mix all
thoroughly. Strain into glass. Dash Nutmeg top. Use
Ice only when recipe calls for it.
            HENNESSY'S 3 STAR EGG NOG
 • 1 jigger Hennessy's 3 Star, 1 fresh egg, 1 barspoon of
sugar, dash of imported rum, 1 jigger of Milk, Ice, Mix
and strain. Serve with nutmeg.
                    COCKNEY EGG NOG
  Put 1 tablespoon of powdered sugar .and one egg into
shak.e r, add a tablespoon full boiling water and ~2 jigger
of Jamaica rum,
milk and serve.
                  *    jigger Brandy, mix with jigger bot

               EGG NOG FOR 25 GUESTS
  1 dozen eggs, 2 quarts fresh milk, dash of nutmeg, 1 cup
sugar, 1 pint of Cream, 1 quart good rum, 1 pint of good
Brandy, b~at egg yolks until thick, and whites until stiff,
Add pinch of salt, cup sugar to the yolks, add Milk, Mix
thoroughly, then add liquors, Mix again, finally fold in
egg whites, sprinkle cinnamon or nutmeg on top.
                 NON-ALCOHOLIC EGG NOG
  1 Jigger Cream, 1 Jigger Milk, 1 Egg, 1 spoon powdered
sugar, !>f Jigger any Sweet .Syrup desired. Ice, Mix, Strain
and Serve. Dash Nutmeg top.
                      RYE EGGNOG
   1 Jigger Rye Whiskey, one fresh egg, one• spoon powdered
~ ugar, 1 Jigger of Cream. Ice, Mix and Strain into Glass.
Dash :Nutmeg top.
                   ST. CROIX EGG NOG
   1 Jigger St. Croix Rum, 1 Fresh egg, 1 Ji gger Milk, 1
Jigger Crt-am, 1 spoon of sugar. Ice, Mix and Strain into
l1lass.

                         -   18 -
                      CUBAN EGG NOG
    1 Jigger of Bacardi Rum, 1 Spoon of Powden.d sugar,
 one egg, 1 Jigger of Cream, Ice, Mix. Strain and Serve.
                     BRANDY EGG NOG
    1 Jigger Brandy, 1 Fresh egg, 1 jigger Cream, 1 spoon
Jigger Cream, 1 spoJn powdered sugar. Ice, Mix anrl Strain
mto Class. Serve.
                EGG NOG ENGLISH STYLE
   Put one tablespoon powdered sugar and one egg in mix-
E:r and mix well, add %. jigger of rum and   *   a jigger of
Brandy, also 1 jigger hot milk, mix well and serve in mug
with nutmeg or cinnamon.
                   KENTUCKY EGGNOG'
   1 jigger Kentucky Bourbon Whiskey, 1 jigger of milk, 1
egg, 1 barspoon sugar, 1 d,ash Jamaica Rum, ice, mix,
Strain, serve with nutmeg.
               OLD FASHIONED EGG -NOG
   Bt-at one egg until foamy, add 1 barspoon sugar, beat
again, then add 1 jigger i_m ported tum and 1 jigger Cream,
mix, ice, strain, serve with nutmeg top.
                      IRISH EGG NOG
   1 jigger imported Irish Whiskey, 1 fresh egg, 1 barspoon
sugar, 1 jigge·r milk, dash imported rum, Mix Ice, Strain
Nutmeg top.
                     SCOTCH EGG NOG
   1 jigger Scotch Whiskey, 1 Fresh. Egg, 1 jigger milk,
dash of rum, 1 barspoon sugar, Strain, Mix with ice, serve
nutmeg top.
                   JAMAICA EGG NOG
   1 jigger Jamaica Rum, 1 •fresh egg, 1 barspoon sugar, 1
jigger milk, 1 dash of rum, Ice, Mix and Strain, Nutmlg
top.
                  CANADIAN EGG NOG
  1 jigger ,Canadian Whiskey, 1 fresh egg, 1 jigger milk,
dash Jamaica rum, 1 barspoon sugar, ice, mix and strain,
Nutmeg on top.

                         -19-
                           FLIPS
 Ice, Mix extra well, all liquids, and etc. strain into glass.
Dash - of grated Nutmtg or Cinnamon lop. Serve.
                     .SCOTCH FiLIP
  1 jigger imported .Scotch Whiskey, 1 -fresh egg, 1 bar-
spoon, Ice, Mix, and strain, NutmE.-g.
                         GIN FLIP
  1 jigger of Gin, 1 'Egg, 1 barspoon sugar, -Ice, Mix grated
nutmeg top.
                JOHNNY W AL'KER FL'IP
  1 jigger Johnny Walker Whiskey, '1 b'a rspoon sugar, 1
egg, Ice, Mix, grated Nutmeg.
            EGG FLIP HOT-(English Style)
   Mix thoroughly 1 pint warm ale, 2 or 3 eggs be:aten, 1
jigger syrup, serve in warm mugs with grated ginger or
nutmeg on top.
                    JAMAICA FLIP
  1 jigger Jamaica Rum, 1 egg, 1 barspoon sugar, strain,
mix, ice, nutmeg.
                     BOURBON FLIP
   1 jigger Bourbon, 1 barspoon sugar, 1 tgg, strain, mix,
ice, serve, nutmeg.
                    KENTUCKY FL1P
  1 jigger Kentucky Bourbon Whiskey, 1 fresh egg, 1 bar-
spoon sugar, Ice, Mix, Nutmeg.
                       SADIE~FLIP
 1 jigger Rhine Wine, 1 barspoon sugar, ·1 frt·s h egg, Ice,
Mix, nutmeg.
                     SLOE GIN FLIP
 1 aigger 'Sloe Gin, 1 fresh egg, 1 barspoon of sugar, lee,
Mix, Strain.

                           -   20-
                          IRISH FLIP
  1 Jigger imported Irish Whiskey, 1 fresh c.'gg, 1 barspcon
rngar, Ice, Mix, and Strain.
                     COMBINATION FLIP
   1 Jigger Hennessey's Brandy, ~2 Jigger Port Wine, 1
fre sh egg, 1 barspoon Suga r. Ice, Mix and Strain. Gratea
Nutmc.g top.
                           GIN FLIP
  1 Jigger of Holland Gin, 1 Egg, 1 barspoon sugar.        lee
mi; and strain into Glass.          Dash Nutmeg on top:
                        .CLARET FLIP
  1 Jigger of Clarc.t Wine, 1 Fresh egg. 1: barspoon sugar.
Ice, mix and strain into Glass. ·Grated Nutmeg top.
                        BRANDY FLlP
  1 jigger imported Brandy, 1 fresh egg, 1 barspoon suga1.
Ice, l\llix, Strain, nutmeg.
                 .   'PORT WINE FLIP
  1 jiggc.·r Port W"ine, 1 fresh egg, - 1 barspoon sugar, let,
Mix, and strain.
                       SHERRY FLIP
  1 jigger of Sherry, 1 fresh egg, 1 barspoon sugar, lee,
Mix, strain.
                   THREE STAR FLIP
  1 jigger  Hennessey 's Three Star, Teaspoon sugar, l
fresh egg, Ice, Mix, Nutmc.g.
                         RUM FLIP
   l fre sh egg, 1 jigger J amaica Rum, 1 barspoon sugar,
Ice, Mix, nut meg.
                   OLD TIMERS FLIP

2 dashes Apricot Brandy,
and strain. Nutmeg.
                                   *
  Serve in Claret· Glass, Yolk of 1 egg, 1 jigger sloe Gin,
                               barspoon sugar, Ic~·, Shake


                               -   21 -
                            FIZZES
   Mix all ingredients thoroughly (without Ice) Strain into
Glass, and then fizz with Seltzer. Be sure Seltzer is extra
cold. A small peel of Lc:mon may be crushed on top over
drink if desired. Stir with spoon. Serve.
                       DRY GIN FIZZ
    1 jigger Dry Gin, 1 barspoon sugar, juice of ;2 a lemon,
Mi;'C, Strain, and pour into glass. Then fizz with Siphon.
                    NEW ORLEANS FIZZ
    1 jigger dry gin, juice of ·% a lemon, 2 dashes orange
fl.owe:r water, spoon of granulated sugar, white of one egg,
1 jigger cream, dash of lime juice, mix thoroughly, strain
into lemonade glass and fizz with siphon.
                       CLARET FIZZ
    1 jigger of Claret, juice of ;2 a lemon, 1 barspoon of
sugar, Ice, Mix, strain, then fizz with seltzer.
                         ROYAL FIZZ
    Juice of % a Lemon, 1 spoon of sugar, 1 whole egg, 1
Jigger Imported Dry Gin. Ice and Mix extra well. Strain
into glass and fill with Siphon of Seltzer. Some use Im-
ported Ginger Ale. Take your choice. Serve·.
                       SLOE GIN FIZZ
    Juice of % a kmon, 1 jigger of sloe gin, 1 barspoon
sugar, Mix, strain, then fizz with siphon, twisted lemon
peel on top.
                        GOLDEN FIZZ
    1 jigger dry gin, yolk of one egg, JUice of ~2 lemon, 1
barspoon sugar, ice, mix, strain and ~erve in Claret or
Le:monade glass, then fizz with siphon.
                      KENTUCKY FIZZ
    1 jigger bourbon whiskey, 1 barspoon sugar, juice of ~2
a lemon, mix, Strain and pour into glass, then fizz with
seltzer.
                       TAVERN FIZZ •
    1 jigger Holland Gin, ;2 jigger raspberry syrup, juice
% lime, Mix, Strain, serve with siphon and fizz.

                         -22-
                           RITZ FIZZ
       Juice of % lemon, 1 Jigger Hennesey 3 Star brandy, 1
     barspoon Sugar, Ice, Mix, Strain, serve with Seltzer.
     Crushed Lemon Peel top.
                               GIN FIZZ
       1 jigger of Gin, juice of ~2 a lemon, 1 barspoon of sugar,
     Mix, strain, then fizz with a siphon, twist lemon peE:l on
     top, stir.
                          CANADIAN FIZZ
       1 jigger Canadian Club Whiskey, juice of % a . lime, 2
     barspoons of sugar, 1 fresh egg, mix good, strain and pour
     into claret glass, then fizz with siphon, ~tir.
                           LONDON FIZZ
       1 jigger Gordon Gin, juice of % a lime, % jigger of
     Gre:nadine, Mix, Strain into Glass, Fizz with Siphon.
                         McGREGOR'S FIZZ
        1 jigger imported Scotch Whiskey, 1 barspoon of sugar,
    · juice of % lime, mix and strain into Glass, fizz with
      seltzer.                         ~

                     AMERICAN BEAUTY FIZZ
       1 jigger Sloe Gin, % jigger raspberry syrup, 1 egg yolk,
     % jig_ger Cream, juice of ~2 a lt-mon, Mix thoroughly,
     pour into Claret glass and then fi.z~ with siphon.
                           ASTORIA FIZZ
       ~2
     sugar, juice *
           jigger rye whiskey, ~2 jigger port wine, 1 barspoon
                      a lemo·n , white of one egg, Mix, Strain,
     fill with stUzer. ·
                          JAMAICA FIZZ
       1 jigger Jamaica Rum, 1 barspoon of sugar, juice of
     ~2 .a lime, Mix, Serve with siphon.

                           SILVER F'IZZ
        1 jigger dry gin, 1 barspoon sugar, Juice of % lemon,
     white of one egg, mix, strain into lemonade glass, then
     fizz with siphon.

                               -23-




I                                                              t
                               CUPS
     Always serve cups in pitcher, fill pitcher with ice and
 wuen ready pour into same after taking part of the ice
 out. Serve in wine cups with sprig of mint.
                       CHAMP AGNE CUP
     1 quart Champagne, 1 pony simple sjrrup, 1 pony brandy,
 ~2 small sliced lemon very thin, one whole orange sliced
very; thin, 10 diced pieces of pineapple, two pear halves,
diced, 2 peach halves diced, 1 pint of Apollinaris water, mix
thoroughly and serve each cup with sprig of mint. Serve -
in large glass pitcher with large piece, of ice.
                    CHAMPAGNE CUP NO. 2
     1 qui!rt Champagne, 1 pint white rock Lifhia, 1 pony
Cognac, 1 pony brandy, 1 pony Raspbtrry syrup, 1 pony
 simple syrup, 4 slices cut thin, of cucumber rind, one
orange one lemon sliced thin, several pieces of pineapple,
 12 cherrit·s, mix all thoroughly and serve in pitcher that
 contains a large piece of ice, stir.
                       HOLLYWOOD CUP
     Two quarts Champagne, 1 pony of Yellow Chartreuse, a
dash or two of Absinthe, 1 pony white curacao, two pints
of soda W a ter, Slice Pineapple, Sliced Peach, Slict·d Pear,
.. ll diced very small, ~2 an orange also ~ lemon cut and
diced small also one dozen red cherrii:s, Mix all thoroughly
and serve in Pitcher that contains large piece of ice, Stir.
                     MOSELLE WINE CUP
     One quart Moselle Wint·, 1 jigger Maraschino syrup, 1
jigger of Cognac, 1 jigger brandy, 3 pints of imported suda
water, the juice of one lemon and 5 slices of orange, 5
slices pineappk, 5 slices of pear, 5 slices of lemon, cut
thin, 3 cucumber rinds, 8 grapes (not Concord) mix stir
into pitcher that contains large piece of ice.
                        BURGUNDY CUP
     1 quart Burgundy wine, 1 pony Maraschino syrup, 1
 pony brandy, 1 pony Cognac, 1 pony of Chartreuse, one
 pint apollinaris water, the juice of half a lemon, one jigger
of si mplt- syrup, 4 slices ofi orange, 4 slices lemon, 4 small
i lires pinea pple, 3 slices of Cucumber rind, 10 green gra pes
or cherries, mix and serve in pitcher that contains large
piect· of ice.

                          -24-
                      GINGER ALE CUP
     Four Pints of Canadian club Ginger Ale, four jiggers
 Hennesse.·y 's three Star Brandy, 2 jiggers Benedictine, one
 jigger grenadine syrup, five pieces, of orange, pineapple
 lemon, and pear diced, two cucumber rinds and one.· jigger
lemon juice, Mix and stir into glass pitcher containing a
large piece of Ice.
                      RHINE WINE CUP
     1 quart of Rhine Wine, 1 jigger of Brandy, 1 jigger
 Maraschino, one jigger Curacao, 1 quart of any good
charge.d water, five pieces of each, diced orange, lemon,
i:·ineapplP. and pear, also ten maraschino red chcrrii!S; three
pieces of cucumber rind, Mix well and serve in a pit :i:Ju
 that contains a large piece of ice, stir.
                       BROADWAY CUP
    Two quarts of Claret, one half pint (8 oz. glass of
 sherry, two lemon rinds, cut thin, one dozen large Marasch-
ino cherries, two pints of Soda Water, domesti~ or im-
ported, two jiggers benedictine, five pieces of Orange,· five
pieces of pineapple, five of slice.'11 lemon, mix, stir and
serve with large piece of ice in a pitcher, stir before serving.
                        WALDORF CUP                       '
    2 quarts of imported Sauterne wine, 1 jigger Curacao,
Juice of % a lemon, 1 jigger simple syrup, 1 quart d
white.· rock lithia, 6 orange and six lemon slices, 1 dozen
Ma rachino cherries, 5 pieces of cucumber rinds, 2 slices
pineapple, 2 halves pears also peaches diced small, Mix
good and serve in pitcht:r with a large piece of ice.
    Note:-Pour punch into same after taking part of the
Ice out.
             HEIDELBERG CUP OR HEBES CUP
    Take one fresh Cucumber rind sliced very thin and put
it into punch bowl with the thin rind of a lemon and three
tablespoons of powdered sugar, w ork all together for four
or five minutes with the.· back of a wood spoon, pour over
them three tablespoonsful of Brandy, six of Sherry, a bot-
tle of Soda Water and a quart of Cla ret, Mix all, let stand
one hour. Just before serving add anothe.T bottle of soda
water.
Serve ~n a punch bowl that contains Ice, stir1 b~forc ~~ryin~.

                           -25 ~
                        RIC KEYS
  Place one Cube of Ice in Glass. Pour Juice of ;z a
Lime over Ice. Then pour Liquor desired in Glass. Fill
Glass with Seltzer, and stir good with a Spoon. Serve.
                      GIN RICKEY
  1 Jigger Gin, Juice % a Lime, One cube Ice in Glass.
Fizz with a seltzer and Stir and Serve.
                  SLOE GIN RICKEY
  1 Jigger Sloe Gin, Juice of ;2 a Lime, one cube Ice in
Glass. Fizz with Seltzer and Stir and Serve.
                    KENTUCKY RICKEY
  1 jigger Kentucky Bourbon Whiskey, Juice % lime, 1
cubE! ice, then fizz with seltzer and Stir and Serve.
                     JAMAICA RICKEY
    1 jigger Jamaica Rum, % juice of lime, 1 cube ice, then
fill glass with seltzer water and Stir and Serve.
                              '
                  IRISH WHISKEY RICKEY
    1 jigger Irish Whiskey, % juice of 1 lime, 1 cube ice
fill glass with seltzer water and stir.
              SCOTCH WHISKEY RICKEY
  1 jigger Sctoch Whiskey, ~2 juice 1 lime, cube ice, fill
glass with seltzer and Stir and Serve.
                     BRANDY RICKEY
   1 jigger Henesey's Brandy, % juice of 1 lime, 1 cube of
ice and Stir and Serve.
                      RYE RICKEY
 1 jigger rye whiskey, % juice of 1 lime, 1 cube ice, in
Glass, Fizz with Seltzer and Stir and Serve.
                   GIN OR RYE BUCK
  1 jigger of Rye or Gin, juice of % a lime, 1 cube of ice,
Fill glass with imported ginger-ale and stir. Crushed lemon
on top if desired.

                         -26-
                       HIGH BALLS
   Service of High Balls. Place cube of Ice in Glass, Pour
Liquor desired into Glass and Fizz with Seltzer, or mix
with Ginger Ale or Soda Water. Stir and Serve.
                   SCOTCH HIGH BALL
  1 jigger imported scotch Whiskey, and make as directed.
                 CANADIAN HIGH BALL
  1 jigger Canadian Whiskey, Use Canadian Ginger Ale
and make as directed.
               HOLLAND GIN HIGH BALL
  1 jigger imported gin, and make as directed.
                  BRANDY HIGH BALL
  1 jigger imported Brandy and make as directed.
                    RUM HIGH BALL
  1 jigger Jamaica Rum and make as directed.
       HENNESSEY'S THREE STAR HIGH BALL
  1 jigger 3 star Hennessey and make as directeil.
             JOHNNY WALKER HIGH BALL
  1 jigger Johnny Walker, make as directed.
                OLD CROW ·HIGH BALL
  1 jigger old Crow, Make as directed.
                  DUBLIN HIGH BALL
  I jigger imported Irish Whiskey make as directed.
                  LONDON HIGH BALL
  % jigger rum, Va jigger Whiskey, make as directed.
               COMBINATION HIGH BALL
  % jigger rum, lj3 jigger Whiskey, make as. directed.
                     RYE HIGH BALL
  1 jigger rye Whiskey, and make as directed.
                 BOURBON HIGH BALL
  1 jigger Bourbon Whiskey, make as directed.
                 SLOE GIN HIGH BALL
  1 jigger sloe Gin, and make as directed.

                        -27-
                           SLINGS
    Crush one cube o:f. sugar in a Glass with one teaspoon
 of Water. Add one cube of Ice. '.!;hen add, Liquor. Crush
 .t Piece of Lemon, or Orange Peel top if desired. Stir
 "·ith Spoon. Serve.

                    THREE STAR SLING
   Mash % cube sugar in old fashioned glass, poui: 1 jigger
Hennessey's 3 Star into Glass also, 1 crushed lemon peel,
. ube of ice, Stir.

                 LAKE LOUISE SLI•NG
   Mash % cube of Sugar in old fashioned glass, pour 1
jigger Canadian Whiskey over same, also 1 cube ice, Stir.
                                                                      '·
                    BACARDI. SLING
   Crush 1 cube of Sugar in old fashioned glass with bar
nu sher, pour 1 jigger Bacardi Rum over same, also one
n nd lemon and cube of ice. Stir with Spoon and Serve

                   HOLLAND SLING
  1 jigger Holland Gin, m ash % cube sugar, pour in old
lashioned glass w ith rind of a lemon and cube of ice.
S ir with Spoon and Serve.

                        BOURBON SLING
   Crush % cube sugar with bar-masher in old fa shi oned
1,l.is:;, then p.our 1 jigger bourbon whiskey into same, also
u ushed lc:mon, cube of ice. Stir with Spoon and Stir.

                        GIN SLING (English)
    P ut a half a small lemon cut int o thn:e slices int o a
J . r~;: t i; mbler, with t wo cubes of sugar, fill glass with fine
s .iaved ice and add one jigger and a half of good Gin, £erve
 with straw. Stir with Spoon and Serve.

                            -   28-
                        COBBLERS
  Fill Glass with clean shaved Ice. Mix .Drink without
Ice, then pour Cobblers in Glass and Stir. Decorate Fruits
on top. Sprig of Mint. If desired. Serve.
               SAUTERNE WINE COBBLER
  l;f jiggers Sauterne· Wine, ;f jiggen simple syrup, ; 2
jigger Lemon juice, stir, pou11 into glass full. of clean ·shaved
ice, fruits on top, serve.
                      GIN COBBLER
  1 jigger of gin, ;f jigger lemon juice, ;4 . jigger simple
syrup, stir, pour into goblet that contains shaved ice. Stir
and Serve. Fruits on top.
                MUSCATEL WINE COBBLER '
   l ;f jiggers Muscatel Wine, 1 crushedl,lemon peel, stir,
and pour into glass full of clean shaved ice. Stir and
Serv~'.   Fruits on~ top.
                RHINE WINE COBBLER
  l;f jiggers rhine wine, ;f jigger simple syrup, crushed
lemon peel, stir, and pour into g]ass full of shaved ice,
Stir and Serve. Fruits on top.
                     !RISH COBBLER
  One jigger imported Irish Whiskey juice of ;f a lemon,
;4 jigger of simple syrup, Mix, and pour into Goblet filled
with clean shaved Ice, Sprig of Mint. Stir and Serve.
Fruits on top.
                 KENTUCKY COBBLER
  Fill goblet with clean shaved Ice, one jigger Kentucky
Bourbon Whiskey, ;4 jigger simple sprup, juice of ;f a
lemon, Stir, pour into goblet. Stir and Serve. Fruits on
top.

                            -29-
              MOSELLE WINE COBBLER
  1% jiggers Moselle Wine, ?2 jigger lemon 1u1ce, bar-
spoon of sugar, stir, pour into glass full of clean shaved
Ice. Stir and Serve. Fruits on top.

                  CANADIAN COBBLER
   One jigger Canadian Club Whiskey, ~ jigger Curacao,
juice' of % a lemon, sE}rve in glass filled with clean shaved
Ice. Stir and Serve. Fruits on top.

                    SCOTCH COBBLER
  1 jigger Scotch imported Whiskey, juice of % a lemon,
~2 jigger of simple syrup, Mix and stir, pour into glass full
of clean shaved ice. Stir and Serve. Fruits on top.

               SHERRY WINE COBBLER
  1% jiggers of sherry wine, % jigger simple syrup, 1
crushed lemon peel, Stir, pour, glass that is full of fine
shaved ice. Stir and Servf.'. Fruits on top.

                 PORT WINE COBBLER
  1% jiggers of port wine, 113 jigger simple syrup, Crushed
lemon peel Stir, pour into glass full of clean shaved ice.
Stir and Serve. Fruits on top.

                      RUM COBBLER
  1 jigger rum, juice of ;f a lemon, ;f jigger of simple
syrup, stir, pour into goblet full of shaved ice. Stir and
Serve. Fruits on top.
                                                                -   I
                  WHISKEY COBBLER
  1 jigger whiskey, juice of ;2 a l~mon, ;f jigger of simple
syrup. Stir, pour into goblet full of shaved ice. Stir and
~erve.Fruits on top.


                         -   30-
                           SOURS
   Ice, Mix and Shake all liquids. Then Strain and pou1
into glass. Decorate fresh fruits on top of Drink. Serve.
                         GIN SOUR
   Juice of ~2 a large lemon or 1 whole lemon, 1 barspoon
of sugar, 1 jigger gin, Ice, Mix, Strain. Fruit on top.
                     CANADIAN SOUR
   1 jigger imported Canadian Whiskey, juice of ~2 a large
lemon, 1 barspoon sugar, Ice, Mix and Strain. Fruits on top.
                    WEE LASSIE SOUR                •
   I jigger imported Scotch Whiskey, juice of % a .lemon,
   barspoon of sugar, Ice, Mix, and strain, fruits on top.
                      WHISKEY SOUR
   Juice of % a lemon, one barspoon of sugar, one jigger
Whiskey, Ice, Mix, Strain. Fruits on top.
                    LOUISVILLE SOUR
  1 jigger Kentucky bourbon Whiskey, 1 barspoon sugar,
juice of ~2 a lemon, Ice, Mix, Strain, fruits on top.
                     SLOE GIN SOUR
  Juice of ~2 a lemon, 1 jigger Sloe Gin, I barspoon of
sugar, ice,- mix, and strain, place fruits on top.
                       SILVER SOUR
   White of one fresh egg, 1 jigger bourbon whiskey,
barspoon sugar, juice of ~2 a lemon, Ice, Mix, Strain.
Fruits on top.
                      JAMAICA SOUR
  One jigger Jamaica rum, one barspoon sugar, juice of ~2
a lemon, Ice, Mix. Serve, fruits on top.
                     ST. REGIS SOUR
  Juice of ;f a lemon, 1 jigger Cognac, 1 barspoon sugar,
Ice, Mix, strain, fruits on top.
                    APPLE JACK SOUR
  1 jigger apple-jack, Juice of % a lemon, 1 barspoon
sugar, ice, Mix, strain. Fruits on top.
                       GOLDEN SOUR
  I jigger Rum, yolk of one egg, I barspoon sugar, juice
of ;f a lemon, Ice, Mix, Strain. Fruits on top.

                         -11-




                                                           _ 0
                            TODDIES
      Crush half a lump of Sugar in a Glass with a teaspoon
  of water. Add oni; cube of ice, 'then add Liquor desiFed.
  Small piece of Lemon Peel. Crush same ·over top of Tod-
 dies. Stir and serve. Note. Hot Toddies use hot water as
 directed.
                      HOT RUM TODDIE
     Crush 1 cube of sugar in ·glass, juice of ~2 a lemon, 1
 f¥11 jigger rum, stir, -add hot water and crushed lemon 'peel.
 Stir and Serve.
       ' -              APPLE TODDIE
     .Mash one cube sugar with bar masher in little water in
 an old fashioned glass, add one jigger apple ja-ck, one cube
 ict.' and stir. Crushed lemon peel top. Stir and Serve.
                      JAMAICA TODDIE
     1 Jigger Jamaica rum, mash one half cube sugar in old
 Fashioned glass, put in 1 cube of ice, then .pour rum in,
 crush 1 lemon peel. Stir and Serve.
                     KENTUCKY TODDIE
    1 jigger Kentucky Bourbon Whiskey, then mash % cube
sugar in a glass, put 1 cube of ice in, P;our Whiskey in
glass, 1 lemon· peel. Stir and Serve.
                 LOUISVILLE MINT TODDIE
    Mash 4 spngs mint in old fashioned glass with % cube
of sugar, put in 1 cube of ice, pour 1 j!_gger Kentucky
Bourbon and 1 crushed lemon, peel, one spl'ig mint top,
Stir and Serve.
                     MICHAEL'S TODDIE
    % mashed cube sugar in glass, 1 cube   of ice, stir with 1
jigger imported Irish Whiskey, crush kmon peel top. Stir
and Serve.
                     CANADIAN TODDIE
    Mash % cube sugar in glass, 1 jigger Canadian Whiskey,
                                                                  I
crushed lemon peel top. Stir and Serve.
                      APRICOT TODDIE
    Mash % cube sugar in old fashioned glass, pour 1 jigger
Apricot Brandy in glass, 1 cube ice, crushed lemon peel
top. Stir and Serve.
                                                                  '
                          -32-
                             COLLINS
     Fill tall thin glass with clean shaved Ice. Then mix
  (without ice) Juice of one small lemon, one spoon powdered
 sugar, one Jigger of Liquor desired. · Mix extra good. Strain
 irito \Glass, and fill with Soda Water. Stir and serve.
                         TOM COLLINS
    1 jigger of dry gin, 1 spoon powdered sugar, juice of ~2
 a large lemon or 1 whole small lemon, Mix good, lltrain
 and pour into glass that contains 1 cube of ice, then fill
 with domestic or imported soda water. Stir and Serve.
       .                ANNIE COLLINS
    1 jigger imported rum, one spoon powder.ed sugar, juice
 of ~2 a large lemon, strain, cube of ice, fill with soda water.
 Stir and Serve.
                         DADDY COLLINS
     1 jigger sloe gin, 1 spoon powdered sugar, juice one small
  lemon, mix good, strain, one cube of ice, fill glass with
  soda water. Stir and Serve.                   ·
                         MICKEY COLLINS
    1 jigger imported Irish Whiskey, 1 spoon powdered sugar,
 juice of *     a large lemon, mix good, strain, one cube of
 ice, fill with soda water, mint top. Stir and Serve.
                         SANDY COLLINS

sugar, juice bf  *
    1 jigger imported Scotch Whiskey, 1 spoon powdered
                        a large lemon, mix good, strain, pour
into glass that contains 'One cube of ice, fill with soda
water. Stir and Serve.
                        JOSEPH COLLINS
    1 jigger Hennessey's Brandy, 1 spoon powdered sugar,
juice of % a large lemon or juice of one small lemon, mix
good, strain, and fill glass with soda water. Stir and Serve.
                       JOHNNY COLLINS
   1 jigger rye whiskey, 1 spoon of powdered sugar, juice of
1 whole small lemon, mix strain, one ·cube of i'ce, then fill
&lass with soda watE.'r. Stir and Serve.

                          -   33-
                         SYRUPS
                     SIMPLE SYRUP
  Simple syrup is made by dissolving granulated sugar to
the consistency of syrup as follows, 12 pounds of granu-
lated sugar to one gallon water, place sugar in clean pot
with water, heat to boiling point, skim off impurities
should any rise to the surface. When cool strain and pour
into your containers or crock.
  When sugar and water is on the stove to cook, stir until
the sugar is dissolved. In order to avoid granulation of
sugar keep side of kettl e free from grains or crystals that
have a tendency to form there. This may be done with a
rag squeezed out in cold water. If it does granulate it
may be reboiled after adding more water (although this
makes poor syrup). Do not jar kettle when pouring out
or partial granulation may result.

                  FRUITS AND JUICES
  2 pints any fruit juice to 1 gallon of syrup, but don't
put all in at once, put ~2 then balance till thickness of
syrup is desired. Be sure teaspoon baking soda also 2
teaspoon vinegar is in simple syrup when made.        Mix
vinegar and soda good, then strain all through sieve.

                  MARASCHINO SYRUP
  Strain the juice of a large sweet orange and pour it
with a wine-glassful of water onT three ounces of sugar,
boil it to a rather stiff bright syrup and then skim, add a
quarter of _an ounce of bleached bitter almonds and a small
quantity of lemon . rind, or the peel of a quarter of lemon
may be rubbed off on lumps of sugar. When clear and
thick strain and mix with a wineglassful of maraschino
stirred into it. Maraschino is stilled from the juice of
the Marasco cherry and flavored with broken kernels.
Note:-If desired alcoholic add one jigger pure alcohol, and
mix good.

                         -34-




                                  _____,_   -   -   -   -   -   --
             CREME DE MENTHE SYRUP
  4 pints peppermint water freshly made U. S. P., 6
pounds granulated sugar Vegetable green to color, perco-
late or agitate in preparing.

                  GRENADINE SYRUP
  Two cups pomegranate juice, two cups simple syrup, 2
tablespoons strained lemon juice, mix and whip all
thoroughly, place in bottle. This recipe makes one . pint
and a half. It can be made thicker by adding mote simple
syrup if desired. ~2 spoon of red vegetable coloring can
be added for better color also. (Note) Put 2 teaspoons
vinegar and one teaspoon of Bicarbonate of Soda with
pomell;rante juicE', and simple syrup, ·and mix thoroughly
when you desire to keep it a little longer than usual.

                   VANILLA SYRUP
   1 quart Simple Syrup, ~4 fluid oz. extract of Vanilla,
also 1/ 16 oz. Of carmel. Mix all thoroughly and put in
in container. Keep in cool place covered.

                  CHOCOLATE SYRUP
   Mix one half cup powden.tl sugar and one half a cup
chocolate ground. Add a little boiling water and make a
paste. Add 1 Teaspoon Vanilla Syrup and mix good. Then
add Simple Syrup warm, and mix all to proper con-
sistencey desired. HE-avy or Light.

                  COLORED SYRUPS
  These Syrups without Fruits. Take one pint of Simple
Syrup and add any colored desired Red, Green, Ydlow and
etc. Mix extra well and Strain.

                        -   35-
                           PUNCHES

             B·E ST W'AY TO SERVE PUN<i:HES

                                 1
     Secure a deep tray or roast pan; cover it with a table
  cloth or napkin clean and white, place newspapers under-
. neath; then put large piece of' ice in center and in center
  of ice put a large container full of boiling hot water. Let
  it make a large hole• ini ice good and deep. '])hen clean. out
  with clean white cloth. On top of ice and around• the
  bottom of the Ice lays sprigs of mint. Always serve with
  fresh fruits in season. Lay fresh fruits around bowl.

                             2
   After making hole in ice set your punch bowl in center
 and fill. Have ladel handy always. Decorate around bowl
 and bottom of ice with clean fresh mint, serve in wine
 cups always, sprig of mint if desired. Also have a clean
 white cloth handy also buckets to mop up drippings of
 w·ater. Squeeze or wring water into the bucket or pail.

                              3
    Or else take one watermelon cut in half, take out red
 fruit carefully and leave white and outside green. Take
 clean white rag and clean outside of melon, put in hole in
 ice and fill melon with punch and piece of ice, take a
 parisian ball cutter and cut rounds of Red Melon, and put
 one on top of each punch with Sprig of Mint. Serve.


                            PUNCH
                         WASSAIL
   A christmas and festive occasion on which good wishes
 are expressed in drinking, celebrating and aliio singjng of
 Carols.

                            -   38-
                           WASSAIL BOWL
        The Wassail Bowl used in ancient days to be served
      on Christmas Eve. It was brought into room with songs
      and carols and crowned with garlands. Simmer a small
      quantity of the following spices in a tea cup full of water
     viz, cardamons, cloves, nutmeg, ginger, cinnamon and cori-
     ander. When done mix with six bottles of port, sherry or
     Madeira wint1s. Choice of one. 2 pounds of loaf sugar
     pounded, set all on the fire in a clean pot or pan, mean-
     while have the yolks of! twelve eggs and the whites of six
     well whisked up in bowl, then when the spiced and sugared
     wine is a little warm take from it at intervals three or
     four cupfuls and pour them into bowl, when it boils add
     all the remained, and stir briskly all the time so as to
V'   froth it. The moment a fine froth is obtained toss in 12
     soft roasted apples, and s&rve it hot. This recipe is over
     150 years old.
                       RHINE WINE PUNCH
        3 quarts Rhine Wine, 2 jiggers simple syrup, 1 jigger
     Lemonade, 1 jigger of orange juice, 1 orange and 1 lemon
     sliced thin quartered. Fresh green grapes or red grapes
     or both, Mix good and serve in wine cups, put large piece
     of ice in bowl. Sprig mint on top if desired. If too
     strong add one quart spring water then mix all.
                        BURGUNDY PUNCH
       3 quarts burgundy wine, 1 jigger Brandy, 1 Jigger rum,
     1 jigger simple syrup, 2 quarts white rock, 1 jigger Cura-
     cao, 1 orange; 1 lemon sliced thin in quarters, 2 dozen
     Maraschino Cherries, fresh fruit diced. Large Piece ice in
     bowl. Mix thoroughly and serve in Champagne cups.
                     SAUTERNE WINE PUNCH
       3 quarts Sauterne Wine, 1 jigger Brandy, 2 jiggers simple
     syrup, 1 jigger Gin, 2 quarts Soda Water, 1 jigger Curacao,
     2 oranges, 2 lemons sliced thin in quarters, one Number 1
     can diced pineapple, chtnies, mix thoroughly and serve in
     bowl with large piece ice. Serve in glass cups with a sprig
     mint on top if desired.              ·

                              -37-
             FISH HOUSE PUNCH (English)
  2 quarts whiskey, 1 pint of benedictine, 1 quart peach
brandy, 1 pint curacao, 1 pint Jamaica rum, 1~2 pounds
granulated sugar, juice of 4 dozen Lemons, mix all above
ingredients and pour into a demijohn crock or jug, do not
seal for 10 to 12 days, stir everyday. Strain thru cloth,
serve in punch bowt and add one quart sweet cider, also 2
quarts Charged Watt'l".
                     CLARET PUNCH
  2 quarts Claret, 1 quart white rock, 2 jiggers Hennessey's
Brandy, 1 jigger Grenadine, % jigger simple syrup, 2 long
thin cucumber rinds, 8 maraschino cherries, 1 small sliced
lemon, 1 small sliced orange, 2 sliced pineapplE.'s cut small,
1 dozen green grapes, 1 pear sliced small, mix and serve in
punch bowl that contains a large piece of ice. Stir.
                MOSELLE WINE PUNCH
3 quarts Moselle Wine, 2 jiggers Benedictine, 2 quarts
Apolinaris Spring Water, 2 dozen Maraschino Cherries,
No. 1 can pineapple, 1 orange, 1 lemon sliced thin in
                                                            *
quarters. Large piece of Ice in container. Mix all thorough-
ly, keep cold and serve with sprig of mint if desired. Use
glass cups.
               TODDIE BOWL (English)
  Take rind of 4 large lemons and put into bowl with one
pound of sifted sugar and a quart of cold water, let- it
soak for several hours or until flavored well. Take out
the rind and put in its place mixed fruits.      Mix all
thoroughly. Ten minutes before service add 1 quart aged
rum. Stir and Mix Good. ServE.•.
              CHAMPAGNE WINE PUNCH
  3 quart~ Champagne, 2 quarts Apollinaris water, 2 jig-
gers brandy, 2 lemons, 2 oranges sliced very thin, ~~ cup
crushed pineapple and juice, 2 doz. cherries and large piece
ice 1n bowl. Mix all thoroughly, serve in glass cups, de-
corate with sprig mint if desired.

                           -   38 -
           PINEAPLE MINT JULEP PUNCH
   Three quarts of sparkling Moselle Wine one pint of gin,
juice of six oranges, one Number two can of dicUI pine-
apple, serve in bowl juice and all, also two quarts of soda
water. Mix all and serve each cup with a sprig of mint,
also lay a dozen or mon. sprigs in mixture, sliced oranges
also, serve.


           GRENADINE ALCOHOLIC PUNCH
    ~2 pint Grenadine, 1 quart Brandy, ~2 pint of gin, 2
jiggers French Vermouth, 1 jigger lime juice, 1 jigger lemon
juice, 1 jigger orange juice, % · can of pineapple, diced,
'.Ind. 3 quarts of any water. (charged preferable) pieces of
ice m punch bowl, keep cold and serve in wine cups with
sprig of mint.


                  CHAMPAGNE PUNCH
  Pour one quart of Champagne into a punch bowl, add
to this two bottles of Soda or seltzer water, 1 jigger
Brandy, large piece of ice. Mix well, then add 4 barspoons
sugar. A little cucumber rind is considered an improve-
ment in the making of this cup, dress with fruits, (fresh
preferred).

             WHISKEY PUNCH (ENGLISH)
   Rub 4 large cubes of sugar upon the rind of thrtl;: lemons
till yellow disappears, add more sugar to. make a quaLtity
of six ounces, put this sugar into a bowl and squeeze upon
it the juice of two lemons and pour upon it a pint and a
half of boiling water, add one quart of good aged Whiskey,
also three quarts of imported soda Water, Garnish with
fresh mixed fruits and drop 6 or 8 clean sprigs of mint into
punch and stir. Ice.

                           -   39 -
                          DAISIES
  Serve Daisies in a Glass that contains, clean shaved Ice.
Aft er mixing Drink (don't use ice in mixing) pour into
Glass and theil! stir with Spoon. Fruits on top. Sprig of
Mint top also if desired. Serve.

                   CANADIAN DAISY
  Juice of *  a Lemon, 1 jigger imported Canadian Whis-
key, ~2 jigger Raspberry Syrup, Mix, serve in glass that
contains shaved ice, fruits on top.

                      CLUB DAISY
  2 jiggers Rhine Wine, juice of % a lime also juice of %
a lemon, % jigger of Grenadine syrup, mix, serve in glass
with shaved ice and fruits on top.

                     GORDON DAISY
   1 jigger gordon gin, juice of % lemon and ~2 lime, ~ 2
jigger raspberry syrup, mix, serve in glass with cleaned
shaved ice, fresh fruits on top.

                     LAUDER'S DAISY
   Juice of % lemon, juice*   lime, 1 jigger imported scotch
whiskey, % jigger of simple syrup, Mix, serve in glass
filled with shaved ice, Fruit on top, stir.

                   KENTUCKY DAISY
  1 jigger Kentucky Bourbon, ;2 juice of lime, % juice ot
lemon, % jigger of simple syrup, Mix, serve in glass filled
with clean shaved ice. Fruit on top, stir.

                       RUM DAISY
  1 jigger of rum, juice of   *  lime, ~2 jigger raspberry
syrup. Mix, serve in glass filled with clean shaved ice.

                         -IO-
                         JULEPS
   Wash Mint thoroughly. Keep in cool water always till
 ready to use. Fill Silvtr Goblet with clean shaved Ice.
 When Frost appears on Goblet, add teaspoon of Sugar.
 Stir extra well. Take four or five Sprigs of Mint, and
 pluck top leaves from same, they are best, place in Goblet.
 Then add Liquor desired. Stir. Serve with '2 Straw if
 desired.

                 QUEBEC MINT JULEP
   Make as directed, only use Canadian Whiskey. ·

                 IRISH MINT JULEP
  Use only imported Irish Whiskey and make as directed.

                SCOTCH MINT JULEP
  Use scotch Whiskey and make as dhected.

         HENNESSEY THREE S..TAR JULEP
Make as directed only use Hennessey's 3 Star only.

           OLD KENTUCKY MINT JULEP
  Make as directed, only use Kt'Iltucky Bourbon Whiskey.

                BRANDY MINT JULEP
  Make as directed, but use imported brandy.

                  GIN MINT JULEP
  Make as directed and use imported Gin.
                 RUM MINT JULEP
  Use imported rum and make as directed.
  Note:-Never crush or smash. Mint as then you have
a smash. .Above way is the correct and only way to make
Mint Julep. Smashes follow this recipe if you desire a
Smash.

                         -41-
                       SMASHES
  Mas)?. Top Leaves (they are tenderer and best) from
Four Sprigs of Mint with one teaspoon Sugar in Silver
Goblet or a Glass. Silver Goblet is best. Fill Goblet with
Shaved Ice and stir till sugar is dissolved. Then add
Liquor. Stir again. Serve with % a Straw.

                     GIN SMASH
  Make as directed above using Gin.

                      RUM SMASH
  Make as directed above using Rum.

                     IRISH SMASH
  Make a s directed above using Irish Whiskey.

                    SCOTCH SMASH
 Make as directed above using Scotch Whiskey.

              CANADIAN CLUB SMASH
 Make as directed in Mint Julep Smash but use imported
Canadian Club Whiskey.

                KENTUCKY SMASH
 Make as directed for Mint Julep Smash only substitute
Kentucky Bourbon Whiskey.

                   BRANDY SMASH
  Make as directed only u se Hennessey's Brandy.
  Note:-Old fashioned Glass can be u sed for service of
thi s Drink also.

                         -   42-
                         HOT DRINKS
                      TOM AND JERRY
    Use large bowl also Tom and Jerry Mugs. Arrange bowl
  on tray covered 'with clean napkins, place sprigs of ever-
  green, parsley or water cross around bowl on top of Napkin.
  On the Greens place fresh eggs all around. Arrange Mugs
  on another tray which is also covered with napkins. Have
  a silver spoon for mixing and serving, also barspoon handy
  for stiring in the mugs, also have nut meg or Cinnamon
  on the bar.                                              .
    Take one pint of Brandy, and one pint of Rum. . Mix
 both thoroughly, then take as many fresh eggs as is de-
 sired. Separate yolks from whites, add 1% barspoons sugar
 to each whole egg, beat and whip yolks and whites sepa-
 rately then put sugar in yolks, whip again, then mix
 whites with yolks, whip again add to the· mixture % to
 1 spoon of Bicarb of Soda, Whip again extra good.
    For servicing Tom and Jerry take a tablespoon of the
 liquid in bowl and pour one jigger of mixed liquor al-
 ready on hand, and mix with barspoon. Then fill mug
 with hot water, stir good and serve with small sweet
 crisp crackers two or three on plate. If desired place
whiskey glass and also mixed liquor and let guest help
himself, then pour in mixture also hot water and serve
with nutmeg or cinnamon. Stir Mixture in Bowl often so
it won't Break.
                      FRENCH COFFEE
    Boil 4 full cups of water, put one cup of ground coffee,
into percolator (dripper is best) and fill with boiling water.
Let drip. When through dripping it is ready for use.
Following are ways of serving:-
                       CAFE ROYALE
   1 jigger Whiskey mixed with one half cup of coffee.
                         DEMITASSE
   Small cup French made coffee.
                         HOT CLARET
   1 barspoon sugar, ~4 slice lemon, % glass Claret. Fill
glass with hot water, mix, serve.

                          -43 -
                         CAFE NOIR
    Use recipe for French Coffee precetding page and serve
 in Demitasse Cups. Sweeten with Sugar to taste. N o
 Cream.
                       CAFE AU LAIT
    % cup black coffee mixed with % cup boiling milk.
·sugar to taste.
                    BRANDY AND PEACH
    1 cube sugar, pour 1 jigger of brandy over sugar, light
 W·i th match, when out pour liquid over dried peach, then
 po1,1r ;2 jigger brandy mixed with hot water over peach,
 serve.
                     HOT SPICED RUM
    1 jigger Jamaica rum, 1 cube sugar, ;2 barspoon all-
 spice, mix with hot Water, serve with crushed lemon.
                HOT WHISKEY LEMONADE
    1 jigger whiskey, % jigger lemon ju\ce, 2 barspoon
 sugar, mix with hot water and serve, crushed lemon peel
 top.
                    RUM AND APRICOT
   1 cube sugar, pour 1 jigger rum over same, light with
match, when out pour over 1 apricot, then takv ; 2 jigger
 rum and mix with hot water pour over apricots, mix and
serve.
                      SCOTTY'S GROG
   1 jigger imported Scotch Whiskey, 1 barspoon sugar
 ;2 jigger lemon juice, mix with hot water and crushed
lemon on top.
             HOT ROCK AND RYE SPECIAL
  1 jigger rock and rye, ;:; jigger 3 Star Hennessey, Mix
and se:rve with Hot water. Rock and Rye Recipe this book.
                RIVER SHANNON GROG
  1 jigger imported Irish Whiskey, % jigger lemon juice,
2 barspoons sugar, mix with hot water, serve with crushed
lemon, sprig of mint.

                         -44-
                  NON-ALCOHOLIC DRINKS
                        JIORSES ·NECK
    I whole unbroken lemon peel. Insert 1 cube of ice in-
 side of peel. then fill glass with imported ginger ale.
                       HOLSTEIN COW
   ~2 glass cream, ~2 glass mil~, 1 jigger any s_weet syrup.
 Mix with cracked ice, serve with straw contamer.
                   MILK AND SELTZER
   1 glass (8 oz.} milk into lemonade glass fill remainder
 of glass with seltzer cube of ice, serve.
                      NECTAR FLOAT
   Place one scoop ice •cream in tall 'l!ilass, pour one jigger
 of grape juice over ice crt·am, then fill glass· with gingerale.
 Serve with spoon.
                        ORANGE TEA
   1 cup tea, 2 cups orange juice, % cup lemon juice, 1 cup
pinP.apple _'juice, 2 tablespoons sugar, Ice, Mix, serve in
pitchl"r with ice.
                BLACKBERRY CORDIAL
  1 cup blackberry juice, 'M cup black tea, ~8 teaspoon
cloves, H teaspoon allspice, 2 tablespoons sugar, ~ cup
water, Ice, Mix and serve in pitcher that contains a piece
of ice.
                       CHERRY MINT
  * orangf juice, ;4 strawberry JUiee, 1 jigger
      c~p                     c~~
lemon Juice, ;2 cup cherry JUICe, 2 tablespoons sugar,        ~2
cup water, several sprigs mint, ice, Mix, serve in pitcher.
                   LOGANBERRY FIZZ
   1 cup Loganberry juice, Juice of 2 lemons,      *
                                               cup pine-
apple juice, 2 jiggers simple syrup, 2 quarts of -charged
water. IcE!, Mix and serve from container with cubes of
ice in each glass. Fruit on top.

                           -45-
                      ORANGE ADE
   2 jiggers orange juice, 1 barspoon of sugar, 1 cup of
ice, stir with barspoon, serve with round orange slice,
Cherry and straw container.
                  PLAIN MILK SHAKE
  H pint, (8 oz. glass) milk, any flavor desired, Ice, Mix,
and serve· with straw container, nutmeg top if desired.
                 TEMPERANCE COCK TAIL
  Mix % cup juice of pineapple, 1 tablespon• of honey,
pinch _of salt and dash of lemon juice or (1 or 2 tablespoons
to suit,) Ice, Mix, serve in Cocktail glasses. Orange juice
may be added if preferred.
                   ICE CREAM SODAS
  Use any flavor desired, 1 jigger. One dipper of lee
Cream,_·~2 jigger pure cream, Fizz with seltzer, stir, leave
spoon m glass.
              SODAS AND FRESH FRUITS
   Place cube of Ice in lemonade glass use any flavor de-
sired of Soda Water, Ice, Mix, Serve with nutmeg.
                 FLORIDA ORANGEADE
  5 large oranges also 3 large lemons. Take out juice of
both, 1 cup sugar, 5 cups wat111", Ice, Mix and serve in
pitcher conta~ning ice for 8 ·or 9 guests.
                      CHERRY TEA
  2 cups cherry juice, ~ cup sugar, 2 cups black tea, 1
cup water, Ice, Mix, and serve in glass pitcher that con-
tains a piece of ice.
                   PINEAPPLE PUNCH
  1 No. 2 can pineappk diced and with iu1ce 2 oranges,
2 lemons sliced very thin, cubes of Pineapple very small,
add 2 quarts of Appolonaris Water, also 1 jigger simple
syrup, ·serve in Punch Bowl, Mix good, serve in punch cups,
keep cold always. Sprig of mint if desired, also mixed
fruits diced.

                          -46-
                       LEMONADES
          STANDARD RECIPE FOR LEMONADES
   Place fresh lemons in an oven for a few minutes until
 they become rather soft, then squeeze; take one jigger
 lemon juice or juice of one lemon, mix with one barspoon
 of sugar, add water and mix thoroughly with cracked ice.
 Rerve with Straw.
                    RUM LEMONADE
   1 jigger rum, .mix with basic recipe for lemonade p_o ur .
 into Lemonade glass and stir with soda water.
                BRANDY LEMONADEE
  1 jigger Brandy, mix with basic recipe for lemonade,
pour into lemonade glass, and mix with ginger ale.
               TORONTO LEMONADE
 Use Basic recipe and mix with one jigger Canadian
whiskey. Use lemonade glass and izz with seltzer.
               HOT LEMONADE WHISKEY
  1 jigger lemon juice, 2 barspoons sugar, 1 jigger whiskey.
Fill glass with hot water, mix and serve hot. Slice of lemon
on top.

                SCOTTY'S LEMONADE
  Use Basic Recipe for lemona de and mix with one jigger
Scotch whiskey, pour into lemonade glass, and fizz with
syphon seltzer.
                  GORDON LEMONADE
 Use basic r ecipe for lemonade and mix with one jigger
Gordon Gin, fizz with seltzer.
             LEMONADES WITH FRUITS
  Use basic recipe and fill with any water desired. Stir,
use lemonade glass. Serve with fresh fruits top.

                         -47-
             WHITE ROCK LEMONADE
  Use White Rock Water with basic Recipe.

             APPOLINARIS LEMONADE
 .use Appolinaris Water with Basic Recipe.

                SARATOGA LEMONADE
  Use Sara toga Water with Basic Recipe.

               POLAND LEMONADE
  Use Poland Water with Basic recipe.

              MT. SHASTA LEMONADE
  Use Mt. Shasta Water with Basic Recipe.

                 PORT WINE LEMONADE
 Use Basic Recipe with 1 ~2 jiggers port wine, then fizz
with sE.ltzer in lemonade glass. Stir and Serve.

                  MUSCATEL LEMONADE
  · use Basic recipe and 1 ~2 jiggers of Muscatel, Wine, then
fill lemonade glass with seltzer. Stir and Serve.

                   EGG LEMONADE
  1 fresh egg and use basic Recipe, and choice of any good
Spring water that is desire:d, mix extra well. Serve in
lemonade glass, lemon slice top. Strain before serving.

                   CREAM LEMONADE
   2 Teaspoons lemon juice, 6 tablespoons cream, 1 tea-
SJlOOn sugar, ;2 cup cold watE.T, add cream to cold water,
ll.en a dd sugar, Ice, Mix , then pour on lemon juice quickly
and mix a gain, strain. Serve.

                          -   48-
                      MISCELLANEOUS
                 ORANGE FLOWER WATER
    One half an ounce of orange flowers. Put them in a jug
  pour over them half a pint of boiling water, leave them
  for five minutes. Strain the tea and sweeten with honey
  or simple syrup. This recipe makes half a pint.
                       EGG CORDIAL
   Beat one egg extra good, then mix with one jigger
 Benedictine and ;2 jigger of fresh Cream, Ice, Mix, Strain,
 nutmeg top.
                  GOLDEN HORSE SHOE
   One egg yolk, 1 jigger cream, ;!! juke of lemon, -1 pony
 of yellow chartreuse, 1 barspoon sugar, ice, mix, strain
 into lemonade glass and fill with imported soda water,
 cherry orange and lemon slice top, stir before serving.
             CURE OF A BAD HEADACHE
   Take 2 large thin glasses, put one or two barspoons
bromo seltzer into> one glass, fill other half full of seltzer
then pour one to tlie other sevt'ral times then serve. Or
else one or two grains of Aspirin. Water chaser.              •
                        MARY ANN
  1 jigger Irish Whiskey, ·; 2 Barspoon sugar, juice of ;2
lemon.    Ice, ser:ve with soda water in lemonade glass
with cube of ice, stir, mint top.
                        ·LORENZO
   1 jigger Apricot Brandy, ~ juice of lime, 1 dash of
Absinthe, 1 jigger orange juice or juice of one orange, Mix,
Ice and strain into lemonade glass, fill with soda water,
stir, serve orange and lemon slice top.
                     MARIE LOUISE
  ~~ice of ~ a lim~, juice of ~. a lemon, 2 barspoons sugar,
I Jigger of Canadian club whiskey, Ice, Mix, strain into
Collins glass and fill with ginger ale, Cherry and slice
orange top.
                         -49-
                 MORNING'S MORNING
  1 drink of whiskey with chaser.
                                First drink in the
morning.
                       NIGHT CAP
 · 1 drink whiskey served before departure or closing of
bar.
                     MICKEY FINN
  1 jigger Irish Whiskey, juice of
for a chaser.
                                     * lime, Soda Water
                        SPEEDY GIRL
  One jigger of Canadian Club Whiskey, juice of one
whole lemon, 2 barspoons of sugar juice of ·; 2 an orange,
Ice, Mi.ii:, serve with crushed lemon top, also fruits in an
old fashioned gia.ss.
                   MAMIE TAYLOR
  One tall thin glass. Fill with cracked ice. Pour into
glass one Jigger and a half Scotch Whiskey (imported)
Fill with imported Ginger Ale and stir good. Serve.
                    CANADIAN. ROSE ·
  1 jigger Canadian Whiskey, juice of ~2 orange,   *  jigger
Grenadine, Ice, ·Mix, serve in Lemonade glass and fill with
soda water, stir, cherry on top.
                      PALM BEACH
sugar, ju1ce of ;2 lime,  *
  White of one egg, 1 jigger Holland Dry Gin, 1 barspoon
                            jigger Cream, Ice, Mix, Serve
with Appolinaris, Stir, orange ancl cherry top.
                     SHERRY AND EGG
   Glass ofj Sherry, Raw Egg top, serve with Salt if desired.
                 SHERRY AND BITTERS
   Glass sherry wine, 1 dash of orange or Angostura Bitters.
                SHERRY AND ORANGE
  l jigger orange juice mixed with sherry, slice of orange
OD top.

                           -   50-
                     NECTAR (Liqu·eur)
    Take t wo pounds of chopped Raisins, four pounds of
 cube sugar and t wo gallons of bo"iling water, Mix all, stir
 frequ ently till water is cold, then· add t wo sliced lemons
 and three pints of proof spirit brandy or rum, macerate
 in a closed vessel for six or seven days then strain, set
 the liqueur in cool place for a week then bottle.
                    CURACAO CORDIAL
   ~    pound of the thin rind of oranges (no white)· pour
 over it 1 pine of boiling water when cool add 2 quarts
 Brandy, let it stand 10 day s, stir everyday. Make a
 clarified syrup, 2 pounds sifted sugar, 1 pint water, add
 this to the brandy and etc. Line a . funnel with piece of
 muslin and that with chemist flltering pap-er, run through
 twice or three times till it is bright. Bottle.
                    LEMON BRANDY
 Thin rind yellow (no white) of 2;f lemons, cover them
with brandy, let stand one night, then strain through clean
white cloth add 2;2 ounches powdered sugar dissolved in
water. Then bottle.
                  ORANGEADE (Liqueur)
  Pour one quart of Brandy over the thin rind (no white)
and strain juice· of 4 oranges, (large) cover liquor closely.
Leave it in a warm place for six weeks. Shake E.very day.
At the end of six weeks filt er it thru muslin and put into
small bottles.
  Note:-This is unsweetened, add sugar to sweeten t aste
when desired.
                   WHISKEY CORDIAL
   Take rind of a fre sh lemon free from the white, put
Into jar with ~f pint of ripe white currants (no stems)
piece of whole ginger size of bean. Pour over these in-
gredients one quart whisk ey, let stand 24 hours, then strain
and sweeten with % pound of loaf sugar, let it stand 12
hours. Then bottle.

                          -51 -
                  ANISEED CORDIAL
 One Pint simple syrup, 1 pint brandy, 25 drops aniseed,
mix well, bottle.
                 ANGELICA RATAFIA
  2 quarts Brandy, ~2 pint of Water, 2 pounds of powdered
sugar, 6 cloves, dash cinnamon, leave in crock coverE.il
with cloth 8 weeks, then strain, keep cold, and use when
desired, bottle.
                       SLOE GIN
  Chop a quarter of an ounce of bitter almonds very fine,
and crush three quarters of a pound of sugar candy, take
two pounds of Sloes bruised or crushed, one quart Old Tom
Gin and a quarter pound of sugar, put all into small
crock, stir thoroughly and strain and bottle in 90 days.
                         KOUMISS
   Koumiss is fermented Mare's milk. It is a favorite
drink among the Nomadic Tribes of Siberia and Chinese
Tartary. A good substitute for it is made from cow's milk,
and is also highly recommended as an article of diet foJ
the sick. ·ilt is made as follows :-Dissolve a pennyvforth·
of fresh yeast in a little water and mix it with a quart
of fresh; milk and a tablespoon of sugar, put the mixture
into champagne bottles, cork them down and wire them.
Shake the bottles good for a minute to mix all ingredients
thoroughly, then place them on end in a cool place to
ferment slowly, after three day s lay the bottles on their
sides, turn them occasionally. In five days it will be at its
best, but it will keep for an indefinite time in a re-
frigerator.
                    NOYEAU (Liqueur)
   Blanche and. pound 3 ounces of bitter and one of Sweet
almonds. Put them into a jar, pour over them one quart
of pure brandy or whiskey, leave them for three days.
Shake them now and then. Strain liquid carefully through
filtering paper and then add one pound of cube sugar di s-
solved in half a pint of boiling wa ter and two tablespoons
of fine honey. Bottle.

                          -   52-
                    APRICOT BRANDY
   Put good sound pitted apricots into pot . with water to
 cover, boil till tender, then remove the skins to e.ach
 pound apricots, 1 pound loaf sugar, and wine glassful of
 water, boil sugar and pour over Apricots, let it stand 24
 hours, then bottle, older it is the better.
                      ORANGE GIN
   Rind of three oranges (no whites) and ;2 lemon rind
 (no whites) put it into a jar with a quart of gin, three
 quarters of a pound barley, sugar crushed to powder and
 the strained juice of the fruit cover. Jar tightly and
 leave it for three weITT!:s, shake every three days after
 wards. Strain into bottles, Cork and store. Gin improves
 with keeping.                         ·
                   SWEET ADELINE
  Fill lemonade glass half full clean shaved ice add ~2
barspoon sugar, ;2 juice of lemon, ;2 juice of orange, fill
with Burgundy Wine, fresh fruits top.
                    SARATOGA GIRL
  1 jigger Brandy juice of one lime, % barspoon sugar, 1
pony pineapple juice, 2 dashes yellow Chartruese, Mix Ice,
Strain and fill with Saratoga water, cube of ice.
                     YANKEE GRIT
  1 jigger Kentucky Bourbon, ;2 jigger Creme de Menthe,
Sprig of mint top. Serve in Collins Glass imported Soda
Water top, stir, Cube of ice in z!ass.
                    QUEEN OF SPADES
   Two jigge.rs Claret, juice of % a lime, dash of raspberry
syrup, ice, mix and serve in Collins glass; imported ginger
Ale top, also Fresh fruits.
                        LUCKY ROSE
   l/3 jigger Creme de Menthe, 1/ 3 jigger of Brandy, 1/ 3
jigger Rum, 1 harspoon sugar, 1 jigger fresh cream, ice,
mix, serve with soda Water, fruit top.

                          -   53-
                      EYE OPENER
   First Drink of the day usually Gin or Whiskey with a .
 chaser.

                        ROCK AND RYE
   Good for a very bad cold. 1 pound rock Candy or one
 cup of simple syrup t o one quart of Rum, S~otch or
 Bra,nd, Choice of one. Break Candy up and put it in con-
 tainer with Strained Juice of • 3 Lemons and rind of
 lemon cut extremely small, shake and leave stand 48 hours.
                                                           *
 Add a littlE.· simple syrup if desired to thicken or sweeten,
 74 can crushed pineapple if desider also juice of 1 lemon,
 mix all good and put in cool place tightly covered.

                RHINE WINE AND SELTZER
   Fill glass half full with rhine wine other    *
                                               full with
 Seltzer from syphon, Cube ice in glass stir thoroughly,
 lemon peel top if desired.

                      PLEASANT GIRL
   Juice of
 ~!?
            *  a lemon, 1 fresh egg, 1 jigger Bacardi Rum,
    a jigger syrup, Ice, Mix, and serve in lemonadE.• glass
 with cold white rock water, also cube ice, cherry, Orange,
 Pineapple, Lemon on top.

            QUICK CURE FOR INTOXICATION
   % glass of water containing heaping teaspoon Bicarb
 of Soda. Stir before serving, then Drink contents of glass.
 Wait four minutes then induce vomitting with fingers of
 right hand down throat and coughing very heavy. When
 Stomach is Cleansed take juice of one lemon mixed with
 74 spoon salt. Gargle: and rinse mouth and throat, cold
 water after. Tlien drink a cup of black coffe, no cream
 or sugar. Give a whiff of ammonia to clear head, if desired.

                           -   54-



                                                 I
~~~-----------~~---- -
                  LILLIAN WAGNER
  Mix well one whit e of egg and one barspoon lemon juice,
1 jigger gin, 1 jigger Cream, bar spoon sugar, Ice, Mix
and serve with soda water, stir. A cherry, slice o1 orange
and sprig mint on top.
                     KISS IN THE DARK
   Juice of ; 2 a lime, 1/3 jigger Brandy, 1/ 3 jigger rum,
1/3 jigger r a spberry syrup. Ice, Mix, serve with gingeral e
cherry on top.
                    COSTERS DREAM
  1 nip dogs head bass AIE:, 1 nip of McGuinness Stout,
Pour contents of both bottles while cold at the same t ime
into very very large beergoblet, then fill with draught
Beer.
                    POUSSE CAFE NO. 1
  1/ 5 raspbt'rry syrup, 1/ 5 Maraschino, 1/ 5 Creme de Men-
the (Green), 1/ 5 Curaca.o Brown, 1/ 5 Yellow Chartreuse.
Serve in pousse cafe glass.
                  POUSSE CAFE NO. 2
  1/5 .Grenadine Sy rup, 1/ 5 Creme Yvette, 1/ 5 Green
Chartreuse, 1/ 5 Cogna c, 1/ 5 Anisette. Serve in Pousse
Cafe Glass.
                 WHISKEY STRAIGHT
 Any drink of whiskey with Chaser if asked for.
                       SUISSESS
   One white of an egg, ;4 jigger of Anisette, ?4 jigger
white absinthe, Barspoon sugar, Ice, Mix, Strain into glass,
fizz if desired.
                RACE TRACK SPECIAL
 1 jigger Bourbon Whiskey , ;i; jigger French Vermouth,
l barspoon sugar, juice of ; 2 a lemon, Ice, Mix, serve with
rube of ice, Ginger Ale. Sprig mint, cherry on top.

                         -55-
                     GINGER BEER
  Take rind of 4 lemons thinly peeled (no whites) put in
large earthenware pan or pot with strained juice of lemons,
2 ounces crushed sugar, ~2 ounce of Cream of Tartar,
Pout over these ingrediE:ftts, 2* gallons of boiling water,
and when luke warm add I cake of fresh yeast, stir all,
let ferment until the next day. Skim yeast from top,
pour the beer and Strain through muslin or thicker cloth
and bottle. It will be ready in 5 days.

                      ROSIE O'GRADY
  % jigger Italian Vermouth,   *    jigger of Bourbon Whis-
key, 2 da.s hes orange bitters, 2 dashes absinthe. In claret
glass soda water top Twist lemon peel, orange, cherry and
piece of pineapple on top.
  Jigger, a me.asure or container used in measuring liquids
for making drinks.
  Pony, A glass used for Liqueurs or Cordials.
  Growler, A can or container used for purchasing Draught
beer.
                        SUISETTE
  % jigger Brandy, % jigger of Italian Vermouth, 1 Bar-
spoon sugar, 3 dashes absinthe, % jigger lemon juice, Ice,
Mix and serve with seltzer.
                      YANKEE BOY
  1 jigger Brandy Hennessey's,    ~2 jigger ora nge JU1ce,
spoon lemon juice, 1 barspoon of sugar, Ice, Mix and serve
with Soda Water in lemonade glass that contains cube of
ice, cherry top.
                      BRANDY FLOAT
  Fill Pony Glass with 3 Star Hennessey Brandy. Then
put Whiskf.'.Y glass over the top and reverse glasses. Hold
tight so brandy won't le11k out. Then set down and fill
with seltzer, take out pony gently.
                          -56-
                       CONEY ISLE 19
   ~4   cream top, 74 Absinthe, 74Curacao,   * Chartreuse.
                    FORGETMENOT 27
   1/5 Chartreuse, 1/ 5 Maraschino, 1/ 5 Brandy, 1/ 5 Cream
 Top, 1/ 5 Curacao.
                     SWEET MARIE 92
   1/ 5 Cream top, 1/ 5 Benedictine, 1/ 5 Curacao, 1/5 Brandy,
1/ 5 Chartreuse.
                     DIAMOND LIL 20
  1/ 5 Grenadine, 1/ 5 Curacao, 1/ 5 Rum, 1/ 5 Absinthe, 1/5
Creme Yvette.                                  '

  * benedictine, * Chartreuse,
                     MILADY 53
                               74 cream top; 74 absinthe.
                   ASTORIA QUEEN 90
  ~4  jigger cream top, ;4 jigger maraschino, ;4 jigger
curacao, ~4 jigger Brandy.      .
                  ANGOSTURA BITTERS
  Mix! 3 fl. oz. Angostura wine bitters with one gallon of
pure good aged Sherry Wine, add 2 fl. oz. Glycerine C. P.
mix thoroughly. These bitters contain over 15 different
herbs, spices, etc. (Buy Glycerine and Bitters at any
prescription drug store.)
              DAMIANA WINE BITTERS
  Mix one gallon of Sherry wine with 4 fl. oz. Damiana
wine bitters. Mix thoroughly, keep cold always.
                    ORANGE BITTERS
  Mix 4 fl. oz. of aromatic extract with one gallon of
white bordeaux wine and 2 oz. Glyerine C. P. Little more
ora nge bitter can be added if desired.
                SWEET ORANGE BITTERS
  Simple syrup one quart, ; 2 oz. of Citric acid, 2 fl. oz.
soluble bitter orange essence, ~2 fl. oz. liquid Saffron. Mix
and keep cold.

                          -   57-
                         CURE BAD COLDS
      1 jigger Ro ck and Rye, % jigger Good Rum of Whiskey,
  Mix with little hot water and juice of ;;? a lemon and
  stir. Then t ake hot bath and retire to bed.
                CURE BAD COLDS FOR CHILDREN
      Dilute Rock a nd Rye at least half and fill glass with
   hot water and little lemon juice, Take Bath, (hot) and re-
   tire to bed.
                             TIT FLOAT
       Pony of Curacao, whip LTeam top. Small red cherry
   center.
                         MAIDEN'S DREAM
       g4 Jigger benedictine, whipped cream, float on top.
                            SWEET BABY
       1 jigger Brandy, 1 white: of egg, % spoon sugar, Ice,
.. Mix, Strain into Glass and Fizz with Siphon.
                           PRINCE GEORGE
       1 Jigger Benedictine, % a limt·, fizz with Seltzer.
                            JERSEY LILY
       1 Jigger Benedictine Whiskey, 2 dashes Orange BitteTS.
   Seltzer for chaser.
                   WHISKEY LEMONADE FLOAT
       Plaim Lemonade. Float Jigger of Whisk ey on top. Serve.
      -                      IRISH ROSE
       Jigger imported Irish whiskey, 4 dashes grenadine syrup.
   Charge with Seltzer.
                          POUSSE L'AMOUR
     . 1/ 3 Jigger Maraschino· syrup, 1 yolk of egg, 1/ 3 Jigger
   benedictine, l /~ Jigger brandy, Ice, Mix, Strain and Serve.
                               FRAPPE
       Ice: frozen to the consistencey of mu sh .
                        LIMEADE
    Make same as lemonade this book. Use limes instead.
                ANGOSTURA GINGER ALE
    Glass Ginger Ale, 3 dashes of Angostura Bitters.

                             -   68-
                       LONG BEACH
   1 jigger Sloe Gin, 1 Barspoon Sugar, 1 white of one egg,
ice, Mix, se!rve with cube of ice in glass, leman rind top,
also cherry, and Soda water, stir.
                    ARGENTINE ROSE
   %, jigger Bourbon, 1 jigger Maderia Wine, 1 barspoon
sugar, Ice, Mix, Strain a:nd serve with Soda Water and
cube of ice.

  1 jigger Gordon Gin,    *
                  QUEEN ALEXANDER
                              barspoon sugar, % 1u1ce of
LElmon, white of one e~g. Ice, shake, serve with soda water
m lemonade glass.

  *                   ROLLS ROYCE
      jigger lemon juice, 1 jigger gin, ~2 jigger Grenadine,
ice, mix, serve with ginger ale, stir, fruit top.
                    PRINCE OF PILSEN
  2 jiggers rhine wine, 1 dash orange bitters, orange and
lemon slice top, 1 barspoon of sugar serve with syphon
seltzer, stir, cube ice in glass.
                     MAIDEN BLUSH
  1/ 5 Anisetee, 1/ 5 green chartreuse, 1/ 5 Cognac, 1/ 5
Creme Yvette, 1/ 5 Absinthe in Pousse Cafe Glass.
                      MEADOW LARK
  1/ 3 jigger imported Irish Whiskey, 1/ 3 jigger Ra.spberry
syrup, 1/ 3 jigger of imported rum, Ice, Mix, serve m cock-
tail glass with a crushed lemon rind top.
                       SHADY NOOK
  M jigger Raspberr syrup, M jigger Cognac, ~4 jigger ab-
sinthe, M jigger Chartruese.
                     SWEET DREAMS
   Juice of ~2 an orange, 1 BarspOO'Il of sugar, pour into
Claret glass and fill with Claret, stir, with small piece of
ice in glass, fruit.

                         -59-
                                       Index
                                       Page                                                Page
                  BEER                             She rry .................. ................. lZ
Barn Yard Cocktail ···-·-                    6     Countess ...................... ......... l 3
Bee r Flip Punch ············-               6     Carus o ·········-··········-············· 1 3
Beer Glass each Jreg. _                      5     Albany ··········-·······-·······-······ 1 3
Bee r Measure - ········· -····              5     Club - ·····-·······-·········--······· ·- 13
Bee r San_garee · · - - - - -                5     M edina h •.................... ····-····· 13
Beer income Pl?r k eg. _                     5     Bobbie Burns ..................... 13
Beer Bottled --··--··-··- -···-              4     Frisco ·······-······- ········-··········· J 3
Beer Mulled ----···-···-------               7     D enver - ······-··············--······ 13
B eer Pressure ------·············           4     Castle .................. ················-· 14
Bee r Nh-:ht Cap ···········-···-            6     Society .......... ···············- ··-····· 1 i
B eer Coll Box ····-········· --
Beer Punch ···-·····--··--···- ···-
                                             4
                                             6
                                                   ~:~!~~k~....::::::::.:::·:::::::::::::::: }:
                                                   Sour .......................... . ············- t4
Halt and Half ············-·····             6 •   Knicke rbocke r ........ .............. l 4
Ale     ····--·······-···-·····--- ---       4     Chicago ........................      h • ••••• • 14
Porter ···- ············- ······-········    5     J ack s ........................... ........ H
Stout ·······-·················-···-··-      5     Lillian's .............. ................... 14
Importe d Wines ···········-··-              7     D a ddy' s .............. .................... J fi
U. S. A. Win es ···········-···-             8
         WINE RECIPES                               Queen's ····················' ······-·--·· 15
Cham pagne .......................... 8            A s tor -············-··············--··-- 15
                                                   Harva r d ·······-··· ·················--- 1 5
Mulberry ······················-······· 8          Y a le .......................................... 15
Gooseberry ···················- ······· 9          Prohibition ···············-·---·--· 1 5
Plum ·---····-···-··-·····- ······-- 9             Sween e y' s ·················-··········· 15
Cherry ····························-······ 9        California .............................. 15
R aspbe rry ··-··-····-················ 9          Cuban ...................................... 15
Aprico t .................................... 10    Absinth e ........... ..................... 15
Claret (Mulle d) .................. 10                              COOLERS
Strawberry - ····-··················· 10           Qu een's .......... .....                         16
Elderberry ............................ l O        Kentucky ........ ...... ............... 16
Wine Measu r e .................... 10             Winnipe g ....... . ................... 16
Alcohol in Wines -······· ...... 11                Richmond ........ ..................... 16
Se rvice of Wines ................ 11              Casey' s ... ... .. ..... ...... ............... 16
yYin e ~urs~s ...................... 11             Esltimo .. ............................... 1 6
Jigger    eanmg- .................... 12           Ginger Ale ......................... . . 16
            COCK TAILS                             Sarsa parilla .......................... 16
M a h a tta n ·············-················· 12   Pinea ppl e .......... ... .. ........... .. 1 7
M a rtini ···········-···················· . 12    Straw b e rr~'     ... ...... ............ ...... 17
Martin! Dry ···········-··· ..... .... l 2         C a hfornia .............................. 17
Dubbonnet ........................ ... 12          Sunny Boy ............... ........... 17
Bronx Dry -········ ·················· 12          Atlantic City --···········--··-·- 17
Bronx ........ - ·····- · - ·· ·········- 12       .Asbury Park ···- ···--- -···- - 17
Old Fashioned .................... 13              Hot Springs ···--·--···· - · - 17
                                 Page                                                          Page
North Pole -·-······-··-· ··········· 17               Gin -··---- -·····-··········-······--· 23
Quebec - -··-··- ······-···-·--- 17                    Canadian ····-·········-··············· 23
               EGGNOGS                                 London ·····-··- ·····-··-··-······- ~
Hennessey's --·-·······-····-··- 18                    McGregor's - ·- ··--- ·········- 23
Cockney -------·····-·-···------ 18                    American B eauty ·····-······- 23
Egg Nog tor 25 ···············- 18                     ABtorla - ···--··········--·····--·- 23
Non Alcoholic -·················-- 18                  Jamaica. -··-············-···········- 23
Rye - - - --·- ····-·-···········- 18                  Silver - - --·-··-·················-· ···-- 23
St. Croix ·····--·-·········----- 18                                       CUPS
Cuban - ····-----·····-······· .. _ 18                 ChaJilpagne    ···--·-········--······-     24
Brandy ··········-···-··················· 19           Champagne ·--·-··-·-··-·--···- 24
English --·-···-······-···-··-··-····- 19              Hollywood -··-··-·--·-····-··· 24
K e ntucky -··········-·····-···-·······- 19           Moselle -------·········--··········- 24
Old Fashioned ·········-······--- 19                   Burgundy --······-···--······--· 24
Irish --·--··-······-·······················- 19       G inger Ale ........ ·- ~·- · · · · ·····-- 2:;
Scotch ---- ---··-····-----·-··-···--·- 19             Rhine ···- ····---··············· ....- 2~
Jamaica. --·--················-··--- 19                Broadway ................ ············-· 25
Canadian ................................ 19           Waldorf ..:..---···-···············- 25
                   FLIPS                               H eldelber.g ···-··-····:. . ·········- 25
                                                       Hebes -···················· ... ·······-·. 2:;
~~~tc~ ___:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::= ~g                          RICKEYS



                                                       J]f~~~~;~~ :-:~ jj
Johnn:v Walker .................... 20
Egg Hot ---·-····---····--···-····- 20
Jamaica -·····-··········-········---- 20
Bourbon . ···························---· 20
Kentucky ···············-······-······· 20
Sadie's - -·······-···-·······.. ·····- 20             Brandy - ···-·········· . . ·· ······-··- 26
Sloe Gin - ·········-··············- ····· 20
Irish ... - ········-·-··- ··········-··· 21           Rye - -······-··········-··················· 26
                                                       Gin or Rye Buck .............. 26
Cofl'ee ·····-·-······························· 21                 HIGH BALLS
Holland Gin .......................... 21
Claret --····························--···· 21         S cotch ...................................... ~7
Brandy -···························-······ 21          Ca n adian ······-·················· ...... 27
Port Wine ·············-·--··-·······- 21              Holland '----·-························· 27
Sherry ---·········-······-·······--- 21
Three Star ............................ 21             ~~~d::... =:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: g
Rum ·······-················· ··········· - _ 21       H enn essey' s .................. ........ 27
Old Timer s ··-························· 21            Johnny Walker ···············-·· 27
                   FIZZES                              Old Crow -·························-- 27
Dry Gin -····-················. ......... 22           Dublin -············· .................... 27
New Orlean s ···········-·········- 22                 London ···-········· ............ ··- ···· 27
Claret ................ - ····· .. ···-··-····· 22     Comb in a tion . .. ............. ........ 27
Roya.I ......................... ............... 22    Rye ·-············ ········-·················· ll7
                                                       Bourbon ····- . .. .......... ........... 27
Sloe Gin ···-···············-··········· 22            Sloe Gin ......... ....... ···············- 27
Golden ·······-··-···············-·-····· 22
Kentucky ·······················-···- 22                             • SLINGS
Tavem -·················-··············· 22            Three Star ·········-···········- --- 28
Ritz ···································-··-· 2.3      Lake Loui se ........ ·············-·- 28

                                              -       61-
                                        P a ge                                                    Page
Bacardi - -·······-.· ······················ 28                          SYRUPS
Holla nd - - ···········-······- ····-- %8              Simpl e Syrup ··············----· ··-· 34
Bourb0n ........ · ···-··················- 28           Fruits and Juices .............. 34
Gin Sling --·····-····················· 28              M a raschino ······· -·····-··········-·· 34
                COBBLERS                                Cre m e d e Me n t h e .............. 35
S a ute rne ··-············ ........... __ 29           Grenadine ····-······ ---- ······--- 35
Gin • ··-···-- ·- ·········-······ --··-······· 29      Vanilla ................ ········- ·········· 35
Muiscatel ········ -············--·· ···-··-· 29        Chocola t e ....... .. ·····-············ - 35
Rhine ----·····- ········-· - ... ... ...... 2 ~        Colored ····-···-···- ···-··· -··- ......... 35
Irish - ---·-----··················-····- 29                            PUNCHES
K e ntuc ky ·····················-··- -· ·- 29          Punch es 1 ···---····················- 36
Mosell e ------··············-·······-···· 30
Cana dia n - - ······················ 30                ~~~~: ~ :=:::::::::::::::::=:: ~~
S c otc h :-. ..---····-···············- 30             W assail M e aning ·········- - 36
She rry ········- ····-·- ··-··········· 30             1ih"!3sall Bowl --·······-·······--- 37
Port ···········- ···-························ 30




                                                        fi~fl~~;~1; ;~~ II
 Rum ··- ··•··-··-·····················- 30
 Whi s k e y ------- ········-·············· 30
                    SOURS
G in -················-········-·········-····· 31
Can adia n --·- ·············-············· 31
W e e L as s ie ··············· ····- ----···· 31
vVh is k e Y ·······--·- ····················· 31
Louis.v ille ----·······················- 31              m ea p p le Jul e p ·· -- ·······-····- 39

                                                        ~~~~~~-: ::~:::::::::: : : ~::::::::: H
Sl oe G in ................................ 31
J a m a ica - ··········-·····-- ··-······-···· 31
Silve r ........................................ 31
St. R egis ······-····-·--················ 31                 DAISIES
APPi e J a ck ·······-···--·-·········- 31              Can a dia n        ······--· ··········-····- - 40
Golde n ···········-·······················- 31         Club ............................... ·······- 40
                 TODDIES                                Gord on ···- ······················-······· 40
Hot Rum ·····-····--· ·················· 32
A pple ........................................ 32
                                                        ic~~~~~~y ·::~~:~::::::·_:::::·.·_:::·.: ::::~ :~
J amai ca ············-·-·········-·········· 32        Rum ······································-·· 4Q
Kentu c ky ·······-········--·-·······- 32              Jul e p ··························--··--········ 41
Loui s ville ······························- 32         Qu ebec ·--- ·-········-········-········· 41
Michae l' s ----·······················- 32                               JULEPS
Cana dia n - -········-···········-··- 32               Irish ---------··- ··- ····-·-···········- 41
Apricot ·-- ······························· 32          S co tch ----··- ·········-····-·······-···- 41
                 COLLINS                                H e nn essey ·········-······-···········- 41
                                                        Ken t u c kY .............................. 41
Tom Collins ························- 33                Bra ndy ···············-·················- 41
Annie Collins ···················· - 33
D a ddy Collin s .................... 33                Gin ··········-··························-······ 41
                                                        Rum ................................,. ........ 41
Mickey Collins ··················- 33                                   SMASHES
Sandy Collin s ............•........ 33
Jose ph Collins ----··········- 33                      Gin ···············--·-····················- · 42
Johnny C ol1ln s .................... 33                Rum ·······-···-·········-······-········- 42

                                              -       8!1-·
                                    Page                                    Pag·e
Irish ···-·····---····--··-·-···- 42          Cherry Mint --······- ·····-···- 45
Scotch ····-··-·· _-·· ·-··-·····-- 42        Loganberry Fizz ·············- 45
Can adian ····················-········· 42   Orangeade ······-······--·-···---· ----- 40
Kentucky ·-·- --·············-- 42            Plain Milk Shake .............. 46
Brandy ···-···-··-··-··- ··-- 42              T emperance Coclttail ····- 46
          HOT DRINKS                          Ic-e C r eam Sodas ................ 46
                                              Sodas and Fres h Fruit .... 46
Tom and J e rry ···--····-···-- 43            Florida Orangead e ............ 46
French Col'f.ee ··-········ · -- 43           Cherry T ea - ··· -············ -- 46
Cafe Royal ··-························ 43     PlneaPPle Ptmch ................ 16
Demitasse --···-·-·············- ··· 43                  LEMONADES
Hot Claret ··--···-······-··- 43              Standard Recipe ··········' -··· 47
Cafe Noir ---··-······-······-···- 44
Cafe Au Lait ··-··-··- ··-- 44                Rum ···-··---·····-··········-··· 47
Brandy a nd Peach ···-··-··· 44               Brandy -··--··-···········-······· 47
Hot Spiced Rum ·······-··- ··· 44             'l'or0nto ·-·· ..:...... ·········-······· 47
Whiskey Lemonade ··-···- 44                   Hot Lemonade (Whi k ey ) 47
Rum and Apricot .............. 44             Scotty's - ····--······-············· 47
Scotty's Grog ··············-···· 44          Gordon ·-······· -·· ···· · ···········-··· 47
Hot Roclt a nd R ye ···-··-··· 44             Fruit lJemonarles ................ 47
River Shannon ············ ···-· 44           White -·······-·························· 48
NON ALCOHOLIC DRINKS                          ApoJJi11ar1s -························· 48
                                              Sa ratoga ·································- 48
Horses Neck ··-··············-···· 45         Poland ···- - ,·····-··········· ·····-··- 1S
Holstein Cow ···-·········-···- 45            Mt. · Sho.sla .................... .... 48
Millt a nd Seltzer ·········--·· 45           Port --··········-········-·······......... 4 8
N ectar Float ···-··············-··· 45       Muscatel - -··························· 48
Orange T ea ·······-·········'····- 45        Egg ···-··--···-··· ·················-···· 43
Bl a ckberry Cordial ............ 45          Cream --·- ····················'·-····· 48

                               MISCELLANEOUS
                                     P age                                         Page
Apricot Brandy - ·········--- 53              Egg Cordial ··················-···-· 49
Astoria Queen ······-·········- · 57          Eye Open er ·-·-···········--··· 54
Angostura Bitters ···-········· 57            Forgetmenot ····-···················· 57
Angostura Ginge r Ale ····- 58                FraPPee ···-··-··············-···-···· 58
Anis-eed (Cordial) ········-·- 52             Ginge r Beer ···-··-····-············ 56
Angelica Ratafia ··········-··· 62            Golden Hor seshoe -······--· 49
Argentine Rose ·······-········- 59           Growler ···-··-··-········-·········-- 56
Brandy Float ·······-········-···- 56         H eadache Cure ·······-·····-··· 49
Canadian Rose ·············- - 50             [risll Rose ... ·····················-·· 59
Curacao (Cordia.IJ ··········- 51             Into:rl cation Cure ·····-······· 54
Cos1:ers Dream ···········-···- 65            Jigger meaning of ···-··-··· 56
Coney I sle - ················- - 67          Jersey Lily ···-···················- 58
Cold Cu re ······················- ···- 58    Kiss In the D ark .............. 55
Colds , Children ··········· ·····- - 68      Koumiss ········-·········-··········- 52
Diamond Lil ···--·······-- - 67               Long B each ·-····-··-··- ········· 59
Damiana Bitte r s ·········-- 67              Lim eade -·······················- ···-- 58

                                        -es-
                                             Page                                            Page
 Lillian W a gne r ················- 55                Race Track ···········-·········- 55
 Lucky Rose .......................... 53              Rhine Wine and S e ltzer .. 54
 I;orenzo .................................... 49      Rock and Rye ·······-··-······· 54
 Lem o n Bra ndy .:.................. 51               Rolls Royce .......................... 59
 Mary Ann .............................. 49            Rosie O'Gra d y ...................... 56
 Marie Loui se ........................ 49             Saratoga Girl ...................... 53
 Mam ie T ayle r .................... 50               Sherry and E gg ···- ············· 50
.Mornings Mornin g ............ 50                     Sherry and Bitte r s ............ 50
 Maid e ns Drea m ................... 58               Sherry and Oran ge ............ 50
 Mea dow L a rk ...................... 59              Shady Nook ···-···········--······ 59
 M ilady ...................................... 57     Speedy Girl .......:... :............ - 50
 Mickey Finn ........................ 50               Sloe Gin ········-························ G2
 Maiden Blus h ........... .!.. .... _. 59             Sulssess ····--·········-·············- 55
 Nlg)lt C a p ................ ........... - 50        Sulsette ···-··-··················· - 56
 Nec t a r ···································- 51     Sweet Adeline - ·················· 53
 Noyeau ··- ······························ 52          Swee t M.arie ····-·····- --··-··· 57
 Orang e Bitters ····················- 57              Swe et B a by ········- - - - - - 58
 Ora n geade (Liqu e ur J ······- 51                   Sweet Dreams ...................... 69
 Ora n g e Flowe r W a t er ····- 49                   Sweet Ora n ge B itte r s ···-· 57
 Ora nge Gin ............................ o3           Tit Float ··-··-······················· 58
 Pause L'Amour ···············- 59                     Queen of Spa d es ................ 53
 Pou s se Cafe 1 .................... 55               Qu een Al exandria ···- ······- 59
 Pousse C a fe 2 ···················- 55               Whis key Straight ·····- ···-- 55
 P a lm B e a c h .......................... 50        Whiskey Cordi a l ·······-·-··· 51
 Ple a sant Girl ···················- · 54             Whiskey L e mon a d e Float 59
 Prince G e orge ...................... 58             Yankee Girl ···············-······- 53
 Po ny .......................................... 56   Y a nkee Boy ·················-·····- 56




              Salesmen, Crew Managers, and Distributors
                         Wanted Everywhere.
                                       It Sells on .Sight
                                For All Information
                                      Address:
                                  J. F. DRISCOLL
                            Post Office-Uptown Station
                                     Chicago, Ill.

                                               -84-
I
.1
I
