     (riuri




m:
 ^VrvjlRrk
                r\




  DEmOll

  fxBmpt f;^<
6itl.5   G83
JACK'S MANUAL
     JACK'S
 MANUAL
ON THE VINTAGE AND PRODUCTION,CARE
AND HANDLING OF WINES, LIQUORS, ETC.



      A Handbook of Hij^niationfor
   Homes, ClubsifHotfifs and Restaurants

       By           GROHUSKO
  Recipes for Fancy Mixed Drinks'and
  When and How to Serve cocktails^
  COBBLERS, COOLERS, CORDIALS, DAISIES,
  FLIPS, FIZZES, HIGHBALLS, JULEPS, PUNCHF5,
  RICKEYS, SMASHES, SOURS, CUPS, SANGAREES-
                and TODDIES             '• •




NEW YORK • ALFRED A. KNOP

                   19 3 3
      A           >     V

                          Copyright igo8, igio, igiz,
<Y    /                           1916, igs3
                          BY JACOB A. GROHUSKO
                        COMPLETELY REVISED        AND

/                                     RESET

                               December, 1933
                      All rights reserved. No part of this
                      boo\ may be reproduced in any form
                      without permission in writing from
                      the publisher, except by a reviewer
                      who may quote brief passages in a
                      review to be printed in a magazine
                                or newspaper.
                      Manufactured in the United States
                                 of America




     " 'f •   o




                               ^1''I*." ^
                            Preface




The author, in presenting this volume to the public, begs to
state that his intention in compiling it is not to have it recorded
as one of the literary marvels of the day, but to give to the
prince of good fellows a guide of value for his home, club, hotel,
or cafe.
  As previously stated in his first Manual, it is only practical
experience, through long association with leading American
hotels and clubs, that enables him to publish this book, the
most complete of its kind ever issued.
  The author has always looked for something new and original
in the line of mixed drinks, and many of his own original con
coctions which are in use today have become standard recipes.
Reference is made only to wines and ingredients of the highest
character, only such products as have been preferred by the
author; and as their use has proved satisfactory and pleased
many thousand guests, he would suggest their use in mixing.
Care should be taken in the selection of pure ingredients, ac
curacy in observing the proportions. Thus you will compound
from the recipes in this book beverages that are delightful to
the taste and easily assimilated by the system.
  That the reader may be familiar with the various sizes and
the terms used in this manual, the following table will prove of
value. It applies, however, only to liquor — that is, whisky,
gin, etc. — other ingredients are additional.
  The term ioo% means a cocktail glassful; 50%= half a
VI                        PREFACE
                                                                  1
glassful; 25% = a quarter of a glassful. A cocktail glass, made
up as directed, should be regarded as a full portion for one
person.
     To assure a smooth and palatable beverage, all stirring or
shaking of ingredients should be timed to the count of ten.
                           Contents




★       ★        ★     ★       ★      ★   ★   ★   ★



HISTORY OF THE COCKTAIL

THE GREAT AMERICAN COCKTAIL                       xi
INTRODUCTORY
     Champagne                                    3
     Sauternes                                    11
     Burgundies                                   13
      Claret                                      ^7
      Wines of Italy                              19
      Wines of Germany                            20
     Sweet Bitter Wines                           21
     Sherry                                       21
     Port Wine                                    22
      Liqueurs                                    24
      Bitters                                     25
      Vermouth                                    26
    ^ Brandies or Cognac                          26
      Whis\y                                      26
    ^Rum                                          28
      Ales, Beers, Porter, Stout                  28
      Gin                                         30
      Alcohol                                     3'^
/     Cellar Management                           31
VIU                       CONTENTS


      When and How to Serve Beverages                     33
      Note                                                34

RECIPES

      Cobblers                                            37
      Cocktails                                           39
      Coolers                                            111
      Cups                                               118
      Daisies                                            124
      Egg Noggs                             '            127
      Fizzes                                             129
      Flips                             .                138
      Frappes                                            141
      Highballs                                          142
      Juleps                                             146
      Lemonades                                          148
      Miscellaneous                                      151
      Bunches         ■                                  188
      Ric\eys                                           207
      Sangarees                                         209
                                                        210

      Smashes                                           212
      5o«rj                                             214
      Toddies                                           220
A FEW REMINDERS FOR BARTENDERS                          223

TOASTS                                                  227

INDEX                                       jollows page 234
                  History of the Coc1{tail




!M!ost of the people one meets where cocktails grow have an
idea that they know the origin of the word "cocktail." No two
of them, however, agree as to what that origin is, and in any
case they are all wrong, as they always put that origin some
where between sixty and seventy years ago, whereas in The
Balance, an American periodical, under date of May 13, 1806,
we read:"Cocktail is a stimulating liquor, composed of spirits
of any kind, sugar, water, and bitters — it is vulgarly called
'bittered sling' and is supposed to be an excellent electioneer
ing potion." This is the earliest reference to the cocktail that
 we have been able to find in print.
  Linguists have been misled by the word'"cocktail" into
imaginipg that it was once in some way connected with the
plumage of the domestic rooster. But this is not so. The true
and incontrovertible story of the origin of the cocktail is as
follows:
   Somewhere about the beginning of the last century, there
 had been for some time very considerable friction between the
 American Army of the Southern States and King Axolotl VJII
 of Mexico. Several skirmishes and one or two battles'Tiad taken
 place, but eventually a truce was called and the King agreed to
 meet the American general and to discuss terms of peace with
 him.
   The place chosen for the meeting was the King's pavilion,
and thither the American general repaired, and was accom
 modated with a seat on the bench, as it were, next to King A,
 himself. Before opening negotiations, however. His Majesty
X           HISTORY OF THE            COCKTAIL


asked the general, as one man to another, if he would like a
drink, and, being an American, he of course said yes. The King
gave a command, and in a few moments there appeared a lady
of entrancing and overwhelming beauty, bearing in her slender
fingers a gold cup encrusted with rubies and containing a
strange potion of her own brewing. Immediately an awed and
ominous hush fell upon the assembly, for the same thought
struck everyone: namely, that as there was only one cup, either
the King or the general would have to drink from it first, and
the other would be bound to feel insulted. The situation was
growing tense when the cupbearer seemed also to realize the
difiEculty, for, with a sweet smile, she bowed her shaf)ely head
in reverence to the assembly and drank the drink herself. Every
thing was saved and the conference came to a satisfactory end
ing; but before leaving, the general asked if he might know the
name of the lady who had shown such tact."That," proudly
said the King, who had never seen the lady before,"is my
daughter Coctel."
 "Your Majesty," replied the general,"I will see that her
name is honored for ever more by my Army."
  Coctel, of course, became cocl{tail, and there you are! There
exists definite, unquestionable proof of the truth of this story,
but no correspondence upon the subject can in any circum
stances be entertained.
  So much for the early history of cocktails. Since those days
the art of the cocktail has developed very considerably, and in
the following pages you will find a vast collection of old and
new favorites to please the palate of the most exacting.
       THE GREAT AMERICAN COCKTAIL

Since Dionysius, blithe and young,inspired old Hellaspair
And beat the muses at their game,"with vine leaves in his
    hair;"
Since Wotan quafed oblivion to Nieblungen gold.
And Thor beside the icy fjord dran\ thunderbolts of old;
Since Omar in the Persian boivl forgot the fires of hell
And wondered what the vintners buy so rare as that they sell —
What potion have the gods bestowed to lift the thoughts afar
Li^e that seductive cocktail they sell across the bar?
Perhaps it's made of whis\ey and perhaps it's made of gin;
Perhaps there's orange bitters and a lemon peel within;
Perhaps it's called Martini and perhaps it's called, again.
The name that spread Manhattan s fame among the sons of
    men;
Perhaps you liJ{e it garnished with what thinking men avoid.
The little blushing cherry that is made of celluloid.
But be these matters as they may, a cher confrere you are
If you admire the cocktail they pass across the bar.
INTRODUCTORY




                ;
               ■ ' v,(   4'3W
                                                                     h




                        Introductory




                       CHAMPAGNE



Champagne is produced in the Department of Marne, where
grapes were cultivated as far back as the sixth century. In the
last will and testament of Remy, Archbishop of Reims, dated
A.D. 530, he bequeaths to the clergy of his diocese vineyards situ
ated in the neighborhood of that city. The growth of the Cham
pagne district has continually increased since the tenth century,
and viticulture has become a very important industry. The real
development of champagne dates from the eighteenth century
when Dom Perignon, a monk of the Abbey of Hautvillers, near
fipernay, discovered the method of making sparkling cham
pagne. The Champagne district seems to have a special influence
over the fruit grown upon it, for the grapes possess a perfume
and other qualities not found in grapes grown anywhere else.
The soil is composed of chalk with a light covering of earth,
which gives the grapes their distinctive qualities, producing a
sparkling wine which cannot be equalled. Many people think
that champagne is made from a white grape, but not more than
one quarter of the grapes grown in the Champagne vineyards
are white, the rest being black, and it is from these principally
that champagne is produced. Great precaution is taken not to
crush the grapes when gathering, the hunches being detached
from the vine one by one and carefully sorted according to their
ripeness; and in some locations every individual grape is ex
amined. The grapes are pressed daily in a large press, worked
by hand, and the must(juice) is separated at once from the stalk
                     jack's manual
and skin, which contains the coloring matter. This liquid is
almost colorless, and after fermentation becomes still lighter in
color. The juice obtained from the press by three consecutive
pressings, gives the cuvee, and it is this liquid which has the
necessary qualities to make a fine wine. The wines obtained by
subsequent pressure, called vins de suite, are inferior in quality
and cannot be used for choice champagne.
   As the must runs out of the press, it is put into vats, where it
is left to settle for twelve hours, to allow impurities to settle at
the bottom. It is then drawn off into casks, the cleanliness of
which is scrupulously looked after. A few days later, fermenta
tion commences, and changes the sweet liquid into an alcoholic
one, which is wine. When cold weather sets in, the wine be
comes clear and is drawn off, the lees remaining in the cask.
  The total area now under cultivation to produce true cham
pagne, under prescribed regulations, is only about 37,000
acres.

  The wine-producing district of Champagne may be divided
into three regions. First, the mountain country of Reims, where
the grapes possess the distinctive qualities of vinosity and fresh
ness; second, the Avize district, notable for wines made from
white grapes which are of great delicacy; and, third, the valley
of the Marne, where the wines are characterized by an excellent
bouquet. Wines made solely from grapes of any one district
would be found disappointing. One must unite the freshness
and strength of Verzenay with the mellowness of Bouzy, the
softness of Cramant, and the bouquet of Ay in order to blend
into a champagne all the delightful qualities which a connois
seur expects to find. During January and February the wine-
maker mixes in immense casks the wines from different vine-,
yards. Wines want character, bouquet, vinosity, and delicacy,
and these qualities can be secured only by the mixture of wines
possessing these elements individually. To make a fine cham
pagne one must know thoroughly the characteristics of the wine
of each vineyard, and this requires a keen sense of smell and
taste, and great skill and experience.
                     INTRODUCTORY


  By this system it is possible for the shipper to keep up a uni
form excellence in his wines and to duplicate each shipment
despite a succession of bad vintages. There are other districts
surrounding where good wines are grown. The pale, delicate
Manzanilla is grown around the litde town of Sanliicar de Bar-
rameda, about fifteen miles from Jerez; and Puerto de Santa
 Maria yields somewhat inferior wines to the neighboring dis
tricts mentioned.
   Champagne, as everybody knows, takes its name from the
French province in which it is produced, but everybody does
not know that sparkling champagne was the discovery of a
monk belonging to the royal monastery of St. Pierre at Haut-
villers. His name was Father Perignon, and he died in 1715.
The chief depots of champagne are at Ay,fipernay, and Reims,
where the quantity kept in stock is exceedingly large. The
sparkle, or"mousse," as the French term it, which character
izes champagne is produced by the development of carbonic
acid gas from the saccharine constituents of the grape juice, and
is sometimes assisted in bad years by the addition of sugar to
the fermenting wine. Afterwards, when the wine has fermented
in the cask until the spring, it is bottled. In the bottle slight
fermentation continues, and a sediment is formed, which is
adroitly thrown out shortly before the wine is required for the
market. This process is termed "disgorging." The wine then
receives a certain quantity of liqueur, composed of the finest
cane sugar dissolved in old still wine. Champagne-merchants
have each his own views as to the quantity of liqueur which
ought to be used.
  The London champagne-buyers whenever there is a choice
vintage, buy it and take it to London,so that the greatest quan
tity of good champagne is only to be found there.
   Heretofore the wines shipped to America have been much
sweeter than those used in London, but now "extra dry" or
"brut" wines are becoming more popular here every day.
Champagnes on the English market, generally called "brut,"
contain from one to two per cent liqueur. These wines are
                     jack's manual
largely impregnated with carbonic acid, engendered by an after-
fermentation in the closed bottle by means of added sugar.
  This process originated in Champagne, where the best spar
kling wines are produced, and whence it has spread to the
Rhine, the Moselle, and other districts. Champagne which con
tains relatively little sugar is called "dry." It is chiefly this kind
which is imported into Great Britain, where champagne is used
habitually as a dinner wine principally; in France a sweet wine
is preferred.
  At the present day wine is practically a European product,
although a certain quantity is made in the United States, at the
Cape of Good Hope, and in Australia.
  France shows today and has long shown herself to be the most
remarkable wine-producing country in the world's history, and
this in face of the fact that the United States and Italy possess
more territory suitable to grape-growing, and wonderful natural
advantages. Why? Because she has taken advantage of the fit
ness of her soil for wine; her meteorological conditions; her
geographical position in relation to the European markets, and
incidentally those of the world; and pardy because of the apti
tude of her inhabitants.
  Spain is second only in reputation to France among,wine
growing countries; its white wine, known as Sherry, first
brought it into prominence. Sherry is so called from the island
of Jerez (Xeres) de la Frontera, the headquarters of this
industry.
                    American Champagnes
  In our own country the cultivation of the vine has made rapid
progress of late years, and American wines are steadily taking
the place of the foreign product.
  American sparkling wines are produced principally in three
districts: in New York State, in the Ohio and Missouri district,
and in California. The soil and climate of the Pacific Coast
seem best adapted to the growth of the vine, and wine-making
is one of the leading industries of California. The Mission grape
                    INTRODUCTORY


(being the first) is supposed to have been imported from Mexico
by the Franciscan fathers about the year 1769. Subsequently
varieties of French, German, and Spanish vines were introduced
into the state. In Ohio upon the shores of Lake Erie and along
the Ohio River the vine is extensively cultivated.
  New York, Missouri, Illinois, and Pennsylvania are likewise
large producing states, the largest wine-manufacturing estab
lishment being in New York State, Steuben County.
  There are many excellent types of wines made in America
which resemble the better foreign qualities in many essentials,
and they are much lower in price than the imported. They are
clean and palatable, with a good deal of"mousse they are
good "dinner wines."
  New York State produces nearly four fifths of the output,
from grapes grown on the steep hills around Hammondsport
and Lake Keuka. These wines are light and delicate, resembling
much the French Saumurs.
  The Ohio and Missouri wines, while being heavier in body,
are somewhat rougher in flavor.
  California, while the largest producer of still wines, has up
to present time furnished but little champagne.

                      True Champagne
   True champagne is naturally effervescent — the sparkle and
brilliancy being due to a naturally generated carbonic acid gas.
Still wines may be charged with gas, imitating champagne, but
the result is never satisfactory. It is this method which has been
responsible for the delimitation of the district from which wines
may be shipped as"champagne," the French Government per
mitting the use of the word "champagne"only on wine pro
duced naturally in the Department of the Marne. Wine of the
Department of the Aube may be labeled "Champagne of the
Second Zone."
                    jack's manual

                          The Cuvee

   During the spring the merchant makes the "cuvee!' which
is the assembling of a number of wines in one blend; depending
upon the business of the merchant, it may be a few bottles or
many thousand, and until finally disposed of it is known as the
"special cuvee"of the year of blending."Vintage years"are
the years of especially fine crops and in such years the cuvee is
made as large as proper qualities permit. The making of the
cuvee is the most delicate operation in the profession, requiring
exquisite judgment in the selection of the wines to be blended
to produce the perfect cuvee, a definite result being obtained
only after a period of years, as the wine rounds out in maturity
in the bottle.

                           Bottling
  By the aid of mechanical apparatus the wine, to which is
added a certain quantity of cane sugar, is put into new and care
fully rinsed bottles. These are corked and the cork is held in
by means of an iron clasp. The bottles are immediately stored
on their sides in immense cellars, hewn from solid chalk.


                    Forming the Sparkle
  The ferments which existed at the time of the vintage and
had become dormant during the winter revive with the first
warmth of spring and commence to act afresh. They decom
pose the natural sugar still remaining from the vintage and
transform it, as also the cane sugar added at the time of botding,
into a supplementary amount of alcohol and carbonic acid gas;
but this time the gas cannot escape, because the bottle is her
metically sealed; instead it mixes thoroughly with the wine,
producing that elegant sparkle so well known. This fermenta
tion in the corked bottle generates a deposit which settles on the
low side of the bottle and must be got rid of. This is effected by
                     INTRODUCTORY


two operations. These are the "mise sur pointe" and the
"disgorgement."


                  The Mise sur Pointe

  The bottles are placed head downward through an inclined
plank pierced with holes at an angle of seventy degrees. Every
day for at least three months a cellarman, specially trained for
this kind of work, shakes the bottles lightly against the plank
with a wrist movement quick and sharp. The deposit slowly
descends and collects on the cork.


                      The Disgorgement
  The deposit, having settled on the cork, is now ready to be
extracted. To do this the botde is first placed head downward,
to a depth of three inches, in a refrigerating bath. Under the
action of the cold, the deposit congeals in the neck of the bottle.
The cellarman then takes the bottie out of the bath, holds it
upright, undoes the clasp, and eases the cork, which the pressure
of the carbonic gas inside eventually forces out with a loud re
port, together with the deposit. The wine is then absolutely
clear.

                       The Liqueuring
  After disgorging, the wine has not the least taste of sugar,
the sugar added at bottling having been completely transformed
into alcohol and carbonic acid. Whilst in this state the wine is
known as "brut." To regulate it to the client's taste, which
varies in different countries, a certain quantity of liqueur, com
posed of sugar candy and wine from the finest Champagne
vineyards, is added immediately after'the disgorging.
10                   jack's manual

                        The Cording
  For corking, the best Spanish corks are used and are held in
by either string and wire or wire muzzle, according to the
custom of each house. Finally the capsule and label are put on
and the bottles are packed in cases or baskets ready for shipment.
  In France the cellars located at Reims, Fpernay, Ay, Avize,
etc., are well worth seeing.


                           Serving
  The process of uncorking this wine is often grossly misman
aged. The cork should be slowly and noiselessly extracted after
first the wire and then the string are entirely removed. The
glass must be near at hand so that no wine may be lost. Care
should be taken that the wine flows out quietly; if gently poured
on the side of the wine glass, the ebullition of the wine will
be checked and the goblet filled without spilling. Do not fill
the glass to the brim with any wine, but leave a quarter of an
inch or more free. Rich champagne only requires to be stood in
ice up to the shoulder of the botde for not longer than twenty
minutes, even in the hottest weather. It is important to re
member that too much icing destroys body and vinosity. Served
with ice puddings, a rich champagne is delicious, or even after
soup, but it would be considered cruel to provide nothing but
champagne during the whole of a dinner. Should champagne
be required between luncheon and dinner, it is well to serve
a biscuit with it.

                     Always a Luxury
  True champagne carr/ndver be other than a luxury, on ac
count of the cost of cultivation, the care in making, the long
period elapsing 'before the wine has reached maturity, and
principally the 'limited area in which it can be produced. The
                        INTRODUCTORY                            II


loss from leakage and breakage is enormous, owing to the pres
sure upon the bottle, and the diflSculty of transportation.

                         SAUTERNES


 "Un rayon de soldi concentre dans un verre"(Biarnez)
   The region which produces the celebrated white wines uni
versally known under the name of sauternes is situated on the
left bank of the Garonne, about thirty-five kilometers south
of Bordeaux, and includes the communes or parishes of Barsac,
Bommes, Fargues, Sauternes, and Preignac and a part of Saint-
Pierre-de-Mons.
  The country is hilly, admirably exposed to the rays of the
sun, which explains, to a great extent, the degree of maturity
the grapes attain.
  The soil is more or less sandy, argillo-silico-calcareous in some
parts, argillo-calcareous (as at Barsac), or entirely argillaceous
in others.
   There is no doubt that to this particularly favorable soil is
due in a great measure the superiority of the Sauterne wines,
which it. is impossible to equal anywhere else, however careful
the vinification may be. But it is only just to add that the se
lection of the vine plants, the extraordinary care bestowed on
the culture of the vineyards, the special and expensive vinifica
tion, contribute to insure perfection in bouquet,color, and finesse
in a wine to which no other can be compared, for the simple
reason that, of its kind, there exists nothing like it.
  The appearance of the vineyards in this region differs from
that of the Medoc, inasmuch as the vines are high. The sur
rounding country in which culture is more varied, is hilly and
picturesque, the views from some of the heights — that, amongst
others, on which Chateau Yquem is situated — extending miles
over fertile scenery.
  It would take too much space to describe minutely the labor
involved in cultivating these vineyards; each season, or, more
12                   JACKSMANUAL

exactly, each day, brings its task, and nothing must be neglected,
however futile this may appear to the uninitiated.
  The grapes are gathered and pressed in a manner peculiar
to the district. The gathering takes place later than in the Medoc
and lasts much longer, commencing at the end of September
and terminating in the first half of November. The grapes are
allowed to attain an extreme degree of ripeness; after taking a
deep golden color, they finally, under the influence of the myco-
derma Botrytis cinerea, become overripe, a state absolutely neces
sary to insure the quality of the future wine. The berry subse-
quendy becomes browned and roasted, the skin gets thin and
cracks, and a sugary juice oozes from it. Little by little, each
berry advances to this state until the whole bunch forms, so to
speak, but one mass of juicy fruit. It may easily be imagined
how fragile the grapes are when they get to this degree of ma
turity, and how, whilst they gain if the weather remains fine,
they are likely to suffer if it becomes rainy.
  The gathering is effected in small quantities at a time, and
only as each bunch of grapes attains the advanced state de
scribed above. Sometimes, and especially in the first growths,
each berry is gathered separately and more or less quickly,
according to the weather. When rainy, the operations are sus
pended, to be resumed when it becomes dry again.
  It is easy to see that quantity here is sacrificed to quality, and
that the expenses of wine-making, under such circumstances
must necessarily be high. It often requires as many as six suc
cessive pickings to gather one crop. The yield per acre may be
roughly estimated at from two to four hogsheads, according to
the vintage. Vintaged by ordinary methods, the wines would
yield at least one third more.
  In the superior growths, there are three selections or tries."
The first, comprising the berries which have dried somewhat
after becoming overripe, yields what is known as vin de tete."
The second selection comprises the berries in a somewhat less
advanced state and yields a larger quantity. The third includes
the remainder of the grapes, which, although ripe, have not at-
                      INTRODUCTORY                               I3

tained the same degree of maturity as the others; the wine
pressed from it is called"vin de queue"and is relatively unim
portant in quantity.
  The grapes are pressed rapidly, so as to prevent the wine from
taking too deep a color from the skin. The must which flows
from the press is at once put into casks, where the fermentation
begins almost immediately and lasts several weeks, the duration
depending on the style of the wine and on the temperature.
  The quality is approximately judged by the musts, but it is
only after the first racking, generally when the winter is over,
that a definite opinion can be formed. Four rackings a year are
necessary — sometimes five for wines of the first picking — and
a daily inspection, tasting, and filling of the casks are requisite
to insure proper treatment.
 The classed growths are sold under their name, Chateau
Yquem being the first and probably the best known. But simply
as Sauternes, Barsac, Bommes, Preignac, and other wines of the
highest grade are sold and fetch high prices, the greatest care
being bestowed on the small vineyards, as on the large ones.
  Sauternes of successful vintages are delicate in flavor, of a pale
golden color, mellow, rich, bordering on sweetness, and with
a fine, agreeable bouquet. They are hygienic, not heady, and
merit being called perfection in white wines.
  Dr. Mauriac, of Bordeaux, says in one of his works:"The
great Sauternes white wines, which are of a relatively high alco
holic strength, are both tonic and stimulating; consumed moder
ately, they are invaluable to convalescents after a severe illness or
when it is necessary to revive an organism attenuated by high
fever, hemorrhage, or long fatigue.
  "They are perfect as dessert wines, and one or two glasses at
the end of a meal facilitate digestion and provoke gayety."

                        BURGUNDIES


  The wines produced in the province of Burgundy, situated in
eastern France, in the Cote-d'Or, between Macon, Beaune, and
14                  JACKSMANUAL

Dijon, rank among the best burgundies. Tbey contain more
tartrates and tannin than clarets, and are heavier in body and
aroma.

  The best-known cheaper qualities are Macon, Beaune, and
Beaujolais, and their names indicate generally the district of
their growth. The better red wines are Romanee-Conti, Pom-
mard, Chambertin, Nuits, and Clos de Vougeot, and the best
white wines are the Chablis.
   The red burgundies are recommended as blood-making wines,
especially in cases of general or local anaemia.
   The ancient province of Burgundy, one of the largest and
finest of France, embraced before the revolution of 1789 terri
tory which has since formed the Ain, Cote-d'Or, Saone-et-
Loire, and part of the Yonne departments.
  The dukes of Burgundy were powerful and played an im
portant part in French history; by marriage they became masters
of most of the Dutch provinces. The wealthy Netherland cities
contributed to the embellishment of those of Burgundy, and the
influence of Dutch art is to be detected in many of the architec
tural beauties of the province.
  On the other hand, the inhabitants of Burgundy introduced
their wines into Holland, and from that time their great repu
tation outside France dates. Even nowadays Belgium and Hol
land are amongst the most fervent admirers and largest con
sumers of burgundies.
  As a wine-growing country Burgundy extends along the
railway line from Sens to Villefranche and includes Beaujolais,
which, although part of the Department of the Rhone produces
wines of the same character, and not at all like those of the
Lyonnais district, to which it belongs administratively and
geographically.
  From a viticultural standpoint. Burgundy may be divided into
three principal districts: the Yonne in the north, Saone-et-Loire
and Rhone in the south, Cote-d'Or in the center. The Yonne,
known as Lower Burgundy, produces red and white wines in
the administrative divisions of Tonnerre, Auxerre, Avallon, and
                     INTRODUCTORY                             I5

Joigny. In the first two mentioned the best growths are located,
amongst which Chablis is the best-known. The Saone-et-Loire
comprises two distinct districts, the Maconnais and the Chalon-
nais, each of which can be subdivided into several classes or
zones producing wines of different character, style, and quality.
The wines of the department of the Rhone, which are classed
with those of Burgundy, are produced in the district of Beaujo-
lais, in the administrative arrondissement of Villefranche. The
district is divided by a chain of mountains into two parts.
Upper Beaujolais, in which the best growths are located, and
Lower Beaujolais, growing more ordinary wines. The beauti
ful department of the Cote-d'Or, which forms Upper Burgundy,
possesses the most celebrated growths. The vineyards are
situated on the sunny slopes of a chain of mountains running
from northeast to southwest, and are most favorably exposed.
Unlike the Bordeaux vineyards, they are in general small, vary
ing in size from ten to forty acres.
  The vineyards can be classed in three groups: (i) Cote de
Beaune, in which are located, amongst others, such growths as
Chassagne, Gravieres, Clos-Tavannes, Montrachet, Charmes,
Goutte d'Or, Santenot, Volnay, Pommard, Beaune, Aloxe-
Corston, etc.; (2) Cote de Nuits, including many of the finest
growths, amongst others Les Corvees, Les Thoreys, Les Malcon-
sorts. La Tache, Roman&-Conti, Richebourg, Clos-Vougeot, Les
Musigny, Chambolle, Clos de Tart, Les Lambreys, Chambertin,
Clos de Beze, Clos Saint-Jacques, etc.; (3) Cote de Dijon, the
least important, which produces in general wines of secondary
quality.
  As mentioned above, the vineyards are in general small,
and a great number of them are divided into lots of unequal
area; a typical example is the celebrated Clos de Vougeot, which,
although not very extensive, belongs to fifteen proprietors.
  The Hospice de Beaune possesses several vineyards, and it is
the custom every year, a few days after the gathering, to offer
their wines for sale by public auction. The prices realized are
always high, and although they are not exactly taken as a basis.
i6                  jack's manual
it is only after this sale has taken place that the market value
of the vintage is judged.
   In Burgundy the vines are cultivated with great care, accord
ing to tradition dating several centuries back. Very few changes
have been made in this long course of years; in fact, the grow
ers are adverse to the adoption of modern methods of culture,
such as recommended by agricultural committees and experts.
The grapes are picked at the end of September or the beginning
of October, according to their degree of ripeness. The fermenta
tion is followed very carefully, and the cuveries where the wine
is made are commodiously built so as to insure perfect condi
tions of temperature and cleanliness. The wines, drawn into
casks, are treated methodically. In February or March following
the gathering, they are separated from the lees, which are
pretty considerable; a second racking takes place in July. The
following year the wines are racked twice, and normal treat
ment is continued by lining and racking until they are ready
for botding, which is also effected with the utmost care, every
precaution being taken to insure proper development and long
preservation. Burgundies are generally bottled when two or
three years old.
   The characteristics of Burgundy wines are a bouquet and
flavor which are inimitable, fine taste, body, seve, all of which
qualities constitute one of the finest products under the sun.
Each growth or district has naturally its peculiar qualities and
varies in value from the ordinary to the highest grades.
  Beaujolais are comparatively light, with a bouquet; they de
velop rapidly in bottle. Macon are firmer, with color, are of
good preservadon, and develop a fair bouquet with age. The
Cote-d'Or produces a great variety of fine wines, some relatively
medium-bodied, others very full-bodied, rich, and fruity.

                 How to Serve Burgundy
  Red Burgundies should be served at the dining-room tempera
ture, having been brought from the cellar several hours before
                     INTRODUCTORY                            VJ

 the meal, after having been decanted off their sediment, or by
 using special baskets in which the botdes are laid just as they
 lie in the bin.
  Burgundy wines in bottle form a sediment, owing to ma
turing, which is more or less abundant according to the growths
and ages. This sediment does not impair the quality of the wine,
provided the botde is uncorked carefully and not shaken so as
 to disturb the sediment.
   The cork having been drawn, the wine should be carefully
decanted while holding the bottle up against the light in the
same position as when stored in the cellar. As soon as the sedi
ment is nearing the neck of the bottle, the decanting must be
Stopped for the mixing of the sediment with the wine will
deprive the latter of its bouquet and render it bitter. Botdes
should never be left uncorked, for the better the quality of the
wine, the more apt it is to become flat.
   Burgundy should be served, and is best appreciated, with
heavy roasts and large game. At the temperature of the room
all its fine qualities develop.
   White wines should be left in the cellar undl needed.
   Sparkling wines should be iced.

                            CLARET


   The word "claret" means a wine of clear, red color. It is
the English name given to the red wines of France, and particu
larly those grown in the Bordeaux district.
   Chateau wines are those made from grapes of a selected
character and grown on vineyards of wealthy gentlemen, who
devote much time and money to their careful cultivation, stor
ing, and aging. Chateau-bottled wines rank very high in the
estimation of the connoisseur. Wines described as bearing the
"cachet du ch&teau"are simply those which have the crest or
coat of arms bearing the name of the chateau on the label. The
caps and corks are likewise branded.
   There are hundreds of districts where good wines are grown.
i8                  jack's manual
To enumerate their varieties would fill volumes, and in a
limited space it is impossible to give more than superficial
indication of the best-known brands. The wines of France
have a recognized classification, according to value.
  Clarets do not throw a deposit as quickly as port wine, but
the greatest care must be exercised in decanting them in order
that they may be served in brilliant condition; the sediment
being extremely fine, with a bitter flavor, it is not easily de
tected, but will entirely spoil the delicacy of the wine if mixed
with it.
  Clarets moved from one cellar to another are temporarily
put out of condition; it is like transplanting a tree without
giving it time to recover and develop in its new soil. Therefore
wine always requires to settle down before being consumed.
Old wines particularly need a rest after a journey, and they
should always be taken from the cellar direct to the dining-
room. This is important, but it is very generally omitted in
hotels and clubs.
  Claret, to acquire the proper temperature, should be stood
up in the dining-room the morning it is to be consumed, and
decanted at least half an hour before it is served. A full wine
may be kept a little longer, as it improves by contact with the
air. Young or cheap clarets should also be carefully decanted,
because any sediment coming into the glass destroys the charac
ter of the wine.
  It is most inadvisable to serve claret in a decanting basket;
it should always be decanted, because the last one or two glasses
invariably run muddy. Claret should, if possible, be put on the
table at about the temperature of the room in which it will be
consumed, to preserve the delicate freshness of the wine. The
bouquet escapes when the wine is exposed to sudden heat or
warmed to excess; this bouquet is mainly due to volatile vinous
ethers which it is most desirable to retain. Clarets of medium
quality improve with age, whereas the lightest table-wines may
be drunk fresh-bottled, as is the custom in France, a fine large,
thin, white glass being used, and only two thirds filled.
                     INTRODUCTORY                             I9

  Sherry and stronger wines are liable to throw a deposit in
bottle if kept for any length of time; care should therefore be
exercised in decanting them or, in fact, any wine in which a
sediment may be formed.
  The sound and natural wines of Bordeaux are refreshing and
appetizing, and are the best type of universal beverage for
everyday use; no other wines which the world produces are
capable of yielding such lasting pleasures to the palate. They
have also the additional advantage that when mixed with water
they do not spoil.
  When taken with food, they entice the languid palate and
are admirably adapted for persons of all ages and conditions
whose occupations tax the brain more than the muscles. As they
contain only a comparatively small percentage of alcohol, they
have but little tendency to inebriate.
  The dietetic value of claret has not been overrated. If taken
with food, it is of service to persons of the gouty temperament,
as it stimulates digestion and does not create acidity. The com
bination of the various saline ingredients with fruit acids,
notably the acid tartrate of potash (cream of tartar), make for
its highest value.
  The delicate aroma and delicious flavor of the finer sorts of
after-dinner claret give endless delight and satisfaction; and
there are so many varieties (differing according to the vineyards
from which they emanate) that they afford the connoisseur a
wide scope for the exercise of judgment in selection.

                     WINES OF ITALY

  Italy ranks second in the wine production of the world. Its
Brolio is one of the best Italian red wines; it resembles Bur
gundy, but is somewhat drier on the palate. When old, it is a
highly tonic wine. Barbera is another good wine; it ranks as
good table or dinner wine; also white Corvo Capri and Lacryma
Cristi, strong, sweet wines of southern Italy. There are many
others, both still and sparkling, amongst which may be named
20                   JACKSMANUAL

Moscatxj Spumante (sparkling Moselle flavor), Nebiolo Spu-
mante Valpolicella (sparkling red wine), and sparkling Lac-
ryma Christi.
  Italian wines are well known and highly appreciated all over
the world.

                  WINES OF GERMANY

  German wines are grown principally on the banks of the
Rhine, and are generally known as hocks. Those grown on the
banks of the Moselle are designated as Moselles. There are
many varieties of German wines, and their names denote princi
pally the district of their growth.
  German wines are of great medical value. They are strength
ening to the action of the heart and diffuse cheerfulness, without
leaving adverse results, which more alcoholic beverages might
produce. Moselle especially, as a highly ethereal wine, is very
useful in cases of cerebral and cardiac exhaustion, it stimulates
the action of the liver and kidneys, and is generally credited with
being otherwise beneficial. It is said to be anti-diabetic, and to
minimize gouty tendencies.
  Hoc\s have great fragrance and vinosity and are pre-
eminendy the wines most suitable for intellectual enjoyment, as
they are particularly exhilarating and increase the appetite.
Being of light alcoholic strength, but rich in volatile ethers, they
are exceedingly efficacious. They do not (like clarets) quickly
spoil after opening.
   The finer qualities widely differ in flavor from each other
and, being rich in ethers, are much valued as a stimulant in sus
taining the nervous force of the heart, while its enfeebled muscu
lar tissue has time in which to recuperate.
  For serious nervous prostration their value as a remedy can
hardly be overestimated; their beneficial effects being strikingly
exhibited in bringing back a stronger and steadier heart-beat,
thus calming any attendant irritability, which is of the utmost
importance to the patient.
                      INTRODUCTORY                                 21



                 SWEET       BITTER       WINES


  French wines have been divided into four distinct classes;
namely, red wines, white wines, sparkling wines, and liqueur
wines. In the last class are included all the various aperitifs, such
as Dubonnet, which is an appetizer made from a sweet French
wine, strongly infused with a solution of Peruvian bark. Its
tonic properties are extensively acknowledged.
  Fdouard Dubonet & Labussiere is a high-class appetizing and
tonic wine and an exceedingly good stimulant. It is made from
old wine infused with bitter herbs and quinquinas. With min
eral waters it makes a very refreshing drink.
  Absinthe is a highly aromatic liqueur of an opaline, green
ish color and slightly bitter taste. It is distilled from bitter herbs
and is considered tonic and stomachic, although its excessive
use produces a morbid, stupefying condition differing from ordi
nary forms of alcoholism. The mode of drinking it is by mixing
with water, which is poured into it drop by drop.


                            SHERRY


  There are no wines which can compare with genuine sherry,
in either generous character, delicacy of flavor, or dietetic value.
It represents about the highest development of quality in wine.
It is distinguished by freedom from acidity and sugar-extractive
matter and has a high proportion of volatile ethers. These com
pound vinous ethers (to which wine of a certain class and age
owes the greater part of its flavor and bouquet) have a scarcely
less important influence in advancing the quality of wine than
in providing a valuable stimulant to the vital functions in cases
of cerebral and cardiac exhaustion.
  It relieves that condition of sleeplessness consequent upon slow
and inefScient digestion, in old age. It is also beneficial in the
later stages of severe febrile diseases, with great exhaustion and
sleeplessness. A really good and pure sherry has the same effect
22                     JACKSMANUAL

in rapidly restoring strength and regularity to the heart's action
in certain forms of chronic neurosis; also in those severe neu
ralgic affections which so seriously affect the system.
  The older bottled wines and those having the greatest amount
of ethers are most effective. The finest wine that can be pro
cured for money is just that which will give the best effect with
the least possible delay. It must not be forgotten that the in
fluence of such wine is entirely distinct from that of mere
alcohol.
   In Spain, where its qualities are well known, sherry is regu
larly used by physicians as a restorative in cases of collapse after
surgical operations.
  It should also be mentioned that it is invaluable for use as
medicine (but not as a beverage) in the wasting diseases of chil
dren, particularly when they lose weight rapidly. It is con
spicuously useful in such cases when the development of tuber
culosis is feared.
  In opposition to a very general idea, it is the opinion of
Dr. Garrott, confidently confirmed by Dr. Francis E. Anstie, in
his interesting book Uses of Wines in Health and Disease, that
the non-saccharine or dry sherries are not productive of gout,
provided they do not cause any disturbance of the digestive
functions. Dr. Anstie claims that it is only the saccharine of
alcoholic liquors that develops gouty manifestations or evokes
the latent tendency to gout.
  There are several different varieties of sherry, which may be
divided into the Amontillado and Manzanilla classes. The
Amontillado class may again be divided into fine and oloroso,
the former being the more delicate.

                        PORT     WINE

  The generous, full-flavored wine known as port is the
product of the district of Alto Douro, in the northeast of Portu
gal. It derives its name from the city of Oporto, located where
the river Douro enters the sea. The wild, mountainous country
                       INTRODUCTORY                           23

through which this boisterous river dashes is the place of growth
of this wine, the vineyards extending in terrace upon terrace
from the edge of the river to the top of the highest mountain in
the Alto Douro district.
  In the selection of port wine much depends upon the weather,
as the physical conditions of those who partake of it must be
considered; people accustomed to open-air exercise enjoy gener
ous wines, and in warm weather light, tawny wine should be
preferred.
  In some houses it is customary to drink a vintage port no
younger than twenty years in bottle, but there are many good
wines which mature in from four to six years and acquire suffi
cient perfection to satisfy the connoisseur who is not too fas
tidious. If more than one quality of port wine is required, it is
better to commence with the richer or younger wine and follow
with the drier or older.
  Port has high medicinal properties. It is a tonic and has
greater or less astringency according to the various growths
and vintages.
  There is a prevailing notion that genuine ports are not
obtainable. If invalids and convalescents knew of the splendid
tonic and building-up properties of our real ports, they would
not be slow in obtaining them.
  There are wines grown in Spain resembling port, such as the
Tarragonas, and in France is made a wine resembling port
known as the Roussilion, but a much better substitute than
either of those is the pure port wines of southern California,
grown from the same varieties of grapes as are native to the
Alto Douro district.
  Port represents nearly all the elements of a fine wine, besides
being most agreeable to a refined palate. An old bottled wine
when judiciously used, with its fine volatile ethers, is singu
larly useful in restoring strength and regularity to the heart's
action, and for certain forms of anaemia it is nearly always bene
ficial. A full-flavored potent wine of moderate age, retaining
much of the richness of its original flavor, is for such purposes
24                   JACKSMANUAL

the best agent, the object being to employ only such wine as will
exert the maximum of good influence upon both appetite and
digestion.
  In cases of acute hemorrhage even an excessive quantity of
port wine administered at the right moment has been found to
have the result of resurrection from almost certain death.


                         LIQUEURS

  Benedictine is a high<lass liqueur, distilled exclusively at
F&amp,in Normandy. It was originally made by the Benedic
tine monks, but since the French Revolution it has been manu
factured by a secular company, according to the original
recipe. Its medicinal properties are of an acknowledged high
order.
  Maraschino is made from cherries griotte, grown chiefly in
the south of France. It has a unique perfume and an agreeable
taste.
  Anisette. The basis of this cordial is anise seed. Its properties
for facilitating digestion and preventing secondary fermentation,
which causes dyspepsia, are well known and acknowledged; it
is not only an agreeable, but also a salutary cordial, known
throughout the world.
  Chartreuse is a highly esteemed tonic cordial, obtained by the
distillation of various aromatic plants and some species of nettles
growing on the Alps. There are some other ingredients and
herbs used, but these are a secret belonging to the Carthusian
monks, from which order the name Chartreuse is derived. It
was formerly distilled by the monks at the monastery of the
Grande Chartreuse in France, but since their expulsion it has
been made at Tarragona, Spain, where the order is now
established.
  Sloe gin, a distillation of unsweetened gin, mixed with an
infusion of the juice of the sloe berries. The sloe is a species of
the wild damson. Sloe gin is a delightful cordial. Its medicinal
attributes are very special, being slightly laxative and very
soothing in cases of griping pain. With hot or cold water it
                     INTRODUCTORY                              25

makes a very agreeable drink, and is also used in cocktails,
fizzes, rickeys, daisies, etc.
   Kummel. The foundation of kiimmel is caraway seed, and
its dietetic properties are somewhat similar to those of anisette.
It is invaluable for indigestion or dyspepsia. In Russia, where
it is known as Alish, it is used extensively as an after-dinner
cordial.
  Kirchwasser is a spirituous liqueur obtained by the distillation
of Swiss wild cherries. It is distilled chiefly in the Vosges and
in the Black Forest. It is free from sweetness, has a delicious
flavor of bitter almonds, and is colorless as water.
   Creme de cacao is made from the beans of cacao. The cacao,
the finest of which comes from Puerto Cabello, is remarkable
for its delicacy and perfume, and adds the most delicate effect to
the small quantity of alcohol which this cordial contains,
                 K




                          BITTERS

  Bitters are liqueurs (mostly spirituous) in which herbs —
generally bitter herbs — are steeped or infused. Bitters are
beneficial as appetizers and for other medicinal purposes.
  Angostura is a bitter tonic much used in the West Indies as
a preventive against malarial fever. It is also used as a flavoring
substance for all kinds of drinks (cocktails, etc.), to which it
imparts a unique flavor. It was originally made at Angostura, a
city in Venezuela. Now it is made at Trinidad.
  Amer Picon is an aperitif, or French bitters, made from
French sweet wine infused with bitter herbs.
  Orange bitters have a bitter-sweet flavor of the juice of the
orange, and are much used in the preparation of cocktails.
  There are many bitters which take their names from manu
facturers, such as Abbott's, Booker's, Boonekamp's, Hostetter's,
Fychaud, Fernet Branca, etc.
   Calisaya is a bitter tonic infused with calisaya or Peruvian
bark. It is an aromatic aperitif or appetizer, much esteemed in
all European cities. It is made in France from the finest quality
of muscatel wine and Peruvian bark.
26                   jack's manual

                         VERMOUTH


  Regular vermouth (often called Italian vermouth) is a bitter
sweet wine. Its component parts are a muscatel wine,aromatized
with an infusion of herbs and spices and sweetened with pure
sugar. It is fortified with brandy to about fourteen to eighteen
per cent. Wormwood is one of the chief herbs used in vermouth,
and from it it takes its name. It is extensively used in the
preparation of cocktails.
  Dry vermouth (often called French vermouth) is made in and
around Cette, France. Dry vermouth differs from the regular
or Italian by being less sweet and somewhat lighter in color.
In France it is one of the chief aperitifs and makes the finest
cocktails and highballs.


                BRANDIES        OR    COGNAC

  Brandy (an abbreviation of "brandy wine ") is a spirituous
liqueur obtained by the distillation of wine. The name
"brandy"is also given to the distillates from peaches, apricots,
cider, etc. In England a common kind of brandy, called British,
brandy, is distilled from malt liquors, to which the flavor and
color of brandy are added.
  Cognac brandy is acknowledged the standard, especially that
produced in the Department of Charente, south of Cognac,
France.

                            WHISKY

  We may take it as an accepted fact that both by custom and
by research it has been found that alcohol in its various forms
has its legitimate place in the dietary of both healthy and dis
eased organisms. The uncertainty of its effects, however, com
pels the medical profession to require a reliable spirit, for unless
alcohol is completely eliminated from the organism, its effects,
being cumulative, are unsatisfactory; the effects increase in
                     INTRODUCTORY                               27

geometrical progression with each succeeding dose. Care must
be exercised, therefore, in selecting whisky or other spirits for
general use. Medical opinion seems only to recognize the fact
that new whisky contains oils, assumed to be amylic alcohol, or
fusel oil, which must be got rid of by rectification or age. Little
attention is given to the other essential oils, the secondary prod
ucts of the more correct materials of distillation. These may
be either useful or detrimental in that they assist or retard the
elimination of the alcohol.
  A properly distilled and well-matured whisky made from
a fully malted barley should be selected. The essential oil of
malt, being a bland and harmless substance, fulfills a very useful
therapeutic ofSce, as by its diaphoretic action upon the skin it
promotes and increases excretion and consequently mitigates the
accumulative effects of the alcohol. Both pure malt whisky and
genuine cognac brandy possess beneficent qualities in their sec
ondary products, the resulting ethers of which have peculiarly
pleasing characteristics.
  Amylic alcohol, on the contrary (the essential oil of grain
whisky), is poisonous even in minute doses, and is most difficult
to eliminate from the whisky by any process. Its deleterious
effect may be recognized by a paralyzing influence upon the
skin, which, closing the doors of escape for the alcohol when
consumed, produces feverish symptoms, furred tongue, thirst,
and headache. Whisky containing it has earned, therefore, the
reputation of being "the Devil in solution." It is also necessary
to avoid spirits of any kind to which saccharine or other soften
ing ingredients have been added. For some reason not apparent
in the present state of our knowledge of the chemistry of diges
tion, the tendency of sugar to turn acid in the stomach is in
creased when taken in combination with alcohol.
  Alcohol plays an important part in the arrest of phthisis. Par
ticularly among those who have delicate skins and perspire
freely, the advantageous effects produced by the entire aban
donment of all medication, and the employment of considerable
doses of spirit, are well established.
28                   jack's manual
   All cases which are characterized by weakness of the heart,
failing circulation, inability to take food, loss of power of sleep,
and exhaustion come under the category of those in which the
best liqueur brandy or fine old malt whisky is indicated as the
most suitable form of alcohol that can be used, no matter how
much one has to pay for it.
  The physiological action of alcohol of whatever variety is
greatly modified by climate, habits of life, and the hourly
changes in the atmosphere. A humid climate, whether it be hot
or cold, seems not only to tolerate its use, but often to require a
stimulant; but in dry and hot countries whisky should be
sparingly used.

                                RUM


  The term "rum"is an abbreviation of"rumbullion." Rum
is a spirit, distilled from the juice of sugar-cane, and also from
molasses in countries where sugar-cane is not cultivated.
  The best qualities of rum are made in the West Indies and
are named after the place of manufacture, such as Jamaica rum,
Antigura rum, and St. Croix rum.
  New England and Medford rums were one of the chief alco
holic drinks of this country, but the consumption of rum has
considerably diminished through prohibition laws and the
steady advance of the use of whisky. The medicinal properties
of rum are unquestioned, and for home remedies it is still in the
lead. As a stimulant it is considered most efficacious. The Med
ford rums, made in Massachusetts, enjoy great popularity. They
are distilled on the same principle as other New England rums.

             ALES, BEERS, PORTER, STOUT
     Beer is the common word for all malt liquors. There is, how
ever, a specific distinction.
  Ale is a light-colored beer made from malt which is dried at a
low heat, and water.Pale die is made from the palest or lightest-
                         INTRODUCTORY                           29

 colored malt. Beer is rather darker in color and is made of malt,
 hops, and water.
   Porter is a dark brown beer, heavy in body.
   Stout is beer of a stouter and heavier quality than porter. It
is brewed from the high-dried malt and is treated in the same
way as porter. London and Dublin stouts are considered the
best.
   Root beer is a beverage containing the extracts of various roots,
such as dock, dandelion, sarsaparilla, and sassafras.
   Ginger ale is an effervescent drink very similar to ginger beer.
It ranks, however, as an aerated-water beverage.
  Malt extracts are concentrated, unfermented infusions of malt.
They are considered most efficacious in furthering nutrition.

        Hotv a Liquor-Dealer Can Tell What a Barrel
                    of Beer is Worth to Him
  A barrel of ale or beer contains 315/2 gallons, according to the
Internal Revenue Laws; and there are 3,968 ounces in a barrel.
  This table shows the number of different-sized glasses and
the amount of money which should be expected from one
barrel;

        8-oz. glasses 496, at 5c. per glass            $24.80
        9-0Z. glasses 440, at 5c. per glass             22.00
    10-oz. glasses 396, at 5c. per glass                19.80
    11-oz. glasses 360, at 5c. per glass                18.00
    12-0Z. glasses 330, at 5c. per glass                16.50

  Draught stout or beer when tapped, if wanted for quick use,
should have a porous vent-peg put in the bung and be left
a short time to clear. If the draught is slow, give it time to fine
without venting.
  The beer cellar should be lofty, dry, and well ventilated.
30                   JACK S MANUAL

                               GIN


  Gin, a contraction of Geneva, derives its name from the
French genievre (juniper). Originally it was a national alco
holic beverage in Holland, although juniper berries do not
grow in that country, but always had to be imported from other
countries of Europe.
  Holland gin, as we know it in this country, tastes and smells
strongly of juniper berries and is known as a very valuable
medicine, having a purifying effect on the kidneys if taken
in moderation.
  The materials used for making the spirit are barley and rye
malt and rye. When ground, these are mixed with water and
some yeast and allowed to ferment. The first result is the pro
duction of yeast. The yeast having been taken the fermentation
continues for some time; the wash, then having the consistency
of thin pea-soup, is put into stills, and the first distillation takes
place. This distillation is then redistilled, and juniper berries
and sometimes hops are added. When distilled again, the prod
uct is Holland gin, ready for shipment.
  Years ago distillers in Holland gradually started to reduce
the quantity of juniper berries in the distillation of gin for
home consumption as a beverage, and as the public seemed
to like this, they kept reducing the quantity until at last no
juniper berries were used, though it is sold and consumed in
Holland as gin {jenever).
  Only in the best cafes in large cities do they keep some gin
with juniper flavor. He who wants this has to ask for"gebeidde
jenever." which means gin distilled with juniper berries.
  The popular taste in England also seems to run to the ex
clusion of the juniper flavor, hut the English distiller, instead
of leaving the juniper berries out, reduces the quantity used and
adds a number of other ingredients, the flavor of which almost
covers the juniper flavor.
  This English product is known when sweetened as Old Tom
gin, and when unsweetened as dry gin. Judging from the in-
                     INTRODUCTORY                             3I

crease in consumption in this country, especially of dry gin, it
seems that the American public likes this combination. It is
largely consumed as a beverage in the gin fizz, the gin rickey,
and various cocktails.



                          ALCOHOL


  Alcohol (ethyl) is a product of vinous fermentation, obtained
by distillation. It is highly inflammable and burns without
smoke or residue. Its normal proof is about 192%.

                CELLAR      MANAGEMENT


                     Cellar Tetnperature
   The most desirable place for the storage of wine is an
underground structure. The walls should be thick, with double
doors, and the floor dry and concreted. Hot-water pipes, sky
lights, or badly fitting doors are most detrimental, as they are
destructive to a uniform temperature. There should, however,
be an abundance of ventilation. The thermometer should be
kept at about 56° Fahrenheit, which should not vary more
than two or three degrees upon either the hottest summer or the
coldest winter day. Excessive heat or cold destroys the life of
the wine. A flaming gas-jet is not advisable if ventilation is in
sufficient, because when lighted, the temperature rises, creating
too much heat near the top of the cellar; and when extinguished,
the temperature quickly falls.


                           Binning
  There should be only three tiers or bins in the cellar. The
bottles should be placed in them with their noses inclined, if
anything, a little downward, in order to insure the corks being
always kept wet with the wine. The bottles should look as neat
32                   JACK S MANUAL

and regular as it is possible to make them. Carelessness in bin
ning will, of course,lead to much breakage. Examine each botde
to see that it is properly corked and that there is no leakage be
fore binning away, although an infinitesimal leakage may be,
perhaps, not detrimental, but the reverse. The botdes should not
be laid down in the bin unless in good condition, and if not
clear, must be stood up for twenty-four hours until the deposit
has been precipitated, to prevent its settling in the neck of the
botde and coming into the decanter when decanted.
  Stout young wines of good quality obtain a maturity and
generous flavor by being binned in places of moderate warmth,
provided, of course, that they are not kept there too long; but
champagnes, Rhine wines, and Moselles should be kept in a
cool place.

                           Decanting
  Before filling decanters they should be, of course, thoroughly
clean inside and out, and the mouth of the wine bottle very
carefully wiped to remove all the exudation which will be found
adhering to it; this should insure the wine's being served in
perfect condition, for even the slightest cloudiness destroys that
delicacy of flavor which is its chief charm.
  To extract the cork without shaking the wine, the bottle
must be taken carefully by the neck with a steady hand and the
corkscrew inserted in the exact centre of the cork, with the
bottle lying in a horizontal position.
   Use no strainer, but place a candle in such a position that
its light will shine through the wine as it passes between the
botde and the decanter. As soon as any sediment appears, the
operation must be stopped at once so that none of it will get
into the decanter.
     No wine should be served at table that is defective or"corky"
(a term to indicate wine that has been tainted by the sap of the
cork wood), which is easily detected by the smell.
  All wines throw a deposit — rich wines more than others.
                         INTRODUCTORY                         33

The crust of port wine of only one or two years' formation is
naturally not so firm as of that which has been kept for a longer
period. Dry wines take longer to mature than rich.
  Port wine should be decanted at the bin in the cellar, from
half an hour to two hours before it is wanted, the decanter being
placed in the dining-room after it is filled, and served at the
temperature of the room.


    WHEN       AND HOW       TO SERVE BEVERAGES

   Appetizer. — Dry pale Sherry, plain or with a dash of bit
ters. Vermouth plain or cocktails.
  With Oysters. — Rhine wine, Moselle, dry Sauternes, Chablis,
or Capri. Cool.
  With Soup. — Sherry, Madeira, or Marsala. Cool.
  With Fish. — Sauternes, Chablis, Rhine wine. Moselle,
white Corvo Capri, Brolio.
  With Entrees. — Claret or Chianti. Temperature of room.
  With Roast. — Claret, Burgundy, or Chianti. Temperature
of room.
  With Game.— Champagne (cold); old vintage champagne,
cool.
  With Game. — Red Burgundy. Temperature of room.
  With Pastry. — Madeira, cool.
  With Cheese. — Port. Temperature of room.
  With Fruit. — Tokay, Malaga, or muscat. Temperature of
room.

  With Coffee. — Brandy or cordials. Temperature of room.

  If you do not wish to serve such a variety, use the following:
  Either sherry or sherry and bitters, vermouth, or cocktails
as an appetizer.
  Either Rhine wine. Moselle, Sauternes, Chablis, or Capri
with oysters and fish.
  Either sherry, Madeira, or Marsala with soup.
34                 JACKSMANUAL

  Either champagne, claret, Burgundy, Chianti, or whisky
highballs throughout the meal.
  Either brandy or cordials after dinner.
  Either ale or stout with oysters, fish, cold meats, steaks,
chops, or bread and cheese.


                           NOTE


   There is nothing like good advice if only people will take
it. An intelligent comprehension of the action of the various
alcoholic liquors will do more to advance the cause of temper
ance than a vigorous adhesion to a dogma. Both wines and
spirits have undoubtedly their legitimate place in the sustenta-
tion of healthy and diseased organisms, and form the com
monest of all household remedies for a large number of ail
ments. Therefore the few words upon their dietetic utility will
not have been out of place.
  As a rule the vigorous frame and perfect digestion of a
healthy young or middle-aged person requires only a very
moderate allowance, but in failing health and disease the uses
of wines and spirits are invaluable and numerous. Possibly,
however, the differences in their effects are not yet under
stood, either by the public or even by the majority of medical
men, as their action is greatly controlled by their different
combinations.
  If they are taken with suitable food and in proper quantities,
absorption is more gradual, and, being diluted, they unques
tionably aid the digestion and assimilation of food. Recogniz
ing that these are beverages of ordinary life, their selection
must be carefully made, with a due regard to purity as well as
to the idiosyncrasies of the consumer.
RECIPES
                                            • ^.

                                            '1:^
A),-'/-




                 U^-J
          ■•I'          iv



                 VI i'' Kn,% V
                 M        , ' ff.



                                    3ii^^
                            Cobblers




                    CATAWBA       COBBLER

1 teaspoonful of sugar
2 wineglassfuls of Catawba wine
  Fill glass with fine ice. Dress with fruits in season, and serve
with straws.



                CHAMPAGNE           COBBLER

   tahlespoonful of sugar
I slice of orange
I slice of lemon peel
Fill glass one-third full of fine ice and fill with champagne.
  Dress with fruits in season. Serve with straws.



                     CLARET     COBBLER
1 teaspoonful of sugar
2 slices of orange
2 slices of lemon
yi glass of cracked ice
Fill glass with claret
   Stir well with spoon, ornament with fruits in season, and
serve with straws.


                     HOCK     COBBLER
  Prepare same as Claret Cobbler, substituting Hock wine
instead.
38                   jack's manual

                 PORT      WINE     COBBLER

2 teaspoonfuls of sugar
Water to dissolve sugar
100% port wine
  Fill glass with cracked ice. Stir well with spoon, trim with
fruits in season, and serve with straws.

                RHINE      WINE     COBBLER

             (Use large bar glass half full of ice)
I tablespoonful of sugar
I jigger mineral water
  Fill glass with Rhine wine. Add ice, stir well, ornament with
fruit, and serve with straws.

                  SAUTERNE        COBBLER
I teaspoonful of sugar
Vz glass cracked ice
  Fill glass with sauterne wine. Stir with spoon, ornament
with fruits in season, and serve with straws.

                    SHERRY      COBBLER

Yz teaspoonful of sugar
100% sherry wine
   Stir with spoon until sugar dissolves. Fill glass with cracked
ice. Ornament with mint and fruits in season, add a little port
wine on top, and serve with straws.

                   WHISKY       COBBLER
I teaspoonful of sugar
100% whisky
I teaspoonful of fine apple syrup
  Fill glass with cracked ice. Stir with spoon, dress with fruits
in season, and serve with straws.
                                 Coc}{tails




                       ABSINTHE       COCKTAIL
    75% absinthe
    I dash orange and angostura bitters
    I dash anisette
      Shake well. Serve.


                        ADONIS      COCKTAIL
    2 dashes orange bitters
•   40% sherry
    60% regular vermouth
      Stir.

                       ALASKA       COCKTAIL
    I dash orange bitters
    40% yellow chartreuse
    60% Tom gin

                      ALE BEANIE COCKTAIL
    50% Irish whisky
    50% dry vermouth
      Fill glass with broken ice. Stir, strain, and serve.

                      ALEXANDER COCKTAIL
    25% creme de cacao
    25% gin
    50% sweet cream
     Shake, strain, and serve.
40                    JACK S MANUAL


           ALEXANDER S SISTER            COCKTAIL

40% gin
20% sweet cream
40% creme de menthe
 Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.


                     ALLIES     COCKTAIL

50% gin
50% dry vermouth
2 dashes kiimmel
  Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.


                  ANDERSON COCKTAIL

                     {Use mixing glass)
75% 'i'T gin
25% regular vermouth
 Fill glass with cracked ice, twist piece of orange peel, frap-
pez, strain, and serve.


                      anne's delight
50% sloe gin
50% brandy
 Fill glass with cracked ice. Shake, strain into cocktail glass
and serve.


                   ANTILLES COCKTAIL
25% regular vermouth
25% dry vermouth
50% cognac
I dash orange-flower water
     Shake with fine ice. Strain and serve.
                        COCKTAILS                            41

                APPLEJACK COCKTAIL
I dash orange bitters
100% cider brandy
Fill glass with cracked ice.
  Squeeze a piece of lemon peel. Stir up with spoon, and
strain into cocktail glass. Drop medium-size olive in glass, and
serve.




           APPLEJACK COCKTAIL (sPECIAL)
70% applejack
30% grenadine
Juice of Vz lime or lemon
  Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.


                APPLE-PIE       COCKTAIL

50% rum
50% regular vermouth
4 dashes apricot liqueur
2 dashes grenadine
Juice of Vz lime
  Shake well, and strain into cocktail glass.


                 ARDSLEY COCKTAIL
50% calisaya
50% sloe gin
  Shake.


                 ARMOUR        COCKTAIL

I dash orange bitters
50% regular vermouth
50% sherry
  Stir.
42                   JACKS MANUAL


                  ASTORIA      COCKTAIL
I dash orange bitters
60% gin
40% vermouth
  Stir.

                     AUTO    COCKTAIL
40% vermouth
40% gin
20% Scotch whisky
  Shake.

                  AVIATION      COCKTAIL

75% applejack
50% lime juice
I dash absinthe
6 dashes grenadine syrup
  Shake.

                  BACARDI      COCKTAIL
50% Bacardi rum
25% regular vermouth
25% dry vermouth
  Fill glass with broken ice. Stir, strain, and serve.

               BALLANTINE COCKTAIL
1 dash absinthe
40% vermouth
60% dry gin
  Shake.
                  BAMBOO       COCKTAIL
50% sherry wine
50% vermouth
I dash orange bitters
Half glass ice
  Stir, strain, and serve.
                         COCKTAILS                           43


                  BARACCAS        COCKTAIL
25% Fernet Branca
75% regular vermouth
  Fill glass with ice, stir, strain, and serve.


              BARBARY        COAST     COCKTAIL

40% gin
40% Scotch
20% creme de cacao
I tablespoonful sweet cream
Cracked ice
  Serve in highball glass.

                    BARRY      COCKTAIL
          {A very popular drin\ in San Francisco)
Place in a small glass a piece of ice.
4 dashes bitters
50% Plymouth gin
50% regular vermouth
I piece twisted lemon peel
5 drops creme de menthe
  Stir well, strain into a small glass, and serve with ice water.

                    BATH      COCKTAIL
4 dashes Picon bitters
50% Old Tom gin
50% regular vermouth
  Fill glass with cracked ice, stir, strain, and serve.

              BEADLESTONE COCKTAIL
50% Scotch whisky
50% dry vermouth
  Shake.
44                     JACK S MANUAL

                      BEALS     COCKTAIL
50% Scotch whisky
25% dry vermouth
25% regular vermouth
  Shake. Serve in whisky glass.

                     BEAUTY      COCKTAIL

50% dry gin
25% dry vermouth
25% regular vermouth
White o£ an egg
I dash of absinthe
I spoonful syrup
  Shake, strain, and serve.


                 BEAUTY SPOT          COCKTAIL
10% orange juice
20% regular vermouth
20% dry vermouth
50% dry gin
I dash grenadine syrup

                    BELMONT        COCKTAIL
40% grenadine
60% gin
I teaspoonful sweet cream
  Shake well, and strain into cocktail glass.

                       BENZ COCKTAIL
90% dry vermouth
10% absinthe
2 dashes maraschino
     Fill glass with cracked ice, shake, strain, and serve.
                         COCKTAILS                         45


        between-the-she£ts cocktail
70% brandy
20% Cointreau
10% rum (Jamaica)
Juice of half a lemon
  Shake well, and strain into cocktail glass.


                    BIJOU^ COCKTAIL
   glass filled with cracked ice
50% green chartreuse
40% regular vermouth
10% dry gin
 Stir well with spoon and, after straining into cocktail glass,
add cherry or small olive and 2 dashes of lemon juice on top,
and serve.

                    BILLIN COCKTAIL
60% sloe gin
40% Plymouth gin
Fill glass with broken ice.
  Stir, strain, and serve.


                       BIRD   COCKTAIL
40% brown curagao
60% brandy
  shake well.


                    BISHOP     COCKTAIL
100% Jamaica rum
I teaspoonful syrup
I teaspoonful claret
I dash lemon juice
  Shake, strain, and serve.
46                    jack's manual

               BISHOP     POTTER      COCKTAIL
2 dashes orange bitters
2 dashes calisaya
25% dry vermouth
25% regular vermouth
50% dry gin
  Stir well.


                  BISMARCK COCKTAIL
2 dashes angostura bitters
I dash absinthe
100% rye whisky
Piece of ice in glass
54 slice of orange
  Stir and serve.



               BLACK      HAWK COCKTAIL
50% rye whisky
50% sloe gin
  Fill glass with ice. Stir, strain, and serve in cocktail glass.


                BLACKSTONE          COCKTAIL

25% regular vermouth
25% dry vermouth
50% dry gin
1 piece orange peel
  Shake.



           BLACKSTONE COCKTAIL, NO. I
25% regular vermouth
75% gin
  Shake. Squeeze lemon peel on top.
                        COCKTAILS                         47

           BLACKSTONE COCKTAIL, NO. 2
                  {Special Blac^stone)
40% dry vermouth
60% dry gin
 Serve with orange peel on top.

   BLACKSTONE COCKTAIL, NO. 3 (sPECIAl)
I dash absinthe
40% dry vermouth
60% dry gin
 Serve with lemon peel on top.

              BLACKTHORNE COCKTAIL
Fill mixing glass    full fine ice.
1 spoonful of syrup
Juice of 54 lemon
2 dashes orange bitters
50% regular vermouth
50% sloe gin
 Stir ingredients thoroughly, strain into cocktail glass, and
serve.

                  BLANCHE       COCKTAIL
40% Cointreau
20% anisette
40% Curasao
  shake well and strain into cocktail glass.

         BOBBIE BURNS COCKTAIL (fOR TWo)
I teaspoonful orange juice
I teaspoonful maraschino
  Crush one lump of sugar
50% Scotch
50% regular vermouth
 Shake.
48                     jack's manual

                      BOGERZ COCKTAIL
Juice of half a lime
75%         gin
25% dry vermouth
  Fill glass with broken ice. Stir, strain, and serve.


                       BOLES COCKTAIL
25% dry vermouth
25% regular vermouth
50% dry gin
  Ice. Stir. Piece of orange peel. Serve in old-fashioned glass.


                      BONNET COCKTAIL
Juice of one lime
50% benedictine
50% dry vermouth
I piece of ice
1 slice of pineapple
     Stir. Top off with carbonic and serve.


                       BOOBY COCKTAIL
40% dry gin
10% grenadine syrup
50% lime juice
  Shake well with fine ice and serve.


                      bornn's cocktail
I dash cura9ao
50% dry gin
50% regular vermouth
     Stir, strain, and serve.
                          COCKTAILS             49


                    BRANDY       COCKTAIL
 I dash angostura bitters
 100% brandy
 Yi glass cracked ice
   Stir, strain, and serve.


                     BRANT COCKTAIL
I dash angostura bitters
25% white mint
75% brandy
  Twist lemon peel on top. Shake.


                    BRIDAL COCKTAIL
I dash orange bitters
40% regular vermouth
60% dry gin
I dash maraschino
  Stir well; twist orange peel on top; serve.


                 BRIGHTON COCKTAIL
I dash orange bitters
50% regular vermouth
25% dry gin
25% Tom gin
  Stir well. Twist lemon peel, and serve.


                    BRONX COCKTAIL
50% dry gin
25% dry vermouth
25% regular vermouth
Juice of half an orange
  Fill glass with ice, shake, and strain.
50                     JACKSMANUAL

                BRONX       DRY COCKTAIL
50% dry gin
50% dry vermouth
Juice of half an orange
  Shake and serve.




             BRONX TERRACE             COCKTAIL
Juice of half a lime
50% dry gin
50% dry vermouth
 Fill glass with ice. Shake, strain, and serve in cocktail glass.


                 BROOKLYN         COCKTAIL
I dash Amer Picon bitters
I dash maraschino
50% rye whisky
50% regular vermouth
  Fill glass with ice. Stir and strain and serve.


                    BROWN       COCKTAIL

I dash orange bitters
60% rye whisky
40%       gin
  Shake, strain, and serve.


                       BRUT COCKTAIL
50% dry vermouth
25% whisky
25% calisaya
  Fill glass with cracked ice. Stir, strain, and serve.
                         COCKTAILS                         51

          BRUT COCKTAIL (FRENCH STYLe)
4 dashes angostura bitters
40% Amer Picon
60% dry vermouth
  Stir well and serve.



                    BUD S COCKTAIL
I dash orange bitters
Twist of orange peel
I dash apricot brandy
25% dry vermouth
25% regular vermouth
50% dry gin
  Fill glass with cracked ice. Shake, strain, and serve.


                   BUSCH       COCKTAIL

50% regular vermouth
50% dry gin
I teaspoonful apple brandy
  Shake, strain, and serve.


                 BUTCHER        COCKTAIL

50% Scotch whisky
25% dry gin
25% regular vermouth
  Fill glass with broken ice. Stir and strain.


                   B. V. D. COCKTAIL
10% rum
60% gin
30% dry vermouth
  Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.
52                      JACKSMANUAL


                       CABINET COCKTAIL
50% dry vermouth
50% dry gin
Slice o£ orange
  Shake, strain, and serve.


              CAFE      AU   KIRSCH COCKTAIL
I pony kirschwasser
I pony cognac
1 white of egg
I pony cold black coffee
  Frappez. Serve in claret glass.


               CAFE DE PARIS COCKTAIL
I white of egg
3 dashes anisette
I teaspoonful fresh cream
100% gin
  Shake well and strain into medium-size glass.


                       CALISAYA     COCKTAIL
100% calisaya
^ glass cracked ice
  Stir, strain, and serve.


               CALUMET CLUB COCKTAIL
3 dashes acid phosphate
I dash angostura bitters
50% Bourbon
50% regular vermouth
     Stir and serve.
                            COCKTAILS                     53

               CAMEO        KIRBY    COCKTAIL

50% dry gin
50% dry vermouth
2 teaspoonfuls raspberry syrup
Juice of half a lime
  Shake.
                  CAMPILL COCKTAIL
I dash absinthe
50% rye whisky
25% dry vermouth
25% regular vermouth
  Fill glass with cracked ice; stir, strain, and serve.

                  CAPTAIN        COCKTAIL
50% brandy
50% regular vermouth
  Fill glass with cracked ice. Stir, strain, and serve.

                       CAT COCKTAIL
2 dashes angostura bitters
50% dry vermouth
50% dry gin
  Stir. Serve with olive.


                  C. A. W. COCKTAIL

35% regular vermouth
35% dry vermouth
30% brandy
  Shake. One piece of orange peel on top.

               CHAMPAGNE           COCKTAIL
14 lump sugar
2 dashes angostura bitters
Yz pint champagne
  Dress with fruits in season and serve.
54                   JACK S MANUAL

                 CHANTECLER         COCKTAIL

  Ingredients as for Bronx Cocktail, with four dashes of grena
dine syrup.
  Shake.
                 CHAUNCEY COCKTAIL
25% brandy
25% dry gin
25% regular vermouth
25% Bourbon
  Shake.
                  CHINESE        COCKTAIL
I dash angostura bitters
3 dashes maraschino
3 dashes Curasao
50% grenadine
50% Jamaica rum
  Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.

                 CHOCOLATE         COCKTAIL
Yolk of one egg
50% yellow chartreuse
   teaspoonful powdered sweet chocolate
  Fill glass with cracked ice. Shake with shaker, strain, and
serve.

                   C. H. P. COCKTAIL

50% Campari
50% rye or brandy
 Fill with cracked ice, stir, strain into cocktail glass, and serve.

                    CHRISP COCKTAIL
I dash orange bitters
50% dry gin
50% regular vermouth
I slice orange
  Shake.
                           COCKTAILS                     55

                   CHRISTIE           COCKTAIL

2 dashes Peychaud's bitters
50% dry gin
50% dry vermouth
Fill glass with ice
   Stir, strain in glass and serve.

          CHRYSANTHEMUM                  COCKTAIL
3 dashes anisette
20% benedictine
80% dry vermouth
  Shake well, and strain into cocktail glass. Squeeze orange
peel on top.
                       CIDER    COCKTAIL
Lemon rind
2 dashes angostura bitters
I piece of ice
Yz pint of cider

                CINCINNATI COCKTAIL
Yz glass beer
Fill with soda or ginger ale. Serve.
  (This is a palatable drink for warm weather.)

                      CLARE     COCKTAIL

50% sloe gin
50% regular vermouth
Dash of brandy on top. Stir well.

                CLARENDON COCKTAIL
Mint mulled
Juice of half a lime
100% dry gin
I bottle ginger ale
  Stir slowly and serve.
56                   jack's manual

                  CLARIDGE COCKTAIL
25% gin
25% dry vermouth
25% apricot brandy
25% Cointreau
 Shake well, and strain into cocktail glass.
                   CLIFTON      COCKTAIL

I dash angostura bitters
I dash curagao
50% rye whisky
50% dry vermouth
Vz glass cracked ice
  Stir, strain, and serve.

                     CLOVE COCKTAIL
50% regular vermouth
50% sloe gin
I teaspoonful brandy
  Shake.
               CLOVER        CLUB   COCKTAIL
White of an egg
Juice of half a lime
Juice of half a lemon
Juice of half an orange
I teaspoonful raspberry syrup
100% dry gin
I sprig fresh mint
  Fill glass with broken ice; shake, strain, and serve.
               CLOVER LEAF COCKTAIL
Juice of half a lemon
White of an egg
100% dry gin
I teaspoonful grenadine syrup
  Shake well. Serve with piece of mint on top.
|W
                             COCKTAILS               57


                          CLUB    COCKTAIL

     75% gin
     25% regular vermouth
     I dash chartreuse
       Shake well, and strain into cocktail glass.

                         C. O. D. COCKTAIL
     2 dashes grenadine syrup
     100% dry gin
     I slice grape fruit
       Shake.

                         COFFEE     COCKTAIL

     r egg
     50% port wine
     50% brandy
      Shake well. Serve in Fifth Avenue glass.

                     COLD    DECK     COCKTAIL
     25% creme de menthe
     25% regular vermouth
     50% brandy
       Shake well, and strain into cocktail glass.

                     COLONIAL COCKTAIL

     50% gin
     50% grape-fruit juice
     3 dashes maraschino
       Shake well, and strain into cocktail glass.

                     COLUMBUS COCKTAIL
     60% dry vermouth
     40% angostura bitters
       Shake well.
58                   jack's manual

                     CONEY    COCKTAIL
40% dry vermouth
60% dry gin
  Shake well.



                 CONGRESS COCKTAIL
I pony brandy
I pony creme de rose
3 dashes orange-flower water
White of one egg
  Shake. Serve in claret glass.


              CONSOLIDATED COCKTAIL

75% gin
25% regular vermouth


                     COOK    COCKTAIL
Juice of one lemon
75% dry gin
25% maraschino
White of one egg
  Fill glass with broken ice; shake, strain and serve.


                 CORNELL COCKTAIL
50% dry vermouth
50% dry gin
  Shake.

                CORONATION        COCKTAIL
35% dry vermouth
35% gin
30% Dubonnet
  Serve.
                           COCKTAILS                      59

                    COTTON        COCKTAIL

 1 dash absinthe
 2 dashes orange bitters
 Twist of lemon peel
5°%     whisky
25% dry vermouth
25% regular vermouth
   Fill glass with broken ice; stir, strain, and serve.


                    CREOLE       COCKTAIL
40% absinthe
60% regular vermouth
  shake well.


                   CRESCENT        COCKTAIL
20% Amer Picon
40% regular vermouth
40% Bourbon
I teaspoonful raspberry syrup
  Shake well, strain, and serve.


                      CRIS    COCKTAIL
2 dashes maraschino
50% dry vermouth
50% dry gin
 Fill glass with ice. Stir, strain, and serve.


                    CUBAN       COCKTAIL
100% Jamaica rum
Juice of half an orange
3 dashes of gum syrup
  Fill glass with cracked ice; stir, strain, and serve.
6o                     jack's manual

                  CUSHMAN         COCKTAIL
25% dry vermouth
75% dry gin
 Fill glass with ice; shake, strain, and serve.

                  DAIQUIRI COCKTAIL
Juice of ^ lemon or J4 lime
I teaspoonful powdered sugar'
100% Bacardi rum'
  Shake well, and strain into cocktail glass.

                     DEAN     COCKTAIL
I dash Picon bitters
I dash maraschino
                                                             ♦
50% regular vermouth
50% rye whisky
 Fill glass with ice. Stir, strain into glass, and serve.'

                DELMONICO          COCKTAIL
50% dry vermouth
50% dry gin
1 orange peel
  Shake.
                   devil's cocktail
10% Devil bitters
90% dry vermouth
 Fill glass with broken ice. Stir, strain, and serve.

                DIMENSION         COCKTAIL
25% creme de menthe, white
25% brandy
50% cr^me de cacao
  Shake.
                            COCKTAILS                    6l

                     DORR     COCKTAIL
30% dry vermouth
60% dry gin
10% regular vermouth
Twist of orange peel
Vi glass fine ice
  Shake, strain, and serve.


                    DOWN COCKTAIL
I dash orange bitters
40% regular vermouth
60% gin
  Stir. Serve with olive.



                   DREAM COCKTAIL
Juice of half a lemon
Teaspoonful of sugar
75% gin
White of an egg
I dash of benedictine
  Shake. Serve in claret glass.


              DRY MARTINI COCKTAIL
50% gin
50% dry vermouth
 Fill glass with cracked ice. Stir, strain, and serve.


                DUBONNET COCKTAIL
50% gin
50% Dubonnet
 Stir well, don't shake.
62                    jack's manual

                 DUCHESS COCKTAIL

33^% regular vermouth
335/3% dry vermouth
335^% absinthe
  Shake well.

                      DUKE COCKTAIL

40% dry vermouth
60% gin
  Stir.

                  DUPLEX COCKTAIL
50% whisky
25% dry vermouth
25% regular vermouth
  Strain and serve.



             DUTCH CHARLIE S COCKTAIL
2 dashes angostura hitters
40% rye whisky
40% Dubonnet
20% regular vermouth
  Stir well.

                   EDNER      COCKTAIL
50% Dubonnet
50% (iry gin
Twist of orange peel
  Fill glass with cracked ice; stir, strain, and serve in cocktail
glass.
                 EMERALD COCKTAIL
I dash orange bitters
50% regular vermouth
50% Irish whisky
     Stir.
                         COCKTAILS                           63

                  EMERSON        COCKTAIL
Juice of half a lime
3 dashes maraschino
25% regular vermouth
50% Old Tom gin
  Shake.


                     EVANS     COCKTAIL
I dash apricot brandy
I dash curagao
I dash bitters
100% rye whisky
  Fill glass with cracked ice. Stir well and strain.



                   EWING       COCKTAIL
3 dashes angostura bitters
100% rye whisky
  Stir.



                  EXPRESS COCKTAIL
I dash orange bitters
50% regular vermouth
50% Scotch whisky
  Shake.


                 FAIRBANKS        COCKTAIL
I dash lemon juice
I dash grenadine
25% apricot
25% dry vermouth
50%               . .           .
  Shake well, strain into cocktail glass, and serve with cherry.
64                     jack's manual

               FANCY      BRANDY        COCKTAIL

                  FANCY       GIN   COCKTAIL

               FANCY       WHISKY       COCKTAIL

I dash of syrup
I dash of Curasao
I dash of angostura bitters
100% brandy, gin, or whisky, as desired
  Shake. Twist a piece of lemon peel.

                   farmer's COCKTAIL
I dash of angostura bitters
50%
30% dry vermouth
20% regular vermouth
Yi glass of cracked ice
  Frappez, strain, and serve.

                    FAVORITE COCKTAIL
Juice of one lime
3 sprigs of mint crushed
100% gin
I pint imported ginger ale
  Fill glass with cube ice and serve.

                FIFTH      AVENUE COCKTAIL
40% creme de cacao
40% apricot brandy
20% sweet cream
  Use liqueur glass and pour carefully, so that ingredients do
not mix.
              FINE AND DANDY COCKTAIL
Juice of half a lemon
50% Cointreau
50%
I dash angostura bitters
     Shake well, and strain into cocktail glass.
                         COCKTAILS                              65

                FIVE-FIFTEEN         COCKTAIL
40% curagao
50% dry vermouth
10% sweet cream
  shake well, and strain into cocktail glass.

            FLUFFY RUFFLES COCKTAIL
50% rum
50% regular vermouth
Peel o£ I lime or piece of lemon
  Shake well, and strain into cocktail glass.

                 FLUSHING         COCKTAIL
40% regular vermouth
60% brandy
I dash syrup
I dash angostura bitters
I lemon peel
  Stir. Strain into old-fashioned glass and serve.

            FOLIES BERGERE COCKTAIL
  Put a good-sized drink of rum in a large glass, with about
six strawberries crushed with mint leaves. Add the juice of an
orange,the juice of two limes with the limes, other fruit to taste,
and fill with plain soda. Iced.

                FOUR-DOLLAR         COCKTAIL
50% dry,gin
25% dry vermouth
25% regular vermouth

            FOURTH-DEGREE             COCKTAIL
33^3% dry vermouth
33^% regular vermouth
33'/3% white absinthe
  Shake well.
66                   jack's manual

            FOURTH     REGIMENT        COCKTAIL
I dash orange bitters
I dash angostura hitters
I dash celery bitters
50% whisky
50% regular vermouth
Piece of lemon peel
  Shake.
                    FOWLER      COCKTAIL
Juice of half an orange
75% <^ry gin
20% dry vermouth
5% regular vermouth
  Fill glass with ice. Shake, strain, and serve.

                   FOX SHOT COCKTAIL
20% angostura bitters
20% brandy
20% regular vermouth
40% dry gin
     Stir well.

                  FRANK    HILL COCKTAIL
50% cherry brandy
50% brandy
Twist of lemon peel
   glass of cracked ice
  Shake well in shaker, strain into cocktail glass, and serve.

                  FRANKENJACK COCKTAIL
40% gin
30% dry vermouth
10% apricot brandy
20% Cointreau
  Shake well, and strain into cocktail glass.
                           COCKTAILS                        67

           FRENCH       CANADIAN         COCKTAIL
 1 dash of absinthe
50% dry vermouth
50% Canadian whisky
  Stir well.


                 FUTURITY          COCKTAIL
2 dashes angostura bitters
50% regular vermouth
50% sloe gin
  Stir.
                   GIBSON         COCKTAIL

50% dry vermouth
50% dry gin
  Stir, strain, and serve.

                       GIN    COCKTAIL

1 dash angostura bitters
100% dry gin
54 glass cracked ice
  Stir and strain; twist a piece of lemon peel and serve.

                       GOLF      COCKTAIL
50% dry vermouth
50% dry gin
2 dashes angostura bitters
  Stir well, and strain into cocktail glass.

               GOOD     FELLOW      COCKTAIL
50% regular vermouth
50% Bourbon
I dash angostura bitters
I dash calisaya
 Stir well, strain, and serve.
68                  jack's manual

               GOOD      TIMES COCKTAIL
40% dry vermouth
60% gin
I piece of lemon peel
  Shake, and strain into cocktail glass.

                  GRAHAM         COCKTAIL
25% Fernet Branca
75% regular vermouth
Vz glass of ice
  Shake, strain, and serve in cocktail glass.

               GREEN ROOM          COCKTAIL
25% brandy
75% ^*"7 vermouth
2 dashes curagao
  Shake well, and strain into cocktail glass.

                     GRIT       COCKTAIL
50% regular vermouth
50% Irish whisky
 Shake, strain into cocktail glass, serve.

             GUGGENHEIMER             COCKTAIL
2 dashes Fernet Branca
100% regular vermouth
V2 glass cracked ice
  Shake, strain, and serve.

                    HALL COCKTAIL
35% regular vermouth
35% dry vermouth
30% dry gin
  Stir, and serve with olive.
                        COCKTAILS                         69

                   HAMERSLEY       COCKTAIL

54 of an orange
2 dashes maraschino
25% regular vermouth
75% gin
  Frappez, strain into glass, and serve.

                   HAMILTON       COCKTAIL
75% Dubonnet wine
25% Scotch whisky
 Fill glass with broken ice, stir, strain, and serve.

                     HART     COCKTAIL

35% dry gin
35% Dubonnet wine
30% regular vermouth
  Serve.
                    HARVARD COCKTAIL

                       (Use large glass)
2 dashes bitters
2 dashes orange curagao
50% vermouth
50% sherry
  Add ice, strain into cocktail glass, and serve with twisted
lemon peel.
                   HARVESTER      COCKTAIL
50% orange juice
50% dry gin
  Shake, strain, and serve.

                    HAVANA      COCKTAIL
I dash lemon juice
40% gin
50% Swedish punch
10% apricot brandy
  Shake well, and strain into cocktail glass.
70                   jack's manual

                HAWAIIAN         COCKTAIL
100% gin
Juice of    orange
3 dashes Curasao
  Shake well, and strain into cocktail glass.


                   HEARST COCKTAIL
1 dash angostura bitters
2 dashes orange bitters
50% dry gin
50% regular vermouth
  Serve.

                HIGHLAND COCKTAIL
50% regular vermouth
50% Scotch whisky
  Shake.

              HIGHSTEPPER          COCKTAIL
40% dry vermouth
60% dry gin
2 dashes angostura bitters
  Shake.

                  HILLARD       COCKTAIL
2 dashes angostura bitters
40% regular vermouth
60% dry gin

           HOFFMAN           HOUSE COCKTAIL
2 dashes orange bitters
50% gin
50% dry vermouth
  Shake well, and strain into cocktail glass. Squeeze lemon
peel on top.
                          COCKTAILS                          71

                  HOLSTEIN         COCKTAIL
I dash Amer Picon bitters
50% cognac
50% blackberry brandy
  Frappez, strain, and serve.

                 HOMESTEAD COCKTAIL
40% regular vermouth
60% dry gin
I slice orange
  Shake.
                 HONOLULU           COCKTAIL
54 spoonful sugar
I twist of lemon peel
Juice of Yz orange
Juice of Yz lime
I dash curagao
I dash angostura bitters
100% dry gin
  Fill glass with cracked ice, shake, strain, and serve.

                   HOWARD COCKTAIL
Ingredients as for Gin Cocktail
I dash angostura bitters on top

                   HUDSON        COCKTAIL
3 dashes orange bitters
50% gin
50% dry vermouth
  Fill glass with broken ice. Stir, strain, and serve with olive.

                   HUNTER        COCKTAIL

75%     whisky
25% cherry brandy
  Fill glass with ice, stir, strain, and serve.
72                     JACKSMANUAL

                  HURRICANE          COCKTAIL
40% rye
40%. gin
20% creme de menthe
Juice of 2 lemons
  Shake well, and strain into cocktail glass.

                       IDEAL     COCKTAIL
I piece of grape fruit
50% dry gin
25% dry vermouth
25% regular vermouth
  Fill glass with cracked ice, shake, strain into cocktail glass,
and serve.
                    IMPERIAL COCKTAIL
I dash maraschino
I dash angostura bitters
50% gin
50% dry vermouth
  Stir well, and serve with an olive.

         IMPROVED         MANHATTAN            COCKTAIL
I dash bitters
I dash maraschino
50% rye whisky
50% regular vermouth
J/2 glass cracked ice
  Stir, strain, and serve.

            IMPROVED         MARTINI COCKTAIL
I dash orange bitters
I dash maraschino
50% regular vermouth
50% dry gin _
     Fill glass with cracked ice, stir, strain, and serve.
                        COCKTAILS                    73


                  INFURIATOR       COCKTAIL

60% brandy
40% anisette
 Shake well. Strain into cocktail glass.



                      IRIS   COCKTAIL
40% lemon juice
60% dry gin
I teaspoonful sugar
3 sprigs of mint
  Shake.



                    IRVING     COCKTAIL
50% dry gin
40% dry vermouth
Slice of orange
10% calisaya
  Fill glass with ice. Frappez, strain, and serve.



                   ISABELLE      COCKTAIL
50% creme de Cassis
50% grenadine syrup
  I lump of ice in glass, and serve.



                   ITALIAN      COCKTAIL
50% regular vermouth
25% Fernet Branca
25% grenadine syrup
 Fill glass with ice. Frappez, strain, and serve.
74                    JACKS MANUAL

                JACK-RABBIT COCKTAIL
Juice of Yi orange
Vi tablespoonful grenadine
25% gin
75% regular vermouth
 Fill glass with cracked ice, shake, strain into cocktail glass,
and serve.

                   JACK ROSE COCKTAIL
10 dashes raspberry syrup
10 dashes lemon juice
 5 dashes orange juice
Juice of Yz lime
75% cider brandy
  Fill glass with cracked ice, shake and strain, fill with fizz
water, and serve.


               JACK ZELLER COCKTAIL
50% orange gin
50% Dubonnet
  Fill glass with ice, stir, strain, and serve.

                   JAPANESE COCKTAIL
2 dashes Curasao
50% regular vermouth
30% rye whisky
20% grenadine syrup
  Fill glass with ice, frappez, strain and serve.

                     JENKS COCKTAIL
I dash benedictine
50% regular vermouth
50% «lry gin
  Fill glass with ice, stir, strain, and serve with slice of pine
apple.
                           COCKTAILS                          75

                     JERSEY COCKTAIL
 I dash angostura bitters
 50% regular vermouth
 50% cider brandy
  Mix well, twist lemon peel on top, and serve in cocktail glass.

                 JERSEY LILY COCKTAIL
   Martini Cocktail with mint sprigs.

                   JIM LEE COCKTAIL
2 dashes Peychaud's bitters
2 dashes angostura bitters
50% dry gin
25% dry vermouth
25% regular vermouth
  Shake.

             JOCKEY CLUB COCKTAIL
  Same as a Gin Cocktail.


                     JOHN COCKTAIL
35% regular vermouth
35% dry vermouth
30% Holland gin
White of one egg
  Shake well.


                JOHN WOOD COCKTAIL
25% Scotch
75% regular vermouth
Juice of one lemon
I dash kiimmel
I dash angostura bitters
  Shake well, and strain into cocktail glass.
j6                  jack's manual

              JUDGE SMITH COCKTAIL
90% rye whisky
10% apricot brandy
  Fill glass with ice, stir, strain, and serve.


                  JUNKINS COCKTAIL
25% regular vermouth
75% dry gin or rye whisky in small glass
  Small piece o£ ice. Lemon peel. Small spoon.

         KENTUCKY COLONEL COCKTAIL
25% benedictine
75% Bourbon
I piece of lemon peel
  Stir well, and serve in an old fashioned glass.


      KNICKERBOCKER SPECIAL COCKTAIL
I teaspoonful raspberry syrup
I teaspoonful lemon juice
I teaspoonful orange juice
   slice of pineapple
80% rum
20% Curasao

                 LARCHMONT COCKTAIL
 50% sherry
 50% regular vermouth
   Fill glass with cracked ice, stir, and serve.

                   LA ROCHE COCKTAIL
   Take equal parts of regular vermouth, dry vermouth, and
 gin. Add the juice of an orange, frappez, and strain.
                          COCKTAILS                                  77

                   LAWHILL         COCKTAIL

 I dash anisette
 I dash maraschino
 I dash angostura bitters
50% dry vermouth
50% rye
 Shake well, and strain into cocktail glass.

                   LAWRENCE         COCKTAIL
3 dashes of Peychaud's bitters
30% dry gin
20% regular vermouth
30% dry vermouth
20% sloe gin
  Fill glass with broken ice, shake, strain, and serve.


                   LEONORA        COCKTAIL

25% orange juice
50% dry gin
25% raspberry syrup
J/2 glass cracked ice
   Frappez, strain, and serve.


                    LEOWI COCKTAIL
25% orange gin
50% dry gin
25% dry vermouth
 Fill glass with ice, stir, strain into cocktail glass, and serve.

                    LEWIS COCKTAIL
50% dry vermouth
50% gin
  Shake.
yS                    jack's manual

                    LIBERAL      COCKTAIL

1 dash Amer Picon
50% regular vermouth
50%     whisky
  jpill glass with cracked ice, stir, strain, and serve.

                LITTLE DEVIL COCKTAIL
Juice of Vz lemon
40% Cointreau
50% gin
10% rum
  Shake well, and strain into cocktail glass.

                     LOFTUS COCKTAIL
     Same as a Duchess Cocktail.


                     LONDON        COCKTAIL
100% gin
2 dashes orange bitters
2 dashes syrup
2 dashes anisette
     Shake well, and strain into cocktail glass.

                   LONE     TREE COCKTAIL

50% Plymouth gin
25% regular vermouth
25% dry vermouth
 Fill glass with ice and shake, strain, and serve in cocktail
glass.
                       LUIGI COCKTAIL
I teaspoonful grenadine
 I dash Cointreau
 Juice of half a tangerine
50% gin
50% dry vermouth
     Shake well, and strain into cocktail glass.
                             COCKTAILS               79

                        LOVE COCKTAJtL
  Martini Cocktail with white of egg.
    Shake.

                   LUSITANIA       COCKTAIL
 I dash orange bitters
 I dash absinthe
 60% dry vermouth
 40% good brandy
   Shake.

                  MAH-JONGG COCKTAIL
 40% Cointreau
 20% rum
 4°% gin
  Shake well, and strain into cocktail glass.

             MAIDEN S BLUSH COCKTAIL
I dash lemon juice
4 dashes curagao
4 dashes grenadine
100% gin
  Shake well, and strain into cocktail glass.

                   MALLORY COCKTAIL
35% brandy
35% apricot brandy
30% white creme de menthe
I dash absinthe
  Shake.

              MANHAT3;^N COCKTAIL
I dash angostura bitters'
50% regular vermouth ... .
50%  ^-whisky ■
Yz glass cracked ice
                              1                           f. ,
                                                          •   T.   W




  Stir, strain, and servd.



                                                .V
8o                     jack's manual

               MANHATTAN JR. COCKTAIL
Manhattan Cocktail with orange peel.
  Shake well.

                    MARCONI COCKTAIL
40% regular vermouth
60% apple brandy
  Shake.

                  MARGUERITE          COCKTAIL

2 dashes orange bitters
50% Plymouth gin
50% dry vermouth
I dash absinthe
  Fill glass with cracked ice. Stir up well with spoon, strain
into cocktail glass, drop olive in glass, and serve.

                  MARQUERAY COCKTAIL
Juice of /4 lime
1 dash absinthe
2 dashes grenadine syrup
I white of egg
100% dry gin
  Shake.

                  MARQUETTE COCKTAIL
40% regular vermouth
60% gin ^
I dash creme de noyaux
     Shake. Strain. Serve.


                     MARTINI COCKTAIL
I dash orange bitters
50% gin ^
50% regular vermouth
     Fill glass with ice, stir, strain, and serve.




                                                                 T>-.-
                          COCKTAILS                            8l


                MARY      GARDEN       COCKTAIL
 75% Dubonnet
 25% dry vermouth
 I dash curagao
   Fill glass with cracked ice; stir, strain, and serve.

                    MAUSER        COCKTAIL
50% regular vermouth
50% gin
I teaspoonful apple brandy
  Shake.
                McCUTCHEON            COCKTAIL
I dash orange bitters
I dash angostura bitters
50% gin
25% dry vermouth
25% regular vermouth
I dash anisette on top
  Stir well and serve.

                  McHENRY         COCKTAIL
Martini Cocktail with a teaspoonful of apricot brandy.
  Shake well and serve.


                   McLANE COCKTAIL
50% dry gin
25% regular vermouth
25% dry vermouth
I orange peel
  Shake.
              MERRY WIDOW COCKTAIL
50% Dubonnet wine
50% dry gin ^
  Fill glass with ice. Stir and strain into cocktail glass, twist
orange peel, and serve.
82                    jack's manual

              METROPOLITAN               COCKTAIL
50% dry vermouth
50% brandy
Vz glass fine ice
  Shake, strain, and serve.


 METROPOLITAN COCKTAIL (SOUTHERN STYLe)
40% regular vermouth
60% brandy
I dash orange bitters
  Serve.


                  MILL LANE COCKTAIL
Squeeze and drop Vz lime in glass
I teaspoonful o£ grenadine syrup
4 dashes absinthe
3 dashes Peychaud's bitters
100% Bacardi rum
  Fill glass with cracked ice; shake, strain, and serve.


                     MILLER       COCKTAIL

Same as a Colonial Cocktail.

                                                           WVV


                 MILLIONAIRE COCKTAIL
1 dash orange bitters                                       j',,
6 dashes curagao
75%      whisky
2 dashes grenadine syrup                                   • <"
 White of one egg
     Stir well. Serve in claret glass.                      V*
                          COCKTAILS                            83

                      MILO    COCKTAIL

2 dashes pepsin bitters
40% regular vermouth
60% dry gin
  Stir.

               MONTANA       CLUB     COCKTAIL
Use large glass, half full of ice.
2 dashes anisette
50% dry vermouth
50% brandy
 Stir with spoon, strain into cocktail glass, put in an olive, and
serve.


                    MORNING      COCKTAIL
Use large glass and fill with cracked ice.
I dash Curasao
I dash maraschino
I dash absinthe
I dash bitters
50% brandy
50% regular vermouth
  Stir with spoon, strain into whisky glass, twist of lemon peel
on top, and serve.

                      NANA   COCKTAIL
White of one egg
I teaspoonful sugar
100% hrandy
  Shake.

               NARRAGANSETT COCKTAIL
60% rye whisky
40% regular vermouth
I dash anisette
I olive
  Stir well.
84                   jack's manual

               NETHERLAND           COCKTAIL
40% Curasao
60% brandy
I dash orange bitters
  Stir well.
                  NEWMAN         COCKTAIL
3 dashes Amer Picon
50% gin
50% dry vermouth
  Shake.
                 NICHOLAS COCKTAIL
50% orange gin
50% sloe gin
 Fill glass with broken ice, stir, strain, and serve.

               NORTH POLE           COCKTAIL

75% dry vermouth
25% fresh pineapple juice
  Fill glass with broken ice, shake, strain, and serve.
  (Dampen the edge of the glass and dip in powdered sugar.)

                  NUTTING COCKTAIL
I dash angostura bitters
I dash orange bitters
40% dry vermouth
60% gin
  Shake.


  OJEN COCKTAIL (sPANISH ABSINTHE COCKTAIl)
100% Ojen absinthe in large glass of ice
  Keep dropping seltzer in glass and stir with spoon until the
outside of glass is frozen, and your cocktail is finished. Then
add a few drops of angostura bitters and strain into a cocktail
glass.
                                     COCKTAILS                            85

                    OJEN COCKTAIL (AMERICAN STYLe)
          50% Ojen absinthe
          6 clashes Peychaud's bitters
            Fill glass with cracked ice; stir with a dash of carbonic, strain,
          and serve.



                       OLD-FASHIONED            COCKTAILS

                             {Use old-jashioned glass)
          I dash angostura bitters
          I dash curagao
          piece of cut loaf sugar
          Dissolve in two spoonfuls of water.
          100% liquor, as desired
          I piece of ice in glass
            Crush sugar and bitters together, add lump of ice, and stir
          well. Decorate with '/z slice of orange, Vz slice of lemon, and
          X cherry.
            This cocktail can be made with brandy, gin, rum, rye, etc.


                           OLIVETTE        COCKTAIL
          3 dashes orange bitters
          3 dashes absinthe
          I dash syrup
          I dash angostura bitters
          50% g'"
          50% dry vermouth
            Stir well and twist lemon peel on top.

                           OLYMPIC COCKTAIL
          Juice of one orange
          50% Curasao
          50% brandy
           Shake well, and strain into cocktail glass.




.HS::..
86                  jack's manual

                      OPAL    COCKTAIL

50% absinthe
50% regular vermouth
  Shake, strain, and serve.


                    OPERA     COCKTAIL

50% Dubonnet
50% dry gin
2 teaspoonfuls creme de mandarine
  Twist orange peel on top. Shake, strain, and serve.


                    ORANGE COCKTAIL
Juice of 14 of an orange
1 dash chartreuse
75%
25% regular vermouth
 Fill glass with broken ice, shake, strain, and serve.

             ORANGE     BLOSSOM        COCKTAIL

Juice of one orange
100% dry gin
  Shake well.

                    OYSTER     COCKTAIL

                 (Use star champagne glass)
14 dozen small oysters
I dash lemon juice
1 teaspoonful tomato and chile sauce
3 dashes paprika sauce
2 dashes vinegar
I dash tabasco sauce
  Shake on top a litde salt and pepper, stir gendy with spoon,
and serve.




                                                                 .jjM
                         COCKTAILS                       87

                OYSTER         BAY   COCKTAIL

50% cura5ao
50% gin
 Yi glass ice
   Shake, strain, and serve.

                  PALMER         COCKTAIL

I dash Picon bitters
100% rye whisky
  Fill glass with broken ice, stir, strain, and serve.

                PALMETTO             COCKTAIL

               (Mixing glass half full of ice)
3 dashes angostura bitters
50% Santa Cruz rum
50% regular vermouth
  Stir well, strain into cocktail glass, and serve.

                  PANAMA         COCKTAIL
40% creme de cacao
20% sweet cream
40% brandy
  Shake well, and strain into cocktail glass.

             PAN-AMERICAN             COCKTAIL
I dash syrup
I dash lemon juice
100% rye whisky
  Shake.
                 PARADISE COCKTAIL

40% gin
60% apricot brandy
  Shake.
88                      jack's manual

             PARISIAN       BLONDE       COCKTAIL

20% sweet cream
30% curagao
50% Jamaica rum                                                %
 Shake well, and strain into cocktail glass.


                   PARISIAN       COCKTAIL

Juice of one lime
100% Dubonnet wine
  Stir.


                       parson's cocktail
80% gin
20% regular vermouth
Piece of orange peel
  Fill glass with ice. Frappez, strain, and serve in whisky glass.


                         PAT   COCKTAIL

50% gi"
40% regular vermouth
I dash curagao
I dash angostura bitters
I twist lemon peel
I piece of ice
     Stir and serve.



                       PATRICK     COCKTAIL

50% g'n
50% dry vermouth
5 drops green Breton
     Fill glass with broken ice. Stir, strain, and serve.
                       COCKTAILS                      89

                 PEACOCK       COCKTAIL

I dash Picon bitters
I dash absinthe
100% brandy
  Shake.

                 PERFECT COCKTAIL
Same as a McLane Cocktail.


                PHEASANT        COCKTAIL

50% cognac
50% gin
  Shake well.


               PHILADELPHIA COCKTAIL
Same as a Martini Cocktail, with a dash of curagao.


                PICK-ME-UP       COCKTAIL

35% cognac
35% regular vermouth
30% absinthe
  Frappez.
                   PICON COCKTAIL
80% Amer Picon
20% regular vermouth
   glass ice
  Shake, strain, twist orange peel, and serve.'

                PINE TREE COCKTAIL
35% vermouth
65% dry gin
Sprig of fresh mint
  Shake.
 go                  JACK S MANUAL


                   PING-PONG        COCKTAIL
50% sloe gin
50% creme Yvette
3 dashes lemon juice
   Shake.
                   PINK LADY        COCKTAIL
Juice of half a lime ■
50% gin
■ 50% apple jack
5 dashes grenadine syrup
  Shake well.


                    PLAZA     COCKTAIL
25% regular vermouth
75% dry gin
I slice pineapple
  Shake.


              POET S      DREAM      COCKTAIL

35% dry vermouth
65% dry gin
2 dashes orange bitters
2 dashes benedictine
  Stir.

                     POLO    COCKTAIL

35% grapefruit juice
35% orange juice
30% Tom gin
  Shake. Serve in a claret glass.

                POLO      FARM      COCKTAIL
35% dry vermouth
65% gin
  Stir. Rinse cocktail glass with brandy.
                          COCKTAILS                91

                   PORTER       COCKTAIL

10% regular vermouth
50% dry vermouth
40% gin
I spray of fresh mint
'Fill glass with ice. Stir, strain, and serve.

                   PRAIRIE      COCKTAIL
100% gin
I egg. Salt and pepper.

                   PRINCE      COCKTAIL

35% white creme de menthe
35% gin
30% regular vermouth
  Shake.
             PRINCE       HENRY      COCKTAIL
I dash orange bitters
35% regular vermouth
35% gin
30% creme de menthe, white
  Frappez.
             PRINCESS       MARY COCKTAIL
40% creme de cacao
10% sweet cream
50% gin
  shake well, and strain into cocktail glass.

                PRINCETON         COCKTAIL
Gin cocktail, with one squirt of Seltzer on top.

                  PUEBLO       COCKTAIL
Pousse Cafe
  Shake and strain.
92                   JACKSMANUAL

                 Quaker's cocktail
60% brandy
20% Jamaica rum
Juice of    a lemon
10% raspberry syrup
  Shake well, and strain into cocktail glass.

                  QUEEN S COCKTAIL
One piece of pineapple in glass
Juice of Vi an orange
50% gin
25% dry vermouth
25% regular vermouth
  Fill glass with cracked ice; shake, strain, and serve.


             RACQUET CLUB COCKTAIL
50% dry vermouth
50% gin
Orange peel on top


                  RAPHAEL COCKTAIL
50% Dubonnet
40% dry vermouth
10% gin
  Fill glass with broken ice; stir, strain, and serve.


                 RAYMOND          COCKTAIL
Two dashes chartreuse
40% dry gin
30% dry vermouth
30% regular vermouth
Twist of lemon peel
  Serve in champagne glass.
                             COCKTAILS                 93


             RAYMOND           HITCHCOCKTAIL
 Juice of half an orange
 Yz slice fresh pineapple
 100% regular vermouth
   Fill shaker or mixing glass. Shake and serve.

                   RED    LION    COCKTAIL

50% gin
40% regular vermouth
10% orange gin
 Yz glass cracked ice
  Stir, strain, and serve.

                        REIS   COCKTAIL
2 dashes angostura bitters
2 dashes absinthe
100% Old Tom gin
  Shake.
                  RICHMOND         COCKTAIL
I dash orange curacao               •
75% '^'■y vermouth
25% regular vermouth
  Fill glass with fine ice. Stir, strain, and serve.

                RIDING CLUB COCKTAIL
100% calisaya
I dash angostura
3 drops acid phosphate
  Stir.
             ROBERT BURNS COCKTAIL,
I dash absinthe
25% regular vermouth
75% Irish or Scotch whisky
  Shake well.
94                     JACK S MANUAL

                     ROBIN    COCKTAIL

3 dashes calisaya
100% Scotch whisky
  Stir well. Serve with a cherry.


                    ROB ROY    COCKTAIL
50% Scotch whisky
50% regular vermouth
3 dashes Peychaud's bitters
54 glass cracked ice
  Stir, strain, and serve.


                 ROBINSON       COCKTAIL
Juice o£ half an orange
50% dry gin
40% Dubonnet
54 glass cracked ice
  Shake, strain, and serve


               ROLLS-ROYCE COCKTAIL

I dash benedictine
25% dry vermouth
25% regular vermouth
50% gin                             ,   ,
  Shake well, and strain into cocktail glass.


                       ROSE COCKTAIL
20% orange juice
20% grenadine syrup
60% dry gin
  Shake well.
                          COCKTAILS                           95


                  ROSSINGTON        COCKTAIL
 40% regular vermouth
 60% gin
 Orange peel
   Stir well and serve,

                ROYAL SMILE          COCKTAIL
   Beat up the white of an egg with the juice of an orange. Add
 a drink of gin, shake well, and strain.

                      RUBY    COCKTAIL

90%
10% Peychaud's bitters
   Fill glass with broken ice, shake, strain, and serve.

                RUBY ROYAL COCKTAIL
50% sloe gin
50% dry vermouth
3 dashes raspberry
  Frappez. One cherry.

                   SABBATH       COCKTAIL
50% brandy
50% port wine
I egg
   pony black coffee
54 teaspoonful sugar
  Shake, strain into claret glass, and serve.

                ST. FRANCIS        COCKTAIL
50% dry vermouth
50% gin
I pimola
  Fill mixing glass or cocktail shaker with ice, shake, counting
ten, strain, and serve.
g6                   jack's manual

                 ST. JOHN COCKTAIL
Martini Cocktail made of Tom gin.

                 ST. PETER        COCKTAIL
100% dry gin
I dash lime juice
1 dash syrup
  Shake.
                    SALOME      COCKTAIL

25% regular vermouth
25% dry vermouth
50% gin
2 dashes orange bitters
  Frappez, with three celery leaves.

                 SARATOGA         COCKTAIL
3 dashes pineapple syrup
2 dashes angostura bitters
40% regular vermouth
50% brandy
10% rye whisky
  Fill glass with cracked ice. Stir, strain into cocktail glass, and
serve.

               SAVOY TANGO COCKTAIL

50% gin
50% applejack
  Shake well, and strain into cocktail glass.

                    SCHEUER COCKTAIL
                    (Serve in cocktail glass)
50% Dubonnet
50% regular vermouth
Cracked ice
  Stir and strain. Serve.
                           COCKTAILS                             97


                    SCHULKE         COCKTAIL
 Juice of half a lime
50% dry gin
25% orange gin
25% sloe gin
   Fill glass with broken ice. Stir, strain, and serve.

                        S. G. COCKTAIL
I teaspoonful grenadine
50% rye
50% lemon juice
Juice of half an orange
   Shake well, and strain into cocktail glass.

                  SHERMAN         COCKTAIL

40% regular vermouth
60% rye whisky
1 dash absinthe
  Shake.

                   SHERRY       COCKTAIL
% glassful shaved ice
2 or 3 dashes of bitters
I dash of maraschino
100% port wine
  Stir up well with spoon, strain into cocktail glass, put a cherry
into it, squeeze a piece of lemon peel on top, and serve.

                  SHONNARD        COCKTAIL

80% gin
13% dry vermouth
5% regular vermouth
   Fill glass with broken ice, shake, strain, and serve in a whisky
glass.
gS                     jack's manual

                   SIDECAR      COCKTAIL

Juice of half a lime
50% Cointreau
50% brandy
 Drop Yz of lime in shaker. Shake well, and strain into cock
tail glass.

                    SILVER     COCKTAIL

               (Use mixing glass half full of ice)
1 dash gum syrup
2 dashes orange bitters
1 dash angostura bitters
2 dashes maraschino
50% dry vermouth
50% dry gin ^
  Stir well, strain into a cocktail glass, twist piece of lemon
peel on top, and serve.



                 SIR   WALTER      COCKTAIL

              (Commonly \nown as the"Swalter")
I teaspoonful grenadine
I teaspoonful curagao
I teaspoonful lemon juice
50% brandy
50% rum
 Shake well, and strain into cocktail glass.


                   SLOE GIN COCKTAIL
75% sloe gin
25% regular vermouth
 Fill glass with ice. Stir, and strain into cocktail glass. Serve.
                         COCKTAILS                             99

                    SLOME      COCKTAIL
35% Bourbon whisky
35% French brandy
30% Dubonnet
   Frappez.


               SMALLWOOD           COCKTAIL
25% cherry cordial
25% gin
25% regular vermouth
25% dry vermouth
 Fill glass with cracked ice. Shake, strain into cocktail glass,
and serve.


                   SMITH      COCKTAIL
50% brandy
50% apricot brandy
I teaspoonful creme de menthe
  Shake, i dash absinthe on top.



                   SOCIETY     COCKTAIL

40% dry gin
60% dry vermouth
I dash grenadine syrup
  Shake.


                    SODA     COCKTAIL

I spoonful sugar
3 dashes angostura bitters
  Coat inside of glass with sugar, fill quickly with ice, add one
bottle lemon or plain soda and two slices of orange, stir, and
serve.
100                  JACKS MANUAL

                   SOUL    KISS COCKTAIL

54 teaspoonfiil sugar
50% Dubonnet
25% rye whisky
25% dry vermouth
Juice of half an orange
  Fill glass with ice. Shake with shaker and strain. Top off
with fizz water.



              SOUTH       AFRICA      COCKTAIL
50% sherry wine
I dash angostura bitters
50% dry gin
3 drops lime juice


                 SPAULDING          COCKTAIL
40% Dubonnet
60% dry gin
I teaspoonful Scotch whisky
  Frappez.

                    SPHINX       COCKTAIL
60% gin
20% regular vermouth
20% dry vermouth
  Thin slice lemon peel on top


                   STANTON        COCKTAIL
2 dashes benedictine
50% gin
50% dry vermouth
  Fill glass with ice. Stir, strain, and serve.
                          COCKTAILS                lOI


                     STAR       COCKTAIL

3 dashes Peychaud's bitters
50% regular vermouth
50% applejack
  Fill glass with ice. Stir, strain, and serve.



                    STORY       COCKTAIL
50% Boonekamp bitters
50% brandy
  Frappez, strain, and serve.



                STRAWBERRY            COCKTAIL
2 dashes orange bitters
25% strawberry syrup, or juice of 3 strawberries
I dash maraschino
75% cognac
  Shake.


                 SUNSHINE         COCKTAIL

Juice of ^ a lime
25% dry vermouth
75% g'" ,,
   teaspoonful grenadine syrup
White of an egg
  Frappez. Serve in a claret glass.


                    SWAN        COCKTAIL
Juice of Yz an orange
100% absinthe
  Shake, strain, and serve.
102                 JACKS MANUAL

                   TANGO      COCKTAIL

40% regular vermouth
60% gin
Yz teaspoonful brandy
  Shake well, strain, and serve.


                     TAXI COCKTAIL

50% dry vermouth
50% gin
2 teaspoonfuls lime juice
2 teaspoonfuls absinthe
  Frappez.

                   TIPTOP      COCKTAIL
100% dry vermouth
4 dashes benedictine
X dash angostura bitters
3 dashes orange bitters
  Shake.

                TREASURER          COCKTAIL

75% gin
25% dry vermouth
Twist of orange peel
  Fill glass with broken ice. Stir, strain, and serve.

                   TRILBY COCKTAIL

             (Use mixing glass half full of ice)
I dash orange bitters
I dash angostura bitters
50% gin
50% regular vermouth
  Stir well, strain into cocktail glass, add cherry, and float
creme Yvette on top.
                           COCKTAILS                        103

                  TROWBRIDGE         COCKTAIL

                         (In whisky glass)
I dash orange bitters
50% regular vermouth
50% dry gin
  Twist piece of orange peel and serve.

                     TUCKER       COCKTAIL

         (Use whis\y glass, twist of lemon peel in glass)
I dash angostura bitters
25% dry vermouth
75% Bourbon whisky
  One piece of ice in glass. Stir and serve.

                     TULANE COCKTAIL
50% regular vermouth
50% gin
1 teaspoonful strawberry brandy
  Shake with fine ice. Strain and serve.

                       TURF    COCKTAIL

                 (Use mixing glass half full of ice)
2 dashes absinthe
2 dashes maraschino
2 dashes orange bitters
I dash bitters
50% regular vermouth
50% dry gin
  Stir well, strain into a cocktail glass, put in an olive, and
serve.

                   TURF    CLUB     COCKTAIL

50% gin
50% regular vermouth
  Strain and serve.
104                  JACKS MANUAL

                     TURN     COCKTAIL
4 dashes Boker's bitters
100% sloe gin
  Fill glass with cracked ice. Stir, strain, and serve.


                  TUSSETTO COCKTAIL
40% sherry wine
60% dry gin
2 dashes orange bitters
  Stir.


                   TUXEDO       COCKTAIL

              (Use mixing glass half jull of ice")
I dash maraschino
I dash absinthe
3 dashes angostura bitters
50% dry vermouth
50% gin
  Stir well, strain into cocktail glass, add a cherry, and serve.


                  TWO-SPOT COCKTAIL
50% French brandy
50% brown curagao
  Shake. Strain into a cocktail glass. Twist a piece of lemon
peel on top.

                      U. C. COCKTAIL
50% dry vermouth
50% dry gin
I dash absinthe
   Shake.
                          COCKTAILS                      105

               UNION      LEAGUE      COCKTAIL
1 dash orange bitters                   '
40% port wine
60% gin
  Stir well.
                   VAN    LEE   COCKTAIL
50% dry gin
40% Dubonnet
10% Scotch whisky
  Fill glass with broken ice. Stir, strain, and serve.

                  VAN "WYCK       COCKTAIL
50% sloe gin
50% sin
2 dashes orange bitters
  Shake well.

                  VAN ZANDT COCKTAIL
I dash apricot brandy
5°%       vermouth
50% gin        . .
  Fill glass with ice. Shake, strain, and serve.

                  VERMOUTH COCKTAIL
I dash Boker's bitters
100% regular vermouth
I dash maraschino
  Fill glass with ice. Frappez, strain, and serve.

                     VIENNA COCKTAIL
50% regular vermouth
50% dry vermouth
I dash absinthe
  Frappez.
io6                  jack's manual

                    VIRGIN     COCKTAIL

             (Use mixing glass half full of ice)
3 dashes angostura bitters
2 dashes raspberry syrup
50% vermouth
50% gin
 Stir well, strain into cocktail glass, and serve.

                  WALDORF COCKTAIL
Juice of half a lemon or half a lime
50% gin
50% Swedish punch
  Shake well, and strain into cocktail glass.

           WALDORF SPECIAL COCKTAIL
Juice of one lime
100% apricot brandy
  Shake thoroughly, and serve in cocktail glass.

            WALDORF QUEEN COCKTAIL
2 slices pineapple mulled
50% dry gin
25% dry vermouth
25% regular vermouth
Small piece of orange
  Frappez well. Strain into cocktail glass and serve.

               WARD EIGHT COCKTAIL
I teaspoonful grenadine
Juice of half an orange
Juice of half a lemon
75% rye
  Shake well, and strain into cocktail glass.
                          COCKTAILS                       107

               WASHINGTON           COCKTAIL
I dash angostura bitters
I dash curagao
90% dry vermouth
10% brandy
  Fill glass with broken ice. Stir, strain, and serve.

                  WATKINS        COCKTAIL

                       (Use mixing glass)
I slice of pineapple
I slice of orange
50% dry gin
25% dry vermouth
25% regular vermouth
 Fill glass with cracked ice. Shake, strain, and serve.
                   WAXEN COCKTAIL
25% regular vermouth
25% apple brandy
25% yellow chartreuse
25% Tom gin
                  WEBSTER       COCKTAIL

Juice of half a lime
50% apricot brandy
30% dry vermouth
50% gin
  Shake well, and strain into cocktail glass.

                 WEDDING COCKTAIL
6 dashes orange Curasao
Juice of half an orange
50% dry gin
25% regular vermouth
25% dry vermouth
 Fill glass with cracked ice, shake, strain, and serve.
io8                  jack's manual

                WEST      INDIA     COCKTAIL

2 dashes angostura bitters
100% dry vermouth
2 lemon peels
  Shake.
                   WHISKY COCKTAIL
I dash angostura bitters
r dash orange curagao
100% whisky
  Fill glass with ice. Stir, strain, and serve.

           WHITE ELEPHANT COCKTAIL
40% regular vermouth
60% gin
White of egg
  Shake well, with chipped ice, strain, and serve.

                WHITE LION          COCKTAIL
I teaspoonful of sugar
50% lemon juice
3 dashes angostura bitters
3 dashes raspberry syrup
50% rum
  Shake well.

                WHITE RAT COCKTAIL
75% absinthe
25% anisette
  Shake well and strain.


                 WILLIAMS COCKTAIL
Juice of half an orange                                    '.
75% gin                                                   '• ■
25% regular vermouth
  Fill glass with broken ice, shake, strain, and serve.
                          COCKTAILS                             109

                    WONDER        COCKTAIL

40% regular vermouth
60% gin
I piece of pineapple
  Frappez.



                      YALE COCKTAIL
I dash orange bitters
I dash absinthe
100% gin
I lemon peel
  Shake.




             YANKEE PRINCE COCKTAIL
I teaspoonful orange juice
25°/^ Grand Marnier
75%
I filbert nut
  Frappez.
                                                                       M,!



                     YORK COCKTAIL
100% regular vermouth
  Juice of half a lime in glass, drop peel in glass. Fill glass with
cracked ice. Shake, strain, and serve.


                     ZAZA COCKTAIL

50% g'"
50% Dubonnet
 Fill glass with ice. Stir with spoon, strain, and serve.
110                    JACK S MANUAL

                   ZAZARAC cocktail'
(^Set old-jashioned glass in ice for three minutes. Dip rim of
                        glass in sugar.)
I dash absinthe
100% Bourbon whisky
Yi loaf of sugar
I dash Peychaud's bitters
I dash angostura bitters
Piece of broken ice in glass
  Stir, strain, and serve.


                            COLLINS

                        JOHN COLLINS
                        {Use large glass)
I tablespoonful of sugar
Juice of a lemon
Juice of half a lime
3 lumps of ice
100% Holland gin
I bottle of club soda
  Stir up well, remove the ice, and serve.

  Brandy Collins, Bourbon Collins, Irish Collins, Rum Collins,
Rye Collins, Scotch Collins, Tom Collins, same as John Collins,
except use:
  Brandy for Brandy Collins, Bourbon whisky for Bourbon Col
lins, Irish whisky for Irish Collins, Rum for Rum Collins, Rye
whisky for Rye Collins, Scotch whisky for Scotch Collins, Tom
gin for Tom Collins.
*       ★       ★        ★       ★       ★       ★   ★   ★




                              Coolers




                       (Serve in tall glasses)
                       ARDSLEY COOLER
Large piece of ice
Large spray of mint
100% dry gin
I bottle of ginger ale
  Drink with nose to mint.

                 AUTOMOBILE COOLER

100% dry gin
I pint ginger ale
I bunch of mint
I large piece of ice

                BILLY TAYLOR COOLER

100% dry gin
Juice of half a lime
I pint of club soda
I cube of ice

                BLACKSTONE COOLER
I lemon rind
100% Jamaica rum
I pint imported soda
112                   JACKS MANUAL

                      BOSTON     COOLER

Peel lemon in a long string. Fill with cracked ice. Add one
botde of sarsarparilla and serve.


                   BULLDOG        COOLER

                  {Serve in a Collins glass)
Juice of half an orange
100% gin
I pint of imported ginger ale
I lump of ice

                  BULL PUP COOLER
                  (Serve in a Collins glass)
Juice of half a lemon
100% gin
I pint of ginger ale
I lump of cube ice


               COUNTRY CLUB COOLER
50% grenadine syrup
50% dry vermouth
I pint of club soda
I lump of cube ice

                   DUNHAM COOLER
                         (Use large glass)
Peel of orange (in one long string). Place in glass.
V2 glass of fine ice
Juice of one orange
100% rye whisky
I bottle of ginger ale
   Stir slowly and serve.
                           COOLERS                             113


                       DURKEE COOLER                                  j
I lemon mulled                                                        :
I teaspocnful of powdered sugar                                       |
100% Jamaica rum
I pint of club soda                                                   |

                       EVANs' COOLER
                    (Use large thin glass)
Wineglassful of claret
Bottle of ginger ale

                    FLORADORA        COOLER

Juice of half a lime
25% raspberry
75% dry gin
I lump of cube ice
I pint ginger ale

      FLORADORA COOLER (IMPERIAL STYLe)
Juice of half a lime
100% brandy
I pint of ginger ale

              FOLIES BERGERE COOLER
  Put a good-sized drink of rum in a large glass with about six
strawberries crushed with mint leaves. Add the juice of an
orange, the Juice of two limes, and other fruit to taste. Fill with
plain soda. Iced.

                    GINGER ALE COOLER
  I lemon rind in a spiral shaped piece. Place a round piece
of ice inside of the rind, and add a pint of imported ginger ale.
114                    JACK S MANUAL

                   GRAPE JUICE COOLER
I lemon rind
Vz split of white or red grape juice
I lump of ice
I pint of soda
                       HAWAII COOLER

Rind and juice of one orange
100% rye
I pint of ginger ale

                 HILLY CROFT COOLER
I lemon rind
I lump of ice
100% Tom gin
I pint of ginger ale

                 IRISH     WHISKY COOLER
I lemon rind
100% Irish whisky
I pint club soda
1 dash angostura bitters

                    KHATURA COOLER
25% dry vermouth
25% regular vermouth
50% gin
2 dashes angostura bitters
I pint club soda
                       mint COOLER
I bunch of fresh mint. Crush lighdy.
I lump of ice
I pint of ginger ale



                                           .4
                           COOLERS                       115

                     MORAINE        COOLER

2 jiggers of Rhine wine
 Yz lemon mulled
 I lemon rind
I lump of ice
25% cura9ao
I pint of club soda

                NARRAGANSETT            COOLER

I rind and juice of an orange
100% Bourbon whisky
I pint ginger ale

              ORANGE BLOSSOM             COOLER
Juice of half an orange
100% gin
I small teaspoonful of sugar
   Collins glass. Fine ice. Dress with fruit. Fill glass with
seltzer.
                       REMSEN     COOLER

I lemon rind
100% gin
I pint club soda

                ROBERT E. LEE COOLER
I dash absinthe
Juice of half a lime
100% Scotch whisky
I pint ginger ale
             ROCKY       MOUNTAIN COOLER

I egg
I teaspoonful of sugar
Juice of one lemon
  Fill glass with cider. Grate a little nutmeg on top.
Il6                 jack's manual

                    SABBATH COOLER
50% brandy
50% regular vermouth
Juice of half a lime
I pint of club soda, with two or three sprigs of mint on top.


                SARSAPARILLA            COOLER

3 or 4 round slices of lime
Juice of half a lime
I large piece of ice
I pint of sarsaparilla


                       SCOTCH   COOLER
I lemon rind
3 large lumps of ice in Collins glass
100% Scotch whisky
I pint soda.

                     SEASIDE COOLER
Juice of one lime
100% grenadine syrup
I pint club soda


                    TERMINAL      COOLER
Large piece of ice in glass
Orange peel in a long string
Juice of half an orange
100% Dubonnet
2 dashes cura^ao
One bottle of ginger ale
  Serve with straws.
                                          COOLERS     117

                                   WHITE     COOLER

              Juice of half an orange
              50% Scotch whisky
              I dash angostura bitters
              I botde of ginger ale
                Serve in Collins glass.




^ 'Jtii V 1
*       *       ★       ★        ★     ★       *       ★       *




                             Cups




                        ADALOR       CUP

I fresh peach perforated with fork
1 pint of champagne

                            ALE CUP

I bottle of Bass ale
I gill of water
I glass of sherry
Juice of 2 lemons and the fine rind of one
I tablespoonful of castor sugar
A few leaves of fresh mint
A pinch of grated nutmeg
Crushed ice
  Remove the lemon rind well in thin fine strips, put them into
a jug, add the sherry, water, lemon juice, sugar, mint, and nut
meg. Cover and let the liquid stand for twenty minutes. Strain
into a glass jug. Add a few pieces of ice and the ale; then serve.

                       BISHOP S CUP
                       (Use glass pitcher)
50% lemon juice
100% plain syrup
100% Jamaica rum
I pint of claret or red burgundy
    Dress with fruit and mint.
                             CUPS                      119

                    bull's-eye cup
I pint o£ sparkling cider
I pint of ginger ale
100% brandy
                    BURGUNDY        CUP

                  (Use large glass pitcher)
I pony brandy
I pony brown curagao
I pony maraschino
I quart burgundy
I pint sparkling water
I long cube of ice
  Stir well and decorate with:
I lemon sliced
I orange sliced
5 or 6 pieces of pineapple
Maraschino cherries and a small bunch of green mint on top.

                   CHAMPAGNE CUP

I quart champagne
I pony of brandy
I pony of Curasao
I pony maraschino
I sliced orange
Place large piece of ice in punch-bowl
I bottle of club soda or siphon
  Stir well together, add mint, and serve.

                         CIDER CUP
I quart cider
I pony of brandy
I pony of Curasao
I pony of maraschino
I20                  JACKS MANUAL

I sliced orange
I sliced lemon
I botde of club soda or siphon
  Place large piece of ice in punch-bowl, stir well together,
add mint, and serve.


                       CLARET       CUP

I quart of claret
I tablespoonful of sugar
I pony of brandy
I pony of curagao
I pony of maraschino
I pony of Jamaica rum
I sliced orange
I sliced lemon
I bottle of club soda or siphon
  Place large piece of ice in punch-bowl. Stir well together,
and add mint.

                                                                1
          GINGER ALE CUP (wiTH LIQUOr)
       (For about six people. Glass pitcher or bowV)
100% cognac
50% maraschino
I dash benedictine
3 pints ginger ale
I long cube of ice
4 or 5 pieces of sliced orange
4 or 5 pieces of sliced pineapple
4 or 5 pieces of sliced lemon
I dash lemon juice
I bunch of mint
  Stir well and put a little powdered sugar on top. Serve in
thin glasses.
                            CUPS                            121



         GINGER ALE CUP (WITHOUT LIQUOr)
            {For party of six people. Glass pitcher^
Juice of 3 lemons
Juice of 3 oranges
100% grenadine syrup
Sugar to taste
  Frappez, and strain into pitcher.
   Add one quart of ginger ale. i long cube of ice. Dress with
fruit in season, and put a bunch of mint on top. Serve in Del-
monico glasses.


          GRAPE JUICE CUP (wiTH LIQUOR)
             (For six people. Use glass pitcher^
I pony brandy
I pony maraschino
I pony yellow chartreuse
I dash grenadine syrup
Juice of half a lemon
I long cube of ice
I quart grape juice
I pint White Rock
  Dress with fruit and mint.


         GRAPE JUICE CUP (WITHOUT LIQUOr)
Juice of 2 lemons
Juice of 2 oranges
Tablespoonful grenadine syrup
  Frappez, and strain into glass pitcher.
I long cube of ice
I quart of white or red grape juice
I pint White Rock
  Sugar to taste. Dress with fruit and mint. Stir well with long
spoon.
122                   JACKS MANUAL


                  LORD   LATOUNNE       CUP

                      (Use glass pitcher^
I lemon rind, cut thin
100% sherry
I sprig of mint
Vz dozen maraschino cherries
I quart of claret
I pint White Rock
  Stir well and serve in Delmonico glass.

                       MOSELLE CUP
I quart Moselle
I pony of brandy
I pony of Curasao
I pony of maraschino
I sliced orange
I sliced lemon
I botde of club soda or siphon
  Place large piece of ice in punch-bowl. Stir well together,
add mint, and serve.

                    RHINE    WINE CUP
I quart of Rhine wine
I pony of brandy
I pony of Curasao
I pony of maraschino
I sliced orange
I sliced lemon
I bottle of club soda or siphon
  Place large piece of ice in punch-bowl. Stir well together,
add mint, and serve.

                      SAUTERNE CUP
I quart of sauterne
I pony of brandy




                                                                'Ah
                                   CUPS                       123

     I pony of Curasao
     I pony of maraschino
     I sliced orange
     I sliced lemon
     I botde of club soda or siphon
       Place large piece of ice in punch-bowl. Stir well together,
     add mint.


              SAUTERNE CUP (SOUTHERN STYLe)
                          {Use large glass pitcher)
     100% lemon juice
     50% French brandy
     50% curagao
     50% benedictine
     I long, large cube of ice
     I quart sauternes
     V2 lemon sliced
     I orange sliced
     4 or 5 slices of pineapple
     Maraschino cherries
     I pint White Rock
       Stir well and put one bunch of green mint on top. Serve in
     Delmonico glasses.

                          Turk's neck cup
     I pint of champagne
     I pint of French claret
     I long cube of ice. Dress with fruit and mint.

                             VELVET CUP

                           {Use glass pitcher)
     I pint champagne
     I pint stout
     I long cube of ice
      (Dark beer may be used in place of stout if preferred.)




jM
                            Daisies




                       BRANDY DAISY
Juice of half a lemon
Juice of half an orange
Juice of half a lime
10% raspberry syrup
100% brandy
I lump of ice
  Fill with fizz water and serve.



    p

                  BYRRH      WINE DAISY
Juice of % of an orange
Juice o£ Yz a lemon
10% raspberry syrup
90% Byrrh wine
  Fill glass with broken ice. Shake and strain. Fill glass with
fizz water.



                   CHOCOLATE DAISY
Juice of I lime
35% brandy
35% port
30% raspberry syrup
 Serve in goblet, with fine ice. Fruit.
                             DAISIES                          125


                            GIN   DAISY

  Juice of half a lime
  Juice of half a lemon
  Juice of half an orange
  100% gin
  10% raspberry syrup
   Fill glass with fine ice. Shake with shaker, strain into glass,
 fill with siphon, and serve.

                        GINGER DAISY
 Juice of half a lime
 Yz teaspoonful of sugar
,50% dry gin
 50% brandy
   Shake in fine ice. Pour into goblet. Decorate with fruit and
 mint.

                     HIGHLAND DAISY
 Juice of half a lemon
 Juice of half a lime
 Juice of half an orange
 100% Scotch whisky
 Syrup
   Serve in goblet with fine ice. Decorate with fruit.

                        JUNE DAISY
                            {Large glass)
 10 dashes raspberry syrup
 Juice of half a lemon
 Juice of half an orange
 Juice of half a lime
 100% dry gin
   Fill glass with fine ice. Shake well together. Fill glass with
 ginger ale. Stir with spoon carefully, and serve.
126                    jack's manual

                          RITZ DAISY
100% Ritz
6 dashes raspberry syrup
Juice of I lime
Juice of half an orange
Juice of half a lemon
  Fill with cracked ice, shake well, and strain. Fill with fizz
water and serve.

                          RUM   DAISY

I teaspoonful sugar
I teaspoonful raspberry syrup
Juice of half an orange
Juice of half a lime
Juice of half a lemon
75% rum
  Fill glass with cracked ice. Shake and strain, fill glass with
fizz water, and serve.

                         STAR    DAISY

Juice of half a lime
35% dry gin
35% applejack
30% grenadine syrup
  Serve in goblet, with fine ice. Fruits.

                       WHISKY DAISY
I teaspoonful of sugar
Juice of half an orange
Juice of half a lemon
Juice of half a lime
25% raspberry syrup
75% whisky
  Fill glass with cracked ice. Shake and strain, fill glass with
fizz water, and serve.
                         Egg Noggs




                BALTIMORE EGG             NOGG
Yolk of an egg
I tablespoonful of sugar
Add a litde nutmeg and beat to a cream.
50% brandy
25% Madeira wine
3 lumps of cracked ice
25% of Jamaica rum
 Fill glass with milk, shake well, strain into a large glass,
and serve.
                 BOWL OF EGG             NOGG

                         (Jor parties)
I pound of sugar
10 eggs. Yolks should be separated. Beat yolks with sugar
    until dissolved.
Pour into one pint of brandy.
I wineglass of Jamaica rum
3 quarts of rich milk
  Mix ingredients well with a ladle and sdr continually while
pouring in milk, to prevent from curdling. Then beat whites
of eggs and put them on top of mixture.

                   BRANDY EGG NOGG
I egg
100% brandy
I dash Jamaica rum
128                 jack's manual
I spoonful of sugar
I glass of milk
  Shake and strain. Dash of nutmeg on top.


                     HOT    EGG    NOGG
I tahlespoonful of sugar
I fresh egg
100% brandy
  Fill glass with hot milk. Shake thoroughly with shaker, strain,
grate nutmeg on top, and serve.

                  IMPERIAL EGG          NOGG
I teaspoonful of sugar
I fresh egg
90% brandy                             «
10% Jamaica rum
  Fill glass with milk. Shake well, strain, grate nutmeg on
top, and serve.

                     RUM     EGG    NOGG
100% Jamaica rum
I teaspoonful of sugar
I egg
I glass of milk
  Shake, and strain. Dash of nutmeg on top.

                  WHISKY        EGG   NOGG
100% Bourbon whisky
I dash Jamaica rum
I egg
I teaspoonful of sugar
I glass of milk
  Shake and strain. Dash of nutmeg on top.
                            Fizzes




             AMER PICON POUFFLE FIZZ
100% Amer Picon
I pony grenadine syrup
I white of egg
  Shake, strain, and fill glass with siphon.
                     ANGOSTURA FIZZ
                       (Sar glass)
Tablespoonful powdered sugar
Juice of half a lemon
Broken ice
Yz pony of bitters
White of an egg
Tablespoonful of cream
  Shake well with shaker, strain, and serve.

                       BAYARD FIZZ
Juice of 154 lemons
I teaspoonful of sugar
100% dry gin
I dash of maraschino
I dash of raspberry syrup
  Shake, strain, and fill glass with siphon.
              BIRD OF PARADISE FIZZ
Same as Silver Fizz.
  Add I dash of raspberry syrup.
130                  JACK S MANUAL


                     BISMARCK        FIZZ

Juice of half a lemon
I teaspoonful of sugar
I egg
100% sloe gin
  Shake, fill glass with siphon, and serve,

                        BRANDY     FIZZ

1 teaspoonful of sugar
Juice of one lemon
100% brandy
  Fill glass with ice. Shake well with shaker, strain into glass,
fill with seltzer, and serve.

                     CANADIAN        FIZZ
  teaspoonful of sugar
100% gin
Juice of one lime
I fresh egg
  Fill glass with fine ice. Shake well with shaker, strain, fill
with fizz water, and serve.

                      CHICAGO FIZZ

Juice of half a lemon
I teaspoonful of sugar
50% Jamaica rum
50% port wine
White of one egg
  Shake, strain, and fill glass with siphon.
                        CLARET FIZZ
Juice of half a lemon
I teaspoonful of sugar
I glass of claret
  Shake and strain. Fill glass with fizz water and serve.
                              FIZZES                              131


                          DAISY      FIZZ
Juice of half a lemon
Juice of half a lime
25% of orange juice
100% brandy
  Shake, strain, fill glass with fizz water and serve.

                       DIAMOND         FIZZ
Same as a Gin Fizz.
   Fill glass with champagne.

                 ELSIE FERGUSON FIZZ
Half a lemon crushed
2 strawberries crushed
100% dry gin
2 teaspoonfuls of grenadine syrup
10 dashes of cream
  Shake, strain into fizz glass, and fill with siphon.
                        GALVEZ FIZZ
Juice of one lemon
I teaspoonful of sugar
4 dashes of raspberry syrup
100% dry gin
White of one egg
I dash of orange-flower water
100% cream
  Shake very well, strain into lemonade glass, and fill with
siphon.
                           gin fizz
I teaspoonful of sugar
Juice of one lemon
I dash of cream
100% dry gin
  Fill glass with fine ice. Shake, strain, fill glass with fizz water,
and serve.
132                  JACKS MANUAL


                        GOLDEN      FIZZ

% tablespoonful of sugar
Juice of one lemon
100% dry gin
Yolk of one egg
% glass of fine shaved ice
  Shake well in shaker, fill glass with fizz water, mix well with
spoon, and serve.

                 GRENADINE GIN            FIZZ

Juice of half a lemon
25% grenadine syrup
100% Tom gin
  Shake well, strain into fizz glass, and fill with siphon.

                    HOLLAND GIN FIZZ
Juice of half a lemon
I teaspoonful of sugar
100% Holland gin
I dash white creme de menthe
  Shake well and strain into fizz glass. Fill glass with siphon.

                    IRISH    WHISKY FIZZ

Juice of half a lemon
I teaspoonful of sugar
100% Irish whisky
  Shake well and strain into fizz glass. Fill glass with siphon.

                            JAP FIZZ
Juice of half a lemon
I teaspoonful of sugar
White of one egg
50% port wine
50% rye whisky
  Shake well, strain into fizz glass. Fill with siphon.
                                    FIZZES                           133

                             KING     COLE    FIZZ

         Gin Fizz with grenadine syrup. Frappez.

                           LALLA     ROOKH      FIZZ
         Juice of half a lime
         I teaspoonful of sugar
         35% vanilla
         35% brandy
         30% Jamaica rum
         I teaspoonful of cream
           Shake, strain, and fill with siphon. .

                          MERRY      WIDOW       FIZZ
         Juice of half a lemon
         Juice of half an orange
         I teaspoonful of sugar
         100% Dubonnet
         White of one egg
           Shake well, strain into lemonade glass, fill with fizz water,
         and serve.

                         MORNING GLORY FIZZ

         Juice of one lime
         Juice of half a lemon
         I teaspoonful of sugar
         White of one egg
         100% Scotch whisky
         ^ glass of cracked ice
          Shake well with shaker, strain, and fill glass with fizz water.

                          NEW      ORLEANS FIZZ
         14 teaspoonful of powdered sugar
         Juice of half a lime
         Juice of half an orange
         Juice of half a lemon




><U.tL
134                   JACKS MANUAL

Orange flower
White of an egg
75% gin
I teaspoonful of cream
  Fill glass with broken ice, shake for five minutes, strain, and
serve.

                         REMUS     FIZZ

Juice of half a lemon
I dash grenadine syrup
I dash of lime juice
I teaspoonful of sugar
100% dry gin
50% fresh cream
  Shake very well. Strain into lemonade glass, and fill with fizz
water.

                         RITZ FIZZ
Juice of one lemon                                                   •m
I teaspoonful of sugar
100% Ritz
  Fill glass with ice, shake well, and strain into highball glass.
Fill with carbonic.
                         ROYAL FIZZ
I teaspoonful of sugar
Juice of a lemon
100% dry gin
I egg
  Fill glass with cracked ice. Shake well, strain, fill with fizz
water, and serve with straws.

                        RUEBLI FIZZ
Juice of half a lemon
Juice of half an orange
50% grenadine syrup
100% Rhine wine
  Shake, strain, fill glass with siphon.
                           FIZZES                           135

                      ST. CROIX      FIZZ
I teaspoonful of sugar
Juice of a lemon
100% of St. Croix rum
 Fill glass with broken ice. Shake and strain. Fill glass with
fizz water and serve.



                SCOTCH      WHISKY FIZZ
Juice of a small lemon
I teaspoonful sugar
100% Scotch whisky
  Shake, strain into glass, and fill with siphon.


                         SILVER FIZZ
Juice of one lemon
I spoonful of sugar
White of an egg
50% dry gin
  Fill glass with cracked ice, shake, strain, and fill with fizz
water.



                      SLOE GIN FIZZ
Same as Gin Fizz, but substitute sloe gin for dry gin.


                    SNOWBALL FIZZ
100% grapefruit juice
50%
50% Rhine wine
2 dashes orange-flower water
I white of egg
I teaspoonful of sugar
  Shake very well and strain.
136                   jack's manual

                     STRAWBERRY          FIZZ
Juice of half a lemon
I spoonful of sugar
/4 dozen strawberries
100% gin
, Shake, strain, and fizz with siphon.


                          TOM     FIZZ

  Same as Gin Fizz, but substitute Tom gin for dry gin.


                         VIOLET FIZZ
Juice of half a lemon
I teaspoonful of sugar
75% ^"7 gin
25% creme de violet
 Frappez, strain, and fizz with siphon.


         WALDORF FIZZ (WITHOUT LIQUOr)
Juice of an orange
Juice of a lemon
I egg
100% Bourbon
I teaspoonful of sugar
  Shake, strain, and fill glass with siphon.

                      WHISKY FIZZ
Juice of half a lemon
I teaspoonful of sugar
100% rye or Bourbon whisky
  Shake, strain, and fill glass with fizz water.
                                     FIZZES                          137

                        WHISKY GRENADINE FIZZ
           Juice of half a lemon
           40% grenadine syrup
           60% rye or Bourbon whisky
             Shake well, strain into fizz glass, and fill with siphon.




                                                                           * I




'"V-

    4 "m
'    I •

 'f
                             Flips




                       BRANDY FLIP
I teaspoonful of sugar
I fresh egg
100% brandy
Vi glass cracked ice
  Shake well with shaker and strain; grate a litde nutmeg on
top.
                         BUSSE    FLIP
100% sloe gin
1 yolk of egg
2 dashes of apricot brandy
/4 teaspoonful of sugar
  Shake well with fine ice. Strain into claret glass.
                    CHOCOLATE FLIP
50% cognac
50% sloe gin
I yolk of egg
I teaspoonful of sugar
  Shake well with fine ice, strain, grate nutmeg on top, and
serve.

                       COFFEE      FLIP
50% brandy
50% port
I egg
I teaspoonful of sugar
  Shake well with ice. Grate nutmeg on top and serve.




                                                               Mi
                            FLIPS                           139

                         CREAM     FLIP

I egg
J4 wineglass of cream
I dash curagao
  Shake well with fine ice. Grate nutmeg on top and serve.


                          EGG FLIP

I egg
I teaspoonful of sugar
I teaspoonfuul of maraschino
Fresh milk
  Shake. Grate nutmeg on top and serve.


                          gin flip
100% dry gin
I egg
I teaspoonful sugar
  Shake well, strain, and serve.


                      GLASGOW FLIP
25% raspberry syrup
I fresh egg
Juice of one lemon
I lump of ice
  Fill glass with ginger ale. Stir and serve.

                     PORT WINE FLIP
I teaspoonful of sugar
I egg
100% port wine
  Fill glass with cracked ice. Shake well with shaker and strain.
Grate a litde nutmeg on top.
140                 JACK S MANUAL

                      REVIVER      FLIP

75% sloe gin
25% Curasao
I egg
  Shake well. Grated nutmeg on top.

                         RUM    FLIP

100% Jamaica rum
I egg
1 teaspoonful of sugar
  Shake well and strain. Grated nutmeg on top.

                      SHERRY FLIP
2 teaspoonfuls of powdered sugar
100% sherry wine
I fresh egg
Yz glass of cracked ice
  Shake well together, strain, and serve. Nutmeg if desired.

                      WHISKY       FLIP

I teaspoonful of sugar
I egg
Fill glass with cracked ice
100% rye whisky
  Shake and strain. Grate a little nutmeg on top and serve.
                            Frappes




                   ABSINTHE FRAPPE
90% absinthe
10% anisette
  Fill glass with fine ice, shake, strain, and fill with fizz water.

                 CHAMPAGNE FRAPPE
  Place a bottle of champagne in a champagne cooler, fill with
shaved ice and salt. Turn the botde for twenty minutes, until
the wine becomes almost frozen.


                   FRAPPES ASSORTED

  Fill cocktail glass with fine shaved ice and fill with any
cordial that customer may ask for, as:
  Anisette frappe
  Benedictine frappe
  Chartreuse frappe
  Creme de menthe frappe
  Curasao frappe

                   VERMOUTH FRAPPE
I dash bitters
100% regular vermouth
 Fill glass with ice. Frappez, strain, and serve.
                          Highballs




                 AMER PICON       HIGHBALL
                       IJJse Im-ge glass)
One piece of ice in glass
75% Amer Picon
25% grenadine
  Fill glass with fizz water, stir with spoon, and serve.


                  BACARDI HIGHBALL
100% Bacardi
I piece of ice
  Fill glass with fizz water.


                      B. B. HIGHBALL
Juice of half an orange
100% Scotch whisky
I piece of ice in glass
  Fill glass with ginger ale and serve.


                  BERMUDA       HIGHBALL
40% brandy
40% dry gin
20% dry vermouth
I lump of ice
  Fill with siphon.
                          HIGHBALLS              143

                   BOURBON        HIGHBALL
 100% Bourbon
 I lump ice
   Fill with siphon.


                   BRANDY        HIGHBALL
 100% brandy
 I lump ice
   Fill with siphon.


                   CASCADE       HIGHBALL
50% regular vermouth
50% creme de Cassis
I lump of ice
  Fill with siphon.


          CREME DE         MENTHE HIGHBALL
I piece of ice in glass
100% creme de menthe
  Fill glass with fizz water.


                       GIN   HIGHBALL
I piece of ice in glass
100% dry gin
  Fill glass with fizz water, stir, and serve.


                GRENADINE HIGHBALL
I piece of ice in glass
100% grenadine syrup
  Fill glass with fizz water and serve.
144                   JACK S MANUAL


               IRISH      ROSE     HIGHBALL

75% Irish whisky
25% grenadine syrup
I lump of ice
  Fill with siphon. Stir,

               PALL       MALL     HIGHBALL

35% brandy
25% regular vermouth
30% dry gin
I lump of ice
  Fill with siphon,

                 POMPIER HIGHBALL
50% dry vermouth
50% creme de Cassis
I lump of ice
  Fill with siphon,

                      POPE HIGHBALL
I piece of ice in highball glass
100% sloe gin
  Fill glass with ginger ale, stir, and serve,

                   queen's highball
100% Amer Picon
I pony grenadine
I clear piece of ice in glass
  Fill glass with fizz water.

                      RITZ HIGHBALL
I piece of ice in glass
100% Ritz
  Fill with carbonic. Stir,
                                 HIGHBALLS                  I45

                            RYE    HIGHBALL

       I piece of ice in glass
       100% rye whisky
         Fill glass with fizz water and serve.


                         SCOTCH       HIGHBALL

       I piece of ice in glass
       100% Scotch whisky
         Fill glass with fizz water and serve.


                        SLOE GIN       HIGHBALL
       I piece of ice in glass
       Juice of half a lime. Drop squeezed lime in glass.
       100% sloe gin
         Fill glass with fizz water and serve.

                       VERMOUTH HIGHBALL
       I piece of ice in glass
       100% regular vermouth
         Fill glass with fizz water and serve.




rK I



                                                                  A-,''.
                                                                   1

                             Juleps




                     BRANDY JULEP
Yz teaspoonful of sugar. Add a litde water to dissolve sugar.
4 sprigs of mint
100% brandy
I dash of Jamaica rum
  Fill glass with ice. Trim with fruits in season and serve with
straws.


                   CHAMPAGNE JULEP
I lump of sugar
I sprig of mint
  Fill glass with champagne. Ornament with fruits in season.


                        GIN JULEP
Yz tablespoonful of sugar
3 sprigs of mint
Yz glass fine ice
100% gin
  Stir well, trim with fruits in season, and serve.



                   GRAPE JUICE JULEP
I teaspoonful syrup
Yz split of graf>e juice
  Stir. Place 3 sprigs of mint on top. Serve with straws.
                            JULEPS                            147

               KENTUCKY MINT JULEP
2 teaspoonfuls syrup
100% Bourbon whisky in glass filled with crushed ice
  Stir gently; then take ice-pick and from a big piece of ice
chop off fine ice so it will adhere to side of cup. Carefully place
a nice large bunch of mint on top and serve with straws.

                         MINT JULEP
                           {Large glass)
I teaspoonful of sugar
Add enough water to dissolve sugar.
3 sprigs of fresh mint. Press until essence is extracted.
Yz glass of ice
100% rye whisky
  Place four sprigs of fresh mint on top, trim with fruit in
season, add 2 dashes Jamaica rum, and serve with straws.

                     PINEAPPLE JULEP
Juice of one orange
25% raspberry syrup
25% maraschino
25% gin
25% Moselle
I sliced pineapple
  Ice, and serve with straws.

                      WHISKY JULEP
I tablespoonful of sugar
Squirt of Seltzer
3 sprigs of fresh mint. Press until essence is extracted.
Fill glass with cracked ice.
100% rye whisky
   Stir well with spoon, dress with fruits in season, sprinkle a
little sugar on top, and a dash of Jamaica rum. Serve with
straws.
                          Lemonades




               ANGOSTURA LEMONADE
  Add a teaspoonful of angostura bitters to each glass of
lemonade.

              APOLLINARIS LEMONADE
                      (Use large glass)
I tablespoonful of powdered sugar
3 lumps of cracked ice
Juice of one lemon
I pint of Apollinaris water
  Serve with straws.


                   CLARET LEMONADE

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar
Juice of one lemon
54 glass of cracked ice
% glass of water
  Shake well, dress with fruits in season, fill with claret, potir-
ing slowly, so that it floats on top. Serve with straw.

                CLUB SODA LEMONADE
I tablespoonful of sugar
Juice of one lemon
I split of club soda
  Stir. Decorate with fruit.
                          LEMONADES                        I49

                     EGG    LEMONADE

             (Use large glass, % jull of fine ice)
I tablespoonful of powdered sugar
Juice of one lemon
1 fresh egg
  Fill up glass with water, shake thoroughly, strain into a thin
lemonade glass, and serve.

          FINE LEMONADE            FOR PARTIES

2 pounds of granulated sugar
Grate the rind of 10 lemons over sugar. Rub in with sugar
    until the oil is absorbed.
Add a gallon of boiling water.
  Stir until sugar dissolves. Cool, place large piece of ice in
bowl, strain through cloth, ornament with fruits in season.

                   FRUIT LEMONADE
Plain lemonade.
  Add slices pineapple, orange, cherries, and other fruit in
season.

                     HOT LEMONADE
1 tablespoonful of sugar
Juice of one lemon
  Fill glass with hot water. Stir well.

               ITALIAN     WINE LEMONADE
2 teaspoonfuls of fine sugar
Litde water to dissolve
4 dashes of raspberry syrup
Juice of one lemon
Yz glass of cracked ice
100% Marsala wine
  Fill with water, stir, and trim with fruits in season. Serve
with straws.
150                  jack's manual

                    PLAIN     LEMONADE
2 teaspoonfuls of sugar
Juice of one lemon
Yz glass of ice
  Shake well and fill glass with water, strain, trim with fruits
in season. Serve with straws.



                 SELTZER        LEMONADE

                       {Use large glass)
2 tablespoonfuls of sugar
Juice of 2 lemons
4 or 5 small lumps of broken ice
  Fill up the glass with siphon seltzer. Stir up well with a spoon
and serve.

                     SODA    LEMONADE
2 teaspoonfuls of sugar
Juice of one lemon
I lump of ice
I botde of club or lemon soda
  Ornament with fruits in season and serve with straws.


                  WHISKY        LEMONADE

Plain lemonade
Float 100% whisky on top.
Fruit.
                         Miscellaneous




                          ABSINTHE

                        (^American style)
% glass of fine ice
10% absinthe
Wineglassful of water
  Shake the ingredients until the outside of the shaker is cov
ered with ice. Strain into glass and serve.

                      ABSINTHE DRIP
I pony of absinthe
  Fill the bowl of the absinthe glass (which has a hole in the
center) with fine ice, and the balance with water. Then elevate
the bowl and let contents drip into the glass containing the
absinthe until the color shows a suflSciency. Pour into a thin bar
glass.
                AMER PICON POUFFLE
75% Amer Picon
25% grenadine syrup
White of one egg
  Shake, strain, and fill glass with siphon.

               AMMONIA AND SELTZER
About ten drops of aromatic spirits of ammonia.
  Put into small glass of seltzer. Stir well.
152                     JACK S MANUAL

                        ANGEL       BLUSH

25% maraschino
25% creme Yvette
25% benedictine
25% cream on top

                        ANGEL    DREAM

40% maraschino
40% creme Yvette
20% cream on top

                         ANGEL      KISS

60% benedictine
40% cream on top

               ANGOSTURA         GINGER      ALE
I glass ginger ale
3 dashes bitters                                                     ^
               ANGOSTURA         GRAPEFRUIT                          »
  Cut the fruit in half. Extract the core or pithy substance in
the center with a sharp knife. Insert the knife around the inner
edge of the peel and disengage the fruit from the peel without
removing the fruit or breaking the peel. Sprinkle plentifully
with powdered sugar and dash the opening caused by the re
moval of the core with angostura bitters. Ice well before serving.

               ANGOSTURA PHOSPHATE

                  (Use a phosphate glass')
Vz teaspoonful acid phosphate
1 teaspoonful of angostura bitters
2 tablespoonfuls of lemon syrup, or juice of half a lemon
      well sweetened.
  Fill glass with carbonic water.
                     MISCELLANEOUS                          I53

                    ANGOSTURA          SODA

          {Large glass with two or three lumps of ice)
5 or 6 dashes of angostura bitters
I or 2 slices of orange
  Fill up glass with lemon soda and place a teaspoon filled
with sugar on top of the glass, to be sweetened as desired.

                         APPETIZER
4 dashes absinthe
50% dry gin
50% dry or regular vermouth
  Use Delmonico glass and add little seltzer. Shake well.
                       ARE AND       ARF
Yz glass porter
Yz glass ale
                        ASTRINGENT

75%
25% brandy
3 dashes angostura bitters
4 or 5 dashes strong Jamaica ginger
  Stir gendy with spoon and serve with a litde nutmeg on top.
                           AVIATOR

25% Dubonnet                                                      "i
25% tlry vermouth
25% regular vermouth                                        '
25% dry gin
 Fill glass with ice, shake, strain, and serve.
                    BACHELOR DREAM

25% curagao
25% maraschino
25% creme violet
25% whipped cream on top
154                   jack's manual
                   bachelor's rose
Juice of half a lemon
Juice of half a lime
Juice of half an orange
White of an egg
25% raspberry syrup
75% sloe gin
 Fill glass with cracked ice. Shake well and strain.


                   BALTIMORE          BRACER

50% anisette
50% brandy
White of one egg
  Shake, and strain into glass. Fill with fizz water and serve.


                          BEEF     TEA

Vt. teaspoonful of beef extract
   Fill glass with hot water. Season with celery salt. Stir well and
serve.



                       BEER     SHANDY
   glass of beer
   glass of ale


                BICARBONATE OF SODA
I teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda
/4 glass of water
  Stir well.

                          BIG    FOUR

33^4% cherry brandy
33^% kirschwasser
33H% dry vermouth
                      MISCELLANEOUS                            155

                            BISHOP

I teaspoonful of sugar
Juice of half a lemon
Juice of half an orange
   glass of fine ice
  Fill glass with burgundy.
Dash of Jamaica rum
   Stir well, dress with fruits in season, and serve with straws.

                    BISSELL      SWEEPER

                       {Lemonade glass)
Whisky Rickey with a split of imported ginger ale. Fill glass
     with siphon.
                        BLACK JACK
40% cold coffee
50% brandy
20% kirschwasser
  Shake well. Rub edge of glass with lemon rind. Dip in sugar.

                      BLACK      STRIPE

{JJse a whisky glass, with enough Jamaica rum to cover bottom
                           of glass.)
I tablespoonful of New Orleans molasses
  Place spoon in glass, hand rum botde to customer, and allow
him to stir and help himself.

                       BLUE BLAZER

          (Use 2 metal mugs or 2 heavy bar glasses)
Yi tablespoonful of sugar, dissolved in a little water
100% Scotch or rye whisky
  Set the liquid on fire, and while blazing pour three or four
times from one glass to the other. This will look like a stream
of fire. Twist a piece of lemon peel on top, with a little grated
nutmeg.
156                    jack's manual

                     BRADLEY      MARTIN
Iced creme de menthe, with 20% curagao on top.

                       BRAIN     DUSTER
40% brandy
40% Dubonnet
20% dry vermouth
  Shake, and strain into Delmonico glass.


              BRANDY        AND   GINGER       ALE
I lump of ice
100% brandy
Bottle of ginger ale
  Mix with spoon. Care should be taken that the ale does not
foam over the top.


                   BRANDY AND SODA
3 lumps of broken ice
100% brandy
Bottle of plain soda water
  Stir well with a spoon.
  (This is a delicious summer drink.)

          brandy BURNED WITH PEACH
                       (Use small bar glass)
100% brandy
14 tablespoonful of sugar
   Burn brandy and sugar together in a saucer. Place 2 or 3
slices of dried peaches in a hot stem glass. Pour the burned
liquid over it. Grate a little nutmeg over it and serve. This is a
Southern concoction.
                     MISCELLANEOUS                       I57

                 BRANDY       CHAMPRELLE

                         (Use shory glass)
25% curagao
25% chartreuse
25% anisette
25% kirschwasser or brandy
2 dashes of angostura bitters
  Attention should be paid to prevent ingredients from mixing.


                     BRANDY CRUSTA
25% maraschino
75% brandy
Yz glass of cracked ice
  Stir and strain.



                         BRANDY FIX

I teaspoonful of sugar
Juice of one lime
1 pony of pineapple syrup
2 dashes of chartreuse
  Fill glass with cracked ice.
100% brandy
  Stir with spoon, ornament with grapes and berries in season,
and serve with straws.



                     BRANDY FLOAT
  Fill pony glass with brandy. Place whisky glass over pony
of brandy and turn it upside down. Pour in Y. glass of water.
Then withdraw pony glass, allowing the brandy to float on top
of the water.
158                  jack's manual

                     BRANDY SCAFFA

                       (Use sherry glass)
25% raspberry syrup
25% maraschino
25% green chartreuse
 Top off with brandy and serve like Pousse Cafe.

                    CHAMPAGNE        VELVET

  For this drink a hotde of champagne and a hotde of porter
(both cold) must be used. Fill the goblet half full of porter and
balance with champagne. Stir with spoon slowly and carefully.

                    CLEAVES DELIGHT
50% grenadine syrup
50% regular vermouth
1 piece of ice in glass
  Stir and serve.

                          CLIQUOT
50% orange juice
50% rye
2 dashes St. Croix rum
  Serve in old-fashioned glass and twist a lemon peel on top.

                       CLOVER      LEAF

  In genuine old-fashioned American hot weather nothing
seems to tickle the palate like a good American drink, and the
kind selected generally indicates the characteristic of the person
drinking. In winter a man will take almost anything that hap
pens to be the fad for the moment, whether highly flavored or
not, but in summer the demand is for something that will
quench the thirst, whether beer, lemonade, gin rickey, or some
other beverage. The Clover Leaf is certainly decorative; it has
a soft orchid color, with a rim of white. Drink is made of:
                       MISCELLANEOUS                           159

 100% dry gin
 10 dashes grenadine
 White of one egg
 I sprig of mint
   Fill glass with cracked ice, shake well, strain into champagne
 glass, and serve.

                       COFFEE          KIRSCH

                         (Use wine glass)
 Yz spoonful of sugar
 I pony kirschwasser
50% cold black coffee
I dash of brandy
   Fill glass with fine shaved ice. Frappez, strain into wineglass,
and serve.
  (An after-dinner drink.)

                   COGNAC A            LA   RUSSE
I pony of cognac
I slice of lemon. Place on top of glass.
Ys cup of sugar on top

                       COOPERSTOWN

50%
25% dry vermouth
25% regular vermouth
One sprig of fresh mint
  Fill glass with ice, shake, and strain.

             CREME DE MENTHE ON ICE
Fill a cocktail glass with fine ice.
Fill up with creme de menthe.
  Serve with straws.
i6o                  JACK S MANUAL


                      CREOLE      LADY
10% maraschino
75% Bourbon
15% Madeira
2 cherries
  Shake, and strain into claret glass.

                     CRYSTAL SLIPPER

2 dashes orange bitters
75%
25% creme Yvette
  Shake well.

                     DE   LUXE BRACER
I pony white absinthe
I dash dry vermouth
I dash anisette
I dash yellow chartreuse
  Shake well and strain into Delmonico glass. Add a little
Seltzer and serve.

                           DXCORIE

Juice of one lime
90% Bacardi rum
10% grenadine
 Fill glass with cracked ice. Shake and strain.

                          DOGS   DAYS
100% Scotch whisky
1 bottle of ginger ale
2 slices of orange
                          DONNELLY S
1 Cliquot
2 Pommery
3 Ruinart
                       MISCELLANEOUS                          l6l

                            DREAM

Yi lemon juice
Yz teaspoonful sugar
100% dry gin
White of one egg
2 dashes assorted cordials on top


                         DUTCH     MIKE

                         {Use long glass)
Yi lime
2 dashes Amer Picon
ioo% Tom gin
I lump of ice
  Fill with Seltzer.


                       EGG PHOSPHATE
I teaspoonful of sugar
I fresh egg
Juice of an orange
3 dashes of phosphate
I glass of cracked ice
  Shake well with shaker, strain, and serve.


                       ELK S DELIGHT

Juice of half an orange
Juice of half a lemon
100% grape juice
I teaspoonful of powdered sugar
I dash of bitters
  Cracked ice to half-fill the glass, plain water to finish. Shake,
and serve in twelve-ounce lemonade glass. Garnish with slice of
orange and cherries.
i62                  jack's manual

                   EVANS    SHANDY      GAFF

1 large piece of ice in pitcher
2 bottles of ginger ale
2 glasses of claret
  Dress with fruit in season.


                      FANCY       CLAIRE

                     (Use large thin glass)
100% rye whisky
2 dashes Amer Picon
I botde club soda
  Stir and serve.



                           FEDORA
I teaspoonful of sugar, dissolved in a little water
I slice of lemon
10% brandy
10% curagao
6o% Bourbon whisky
20% Jamaica rum
 Fill glass with broken ice, shake well, ornament with fruits
in season, and serve with straws.


                           FLOATER
75% Russian kiimmel
25% brandy
  Iced.



          FOLIES BERGERE POUSSE CAFE
  Raspberry syrup, grenadine, maraschino, curagao, yellow
chartreuse, and green chartreuse. Serve with pony of fine
champagne.
                     MISCELLANEOUS                         163

                             FRAZIE

 75% maraschino
 25% apricot
   Float.

                    freeman's bliss
                         {In glass pitcher)
 I bottle of Moselle wine
 1 pint Seltzer
 I large piece of ice in pitcher
   Dress with fruits in season and serve.


                       FRENCH       FLAG

                     {After-dinner cordial)
54 grenadine
    maraschino
Yi creme Yvette

                    GARDEN         OF   EDEN

50% apricot brandy
50% creme Yvette
                   GIN    AND      CALAMUS

                      {Use whis\y glass)
  Two or three small pieces of calamus root should be placed
in a botde of gin until the essence has been extracted.
  To serve, hand out glass with the botde, and allow the cus
tomer to help himself.


                     GIN     AND    MILK

                      {Use whis\y glass)
  Hand out glass with spoon in it, and botde of gin. Allow cus
tomer to help himself. Then fill glass with cold milk.
164                  jack's manual

                    GIN   AND   MOLASSES

                    (Use whist{y glass)
  Put enough dry gin in glass to cover the bottom. Drop in one
tablespoonful of New Orleans molasses. Place spoon in glass
and allow customer to help himself from gin bottle. Use hot
water to cleanse glass.

                       GIN   AND      TANSY

                     (Use whisky glass)
  This is an old-fashioned and excellent tonic. It is prepared
by steeping a bunch of tansy in a bottle of Holland gin, which
will extract the essence. When serving, set the glass, with a
lump of ice, before the customer, allowing him to help himself.
                          GIN   BUMP

                       (Use highball glass)
I piece of ice in glass                                           ^
Squeeze half a lime into glass.                                   (
100% dry gin
  Fill glass with ginger ale. Stir.                               ,
                          GIN   CRUSTA

Peel of half a lemon in long string. Place in glass,
   glass of fine ice
I dash of bitters
Juice of half a lemon
I dash of maraschino
100% dry gin
                             GIN   FIX

2 teaspoonfuls of sugar
Juice of one lemon
Squirt of seltzer
  Fill glass with ice.
100% dry gin
  Stir well. Ornament with fruits in season.
                     MISCELLANEOUS                           165

                     GOLDEN       DREAM
Juice of half a lemon
I teaspoonful of sugar
Yolk of one egg
100% gin
  Shake, strain,into claret glass, and add a litde seltzer on top.


                    GOLDEN       SLIPPER

                      (Use sherry glass)
25% yellow chartreuse
I whole egg
  Fill glass with eau-de-vie de Danzig.


                           GOLFER

                   (Use old-fashioned glass)
Juice of half a lime
100% Scotch whisky
I lump of ice
  Add a little powdered sugar and fill glass with Seltzer.


                GOOD     LUCK     NIGHTCAP

   pint of champagne
I pony of grenadine
I bottle of plain soda


                         GREEN TIE
50% creme de menthe, green
50% creme de rose
  Float.
i66                 jack's manual

                       GUM     SYRUP
15 pounds loaf or granulated sugar or 5 pounds white rock
     candy
1 gallon of water
  Boil for 8 or 10 minutes, then add enough water to make
2 gallons.


                    HALF     AND    HALF

Mix half ale or beer and half porter together.
  This is the American style.



                    HALSTED STREET

                      (^Use glass pitcher)
I pint champagne
I pint beer
  Mix.


                    HAPPY      THOUGHT
   anisette
Jg creme de cacao
   creme de rose
Jg creme de menthe
Jg creme Yvette
K cognac


                   HEADACHE DRINKS
  Take two lemonade glasses, into one of which put a teaspoon-
ful of bromo seltzer or bromo soda, as preferred. Fill the other
glass full of water. Pour the water into the bromo, and pour
from one glass to the other until thoroughly mixed. Drink at
once.
                     MISCELLANEOUS                            167

                      HOOK      AND    EYE
50% brandy
50% apricot brandy
I teaspoonful of white creme de menthe
1 dash of absinthe
  Shake.

                         horse's neck
                         {Large thin glass)
2 dashes lemon juice
Peel a lemon in a long string and place in glass. Fill glass with
     ice.
I bottle of ginger ale


                           HOT RUM

I lump of sugar, dissolved in a little water
100% Jamaica rum
  Fill glasses with hot water. Stir well, grate a little nutmeg on
top, and serve.

                         HOT SCOTCH
I lump of sugar
I dash of bitters
% glass of boiling water
100% Scotch whisky
  Place piece of lemon peel and a few cloves in the glass and
serve.


                     HOT SPICED RUM
I lump of sugar
54 teaspoonful of mixed allspice
  Dissolve with a litde hot water.
100% Jamaica rum
 Fill glass with hot water. Stir, grate a little nutmeg on top,
and serve.
i68                  jack's manual

                   HUNGARIAN         BRACER

                       (Use whisky glass)
50% regular vermouth
50% rys whisky
2 dashes of angostura bitters
2 dashes of absinthe
  Twist one lemon peel over a small glass of seltzer, with one
dash of acid phosphate on the side.

                ILLINOIS THUNDERBOLT
85% cider brandy or Jersey lightning
15% grenadine
  Fill glass with cracked ice, shake, strain into cocktail glass,
and serve.
                        IRISH     ROSE

Irish whisky highball with three or four dashes of grenadine
      syrup.

                JACK KAISER FAVORITE
To six strawberries and mint leaves, both crushed, add a good
      drink of Scotch whisky. Mix with plain soda.

                   JERSEY FLASHLIGHT
2 lumps of sugar
2 dashes angostura bitters
100% apple brandy
  Twist lemon peel on top. Add a little water. Light with a
match and serve.

               JERSEY LILY POUSSE CAFE
                       (Use pony glass)
50% green chartreuse
50% cognac brandy
10 drops angostura bitters
  Pour brandy in carefully, so that it will not mix, and serve.
                     MISCELLANEOUS                           l6g

                     JERSEY SUNSET
    Into a straight champagne glass put a scant teaspoonful of
 sugar, with enough water to dissolve. Add a twist of lemon peel
 or lime peel and half a whisky-glassful of fine applejack. Now
 put in enough broken ice to cool, fill with water, and finish
 with a dash or two of angostura bitters, which should not be
 stirred in, but allowed to drop slowly through the amber mix
 ture, imparting to it the sunset hues that probably suggested
the name of the drink.
   In winter, instead of ice, hot water is used, making a most
genial drink — a Hot Sunset.


                         JUNE ROSE
Juice of half an orange
Juice of half a lime
Juice of half a lemon
Teaspoonful of raspberry or grenadine syrup
100% gin
  Fill glass with ice. Shake well with shaker, strain, fill glass
with fizz water, and serve.


                    KING S     CORDIAL

                      (Use cordial glass)
75% maraschino
25% Scotch whisky
  Float.


                       KNICKEBEIN

I dash angostura bitters
Yolk of an egg
50% benedictine
50% kiimmel
  See that the different ingredients are not mixed.
170                  JACKS MANUAL

                     KNICKERBOCKER

1 tablespoonful raspberry syrup
Juice of one lemon
100% St. Croix rum                                                |
2 dashes curagao
  Fill glass with cracked ice. Trim with fruits in season.        |
                                                                  I
              KNICKERBOCKER              BAKED

Break an egg into a sherry glass. Add a pony of kiimmel, then a
     pony of brandy. Light the brandy and watch the egg
      cook.
                   LEMON PHOSPHATE
2 dashes acid phosphate
I teaspoonful lemon juice
I pint lemon soda


                      LEONARD        RITZ
90% Ritz
10% raspberry syrup
Piece of ice in glass
  Fill with carbonic, stir, and serve.


                        LIME      KILN
Juice of one lime
50% dry gin
40% gum syrup
 Fill glass with cracked ice. Shake, strain, and serve.

           LITTLE MAXIME (afTER DINNER)
                 (Serve in pony glass)
40% Val d'Ema (liqueur)
40% creme de menthe, green
20% creme Yvette
                      MISCELLANEOUS                          17I

                             MAGNUS

2 dashes angostura bitters
Juice of half an orange
Peel of an orange in one string
100% gin
I bottle ginger ale
  Stir and serve.


                      MAIDEN S DREAM
% pony glass benedictine or creme de Cocoa
  Fill with heavy cream.
  This drink is admired by ladies.

                      MAMIE TAYLOR
Peel of lemon in one string. Place in glass so that it bangs over
100% Scotch whisky
Yi glass of cracked ice
I botde of ginger ale

         MAMIE TAYLOR (SOUTHERN STYLe)
                   (Use long, thin glass)
Peel of lemon in one string. Place in glass so that it hangs over
100% Scotch whisky
I piece of cube ice
I botde of ginger ale

              MAMIE Taylor's sister
                         (Use Collins glass)
100% gin
I lime squeezed and dropped in glass
I bottle of ginger ale
I large cube of ice
  Stir and serve.
172                  jack's manual

                       MARTINIQUE
40% benedictine
40% kiimmel
20% cream on top

                       MILK     SHAKE

25% raspberry syrup
2 lumps o£ ice
  Fill glass with milk; shake and strain.


                    MILK    AND SELTZER
Vz glass seltzer
Yz glass milk

                      MONTGOMERY

75%     whisky
25% regular Italian vermouth
I slice o£ orange
  Fill glass with ice. Shake, strain, and serve.


                    MORNING        BRACER
40% white absinthe
60% regular Italian vermouth
  Shake well, and strain into Delmonico glass. Fill with seltzer.


                      MORNING STAR
40% cream
40% port wine
20% Scotch
I £resh egg
  Shake, strain into long, thin glass, and fill with seltzer.
                    MISCELLANEOUS                            I73


                  Morton's favorite
  Crush six strawberries with mint leaves, add a spoonful of
sugar, crushed ice, a good-sized drink of brandy, and a botde
of plain soda. Serve in a large glass.

                       MULLED       ALE
I quart of barley wine, or strong ale
I glass of rum or brandy
I tablespoonful of castor sugar
Pinch of ground cloves
Pinch of grated nutmeg
Large pinch of ground ginger
  Put the ale, sugar, cloves, nutmeg, and ginger into an ale-
warmer or stew-pan and bring nearly to boiling point. Add the
brandy and more sugar, and flavoring if necessary. Serve at
once.




    MULLED ALE OR            A B U RT O N - O N - TR E N T
  Take one quart of barley wine, or strong ale, two eggs, a
teaspoonful of powdered ginger or nutmeg, two tablespoonfuls
of castor sugar, and one ounce of butter. Beat up the eggs
separately. Put the ale in a saucepan, add the ginger (or nut
meg), sugar, and butter. When nicely warm, but not boiling,
pour slowly into the jug containing the beaten eggs; stir well
and then warm the mixture on the fire without bringing to
boiling point.

        OLD OXFORD COLLEGE             MULLED       ALE
   Put 54 pound cinnamon and % pound cloves into a saucepan
with two quarts of water. Put the mixture over the fire till
it boils, then let it simmer for an hour, and then strain it off
into a jug. When cold, put the liquid into a bottle and cork
down well.
  When making mulled ale, add one wineglassful of the liquid
174                   JACKS MANUAL

to every quart of barley wine or strong ale, adding a litde
ginger and loaf sugar to taste. Heat the ale over a brisk fire, but
be sure not to let it boil, as that alters the flavor. Take it off
just before it boils.
  Add a few slices of lemon and a wineglassful of gin to every
quart.


                         ORANGEADE

I spoonful of sugar
100% orange juice
25% raspberry syrup
Yi glass of cracked ice
  Fill with water or seltzer, trim with fruits in season, and serve
with straws.




         OXFORD UNIVERSITY NIGHTCAP
  Beat up the yolks of eight eggs with refined sugar pulverized
and a grated nutmeg, then extract the juice from the rind of
a lemon by rubbing sugar upon it, and put the sugar with a
piece of cinnamon and a quart of barley wine or strong ale into
a saucepan. Place it on the fire, and when it boils, take it off
and add a single glass of gin, if desired. Put the liquor into a
spouted jug and pour it gradually among the yolks of eggs, etc.
All this must be kept well stirred with a spoon while the liquor
is being poured in. If it is not sweet enough, add sugar.


               PARISIAN POUSSE CAFE
                    (Use Pousse Cafe glass)
40% Curasao
40% kirschwasser
20% chartreuse
  A celebrated drink in Paris.
                         MISCELLANEOUS                     175

                      PEACH         AND   HONEY

                          (Use whisky glass)
    I tablespoonful of pure honey
    100% peach brandy
      Stir with spoon and serve.

                            PEACH     BLOW
    Juice of half a lemon
    r teaspoonful sugar
    100% gin
    Yi. peach
      Shake, strain, and fill glass with seltzer

                             PERFECTO

                            (Use large glass)
4 lumps of ice
    I dash lemon juice
1 lump of sugar
2 slices of pineapple
  Fill glass with champagne.
I dash angostura bitters
•     Dress with fruit in season.

                       phcebe's delight
Juice of 4 oranges, 4 lemons, and 4 limes.
   Strain so as to get all pulp and seeds out. Then sweeten to
taste with sugar syrup. Put the mixture in a punch bowl, with
a great deal of fine-cut ice. Then cut in one orange, one lime,
one lemon, and one nice pineapple. Add one quart of fine
Arrack and one quart of good blended rye whisky. Stir well.

                                POLLY

Gin Fizz made with grenadine syrup instead of sugar.
176                    jack's manual

                      PONY    OF   BRANDY

  Fill pony glass with best brandy. Serve with small glass of ice
water.

                      PORT    STARBOARD

                  (Use Pousse Cafe glass)
   white curagao
J4 yellow chartreuse

                      PORTER SHANDY

Yz glass porter
Yz glass light beer
                         PORTO     RICO

Gin Rickey made with two dashes of raspberry syrup
                         POSTMASTER

Piece of ice in glass
100% dry gin
I bottle of ginger ale

                         POUSSE CAFE

                      (Use liquor pony glass)
% raspberry syrup
   maraschino
yi green creme de menthe
yi brown curagao
yi yellow chartreuse
yi brandy
  Serve.
                      POUSSE l'amour
% glass maraschino
Yolk of an egg
Yt glass vanilla cordial
Y glass brandy
  Keep this drink in separate layers and serve.
                     MISCELLANEOUS                          177

                         PROMOTER
Juice of half a lemon
Juice of half a lime
I teaspoonful of sugar
100% sloe gin
Fine ice
I fresh egg
  Shake well, and strain. Fill glass with seltzer.


                  QUEEN CHARLOTTE
                      (Use Collins glass)
25% raspberry syrup
75%        .
I lump of ice
I pint lemon soda
  Stir well.

                         RANDOLPH
50% dry gin
40% dry vermouth
10% regular vermouth
I tablespoonful pineapple syrup
  Fill mixing glass with cracked ice, stir, strain, and serve in
cocktail glass.


                      RED SWIZZLE

                       (Use a sha\er)
I teaspoonful angostura bitters
34 wineglassful of whisky
34 wineglassful of water
  Add syrup or other sweetening to taste.
I wineglassful of shaved ice
  Shake very well and strain into a fancy cocktail glass.
178                   jack's manual

               RENAUD's POUSSE CAFE
33^4% brandy
3354% maraschino
33^/3% Curasao
  Put into a whisky glass, mix well with spoon, withdraw
spoon, and serve.


             RHINE      WINE     AND SELTZER

54 glass of seltzer
  Fill with Rhine wine and serve.


                      ROCK     AND RYE
I pint water
I lemon cut in quarters
54 pound rock candy
54 an orange
  Boil together until rock candy is dissolved. Let it cool, strain
through cloth, and add one quart of good rye whisky. Stir well
together. It is then ready for use.

                        ROGERS      ROCK

Drop cherry in glass.
10% maraschino
10% orange gin
80% Dubonnet
 Fill glass with cracked ice. Strain and serve.

                        ROYAL SMILE

I tablespoonful of grenadine
50% dry gin
50% applejack
Juice of one lemon
  Fill glass with cracked ice. Strain and serve.
                       MISCELLANEOUS                        179

          RUM     AND    HONEY       OR   MOLASSES
 Put a teaspoonful of honey or molasses into a whisky glass. Let
      customer help himself with rum.



              SABBATH        MORNING        CALM

 100% dry gin
   Fill glass with broken ice. Shake, strain, and serve.


                    ST. CROIX      CRUSTA

             (Use mixing glass half full of ice)
3 dashes of gum syrup
1 dash of Peychaud's hitters
2 dashes of lemon juice
1 dash of mineral water
2 dashes of maraschino
100% St. Croix rum
  Mix well, strain into stem glass, prepared as follows:
Remove the peel from one lemon in one long string. Put into
    stem glass after moistening and dipping in sugar.


                        SAM     WARD

Peel Yi lemon in one string. Set in cocktail glass.
Fill with fine shaved ice.
100% yellow chartreuse
  Serve with straws.


                       SHANDY GAFF

Half a glass of beer
Half a glass of ginger ale
  It is also made with half ale, half ginger ale.
i8o                   jack's manual

               SHERRY       AND     ANGOSTURA

Put I dash of bitters in a sherry glass, and roll the glass till the
      bitters entirely cover the inside surface.
  Fill glass with sherry and serve.

                 SHERRY        AND BITTERS
I dash of bitters
  Fill glass with sherry wine and serve.

                     SHERRY       AND EGG
I teaspoonful of sherry
I fresh egg
  Fill glass with sherry until the egg floats, and serve.

                    SHERRY        CHICKEN

Sherry Egg Nogg.

                                                                       n
                       SILVER DREAM
Juice of half a lemon
% teaspoonful of sugar
White of one egg
100% gin
  Shake well, strain into a claret glass, then squirt a little
seltzer on top and serve.


                          SILVERM AN

                  (Use pony liquor glass)
Vi eau-de-vie de Danzig
Vz Mandarinette

                     SINGLE      STANDARD
Bourbon Whisky Rickey in a lemonade glass.
                       MISCELLANEOUS                        l8l


                            SIRLOIN
 I sprig of mint
 50% rye whisky
 50% regular vermouth
   Fill glass with cracked ice, shake, strain, and serve.


                       SLOE   GIN      BUMP

                       {Use highball glass)
 I piece of ice in glass
 Squeeze half a lime in glass.
 100% sloe gin
   Fill glass with ginger. Stir and serve.

                         SNOWBALL

                       {Use Collins glass)
White of one egg
I teaspoonful of sugar
100% brandy or rum
  Shake, strain, fill glass with ginger ale, and serve.

                   STARBOARD           LIGHT

                   {Serve in liquor pony glass)
90% green cr^me de menthe
10% brandy
  A delicious after-dinner cocktail.


                          STINGER

75% white mint
25% cognac brandy
2 dashes of absinthe
  Fill glass with cracked ice. Shake, strain, and serve.
i82                  jack's manual

                       STONE      FENCE

100% whisky
3 lumps of ice
  Fill glass with cider. Stir well and serve.

                        STONEWALL

2 lumps of ice
100% brandy
I botde of club soda
  Stir up well with spoon, remove the ice, and serve.

                    STONY      LONESOME

                       {Use highball glass)
100% cider brandy
I slice of orange
I lump of ice
  Fill glass with celery tonic, stir, and serve.

                       SUSIE TAYLOR
Juice of half a lime
100% Jamaica rum
1 pint ginger ale
                           SUISSESS

75% white absinthe
25% kirschwasser
White of one egg
  Shake well in shaker; strain into Delmonico glass.

                          SUISETTE

Juice of half a lemon
2 dashes of absinthe
I teaspoonful of sugar
40% regular vermouth
60% brandy
   Shake, strain into long glass, and fill with seltzer.
                     MISCELLANEOUS                         183

                          SWISS ESS

75% white absinthe
25% anisette
White of one egg
  Fill with shaved ice. Shake well in shaker, strain into cock
tail glass, and serve.



                          TEA SHAKE        -
100% tea
I whole fresh egg
Yz teaspoonful of sugar
40% regular vermouth
60% brandy
  Shake, strain into long glass, and fill with seltzer.


                    THREE-QUARTER
40% yellow chartreuse
40% curagao
20% brandy

                     TIPTOP      BRACER
Put a small lump of ice into a highball glass.
1 split of sparkling water
2 dashes celery bitters
A little salt
  Stir well with spoon, and serve.


                          TIT FLOAT
Curagao with a little whipped cream on top. Place a small
     piece of red cherry in the center and serve.
184                  jack's manual

               TOM AND JERRY, NO. I
                       (Use large bowl)
Take the whites of any number of eggs and beat to a stiff froth.
Add I Yz tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar to each egg.
Beat the yolks of the eggs separate.
Stir well together and beat until you have a stiff batter.
Add to this as much bicarbonate of soda as will cover a nickel.
Stir up frequently, so that the eggs will not separate or settle.
  To serve: Put a tablespoonful of batter into Tom and Jerry
mug; add 100% rum and brandy mixed; fill up with boiling
water or milk. Grate nutmeg on top, stir with spoon, and serve.

               TOM AND JERRY, NO. 2
12 raw eggs
2 liqueur glasses of creme de cacao
I glassful of rum
I glassful of sherry
I teaspoonful of ground cinnamon
34 teaspoonful of ground cloves
34 teaspoonful of ground allspice
  Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add the yolks, rum,
sherry, cacao, and spice. Stir up thoroughly and thicken with
fine sugar, until the mixture attains the consistency of light
batter. Mix and keep in a cool dry place.
  To serve: Put 34 a glass of brandy or whisky, and a dessert
spoonful of the above mixture, into a mug and fill with boiling
water or milk. Stir slowly, and grate a little nutmeg on top.

                  tracey's delight
                    (An after-dinner drinl()
3354% liquor pony gin
3334% liquor pony creme de cacao
3334% liquor pony cream
  Fill mixing glass or shaker with fine cracked ice, frappez,
strain into cocktail glass, and serve.
                    MISCELLANEOUS                           185

                    TURKISH SHERBET

                    (Use a punch bowl)
2 quarts of sweet wine
2 quarts of water
4 pounds of sugar
   wineglassful of angostura bitters
4 lemons, juice only
6 oranges, juice only
I pound blanched almonds
I pound muscatel grapes
Yz poung figs, cut up
Yz pound seedless raisins
Yi dozen eggs, whites only
I dozen cloves, a small piece of cinnamon, and a little caramel
      coloring
   Make a hot syrup of the sugar and water and pour it over the
raisins, cloves, and cinnamon.
   When cool, add orange and lemon juice and wine. Strain and
freeze in the usual manner.
  Take out the spices, and add the scalded raisins, figs, grapes,
and almonds last.


                  TWENTIETH        CENTURY

Juice of half a lime
Juice of half a lemon
I teaspoonful of sugar
100% Bourbon
I dash Jamaica rum
  Shake well and strain into a highball glass. Fill with ginger
ale or seltzer.

                           VICHY

Do not mix in white or red wines, as it turns black.
It blends well with Scotch and Irish whiskies.
 i86                 JACK S MANUAL


                     WHISKY      CRUSTA

  Prepare this drink the same as Brandy Crusta, using whisky
instead of brandy.
                         WHISKY     FIX

I teaspoonful of sugar
Juice of half a lemon
100% rye whisky
  Fill glass with cracked ice. Sdr well with spoon, ornament
with fruits in season, and serve with straws.

                     WHISKY       FLOAT

  Fill glass half full of fizz water. Pour ioo% whisky slowly on
top of fizz water and serve.

                         WHITE      CAP

Benedictine with cream on top.

                      WHITE      HORSE

                      (Use large glass)
2 dashes angostura bitters
I piece of ice
Juice of half an orange
100% Scotch whisky
I botde of ginger ale
  Stir well with spoon and serve.
  This is an excellent summer drink.

                       WHITE      LION

              (Use large glass, half jull of ice)
I teaspoonful of pulverized sugar
Juice of half a lime or lemon
100% rum
3 dashes Curasao
3 dashes raspberry
  Shake well, strain into a stem glass, and serve.
                     MISCELLANEOUS                          187

                       WHITE PLUSH

75%     whisky
25% maraschino
I fresh egg
Y2 glass cracked ice
  Fill glass with milk. Shake well with shaker,strain, and serve.


                     WIDOW S DREAM
                      (Use coc\tail glass)
100% Benedictine
I fresh egg
  Fill up with milk and cream and serve.

                       WIDOW S KISS

                         (Use tumbler)
Yolk of one egg
I teaspoonful of sugar
100% rye whisky
  Fill glass with cracked ice and shake well together. Fill serv
ing glass half full of seltzer, then strain ingredients slowly on
top and serve.
                         Z ABRISKIE

I dash bitters
I dash maraschino
60% dry gin
40% regular vermouth
  Fill glass with ice. Stir, strain, and serve.
★        ★       ★       ★        ★     ★      ★       ★       ★




                             Punches




              AMERICAN        BEAUTY PUNCH
I teaspoonful creme de menthe in a goblet filled with fine ice.
Mix juice of half an orange
Vz teaspoonful sugar
50% brandy
50% dry vermouth in mixing glass
    Shake, and strain into goblet. Dress with fruit and mint. Top
off with I teaspoonful of port wine.
             ARCTIC PUNCH (NON-ALCOHOLIC)
100% raspberry syrup
Juice of 2 limes
2 pints ginger ale                                                  t
I pint cold English tea in pitcher                                  j
    Dress with fruit and mint.

                       ASTOR PUNCH
50% white creme de menthe
Fine ice in goblet
50% sloe gin on top
    Dress with fruit in season.

                     BILL    MEYER PUNCH
I dash of lemon juice
1 lump of loaf sugar
2 slices of pineapple
2 slices of orange
I slice of lemon
    Use large glass, with 5 lumps of clear ice. Fill up with im
ported champagne. Stir well. Dress with cherries and serve.
                           PUNCHES                            189

                BISHOP PUNCH (pitcher)
Juice of half a lemon
50% syrup
50% Jamaica rum
1 pint claret
  Dress with fruit and mint.


BLACKSTONE NECTAR PUNCH (nON-ALCOHOLIc)
Juice of I small orange
Juice of I small lemon
Raspberry syrup to taste
   Shake, and strain into goblet with crushed ice. Fill glass with
seltzer, dress with fruit and 3 or 4 sprigs of mint on top.

                    BORDELAISE PUNCH

Juice of half a lemon
2 dashes raspberry syrup
1 teaspoonful sugar
100% kirschwasser in goblet with fine ice
2 slices of lime
2 slices of lemon
  Stir well and squirt a little seltzer on top.

                   BOSTON     MILK PUNCH
50% Bourbon whisky
50% rum
I teaspoonful sugar
   glass of milk
  Shake, strain, and serve.

                BOURBON       WHISKY PUNCH
Juice of half a lemon
I small teaspoonful sugar
100% Bourbon whisky
  Shake, and strain into goblet with fine ice. Dress with fruit
and serve.
jgo                 JACKS MANUAL


                    BRANDY PUNCH
I tablespoonful of sugar
A little water to dissolve sugar
25% syrup
100% brandy
i/2 glass cracked ice
   Shake, strain, and trim with fruit in season. Serve with
straws.



                   BRUNSWICK PUNCH
Milk shake without sugar
Use raspberry syrup instead and Yz pony curagao.

                   BULL MOOSE PUNCH

35% rye vvhisky
35% Bourbon whisky
30% dry gin
I dash angostura bitters
I dash orange bitters
3 dashes syrup
  Shake, and strain into goblet. Fill with crushed ice, and dress
with fruit.


                    CARDINAL PUNCH
  Cover the bottom of a punch-bowl with loaf sugar, in two
quarts of sparkling water, two quarts of claret, one pint of
cognac, and one pint of rum.
I pint sparkling Moselle
100% regular vermouth
3 oranges sliced
I lemon sliced
   pineapple sliced
I large piece of ice.
  Serve in punch glasses.
                            PUNCHES                         191


                  CHAMPAGNE PUNCH

                    (Use a punch bowl)
4 lumps of sugar
2 ponies of curagao
I quart of champagne
I bottle of club soda
Juice of one lemon
  Stir with ladle.
I large piece of ice
  Trim with fruits in season.


                  CHOCOLATE PUNCH

Use large bar glass % full of fine ice
Yz teaspoonful of sugar
50% port wine
50% cura5ao
I egg
  Fill with milk. Shake thoroughly into a punch glass, grate
a little nutmeg on top, and serve.

                       CLARET PUNCH
I tablespoonful of sugar
Squirt of seltzer
Juice of half a lemon
Half glass of cracked ice
  Fill glass with claret. Stir well, and ornament with fruits in
season.


                COMBINATION PUNCH
Juice of half a lemon
Juice of half a lime                                                   1
Juice of half an orange                                                      i
100% rye or Bourbon whisky
  Shake, strain into goblet filled with crushed ice, and dress
with fruit.                                                        i        H


                                                                           '■A
192                   JACKS MANUAL


         CONCLAVE PUNCH (noN-ALCOHOLIc)
Juice of one orange
25% raspberry syrup
I glass of fresh milk
  Shake, strain into thin glass, and serve.

                      CREAM      PUNCH

I teaspoonful granulated sugar
50% brandy
50% maraschino
I small hotde of cream
I dash Curasao
  Shake, and strain into punch glass.

                      CREOLE PUNCH
50% French claret
25% brandy
2 dashes apricot brandy
2 dashes Jamaica rum
I teaspoonful syrup
  Crushed ice in goblet. Dress with fruit. If served hot, add
spices and lemon peel, and serve in silver pitcher.
                                                                W • r


                                                                 \
        CUBAN MILK PUNCH (nON-ALCOHOLIc)
25% vanilla
I egg
I teaspoonful sugar
75% fresh milk
 Shake, strain, and serve in thin glass.

                    CURASAO PUNCH
Use large bar glass half full of ice
I tahlespoonful powdered sugar
3 or 4 dashes lemon juice
                          PUNCHES                            193

50% brandy
30% curagao
20% Jamaica rum
2 dashes bitters
 Yz glass carbonated water
   Stir well with spoon, fill up with ice, dress with fruits, and
serve with straws.




                DANIEL     WEBSTER PUNCH
                        (Jor 12 persons)
Juice of 12 limes
   Add granulated sugar sufficient to make paste.
I pint rum
   Let it mull for 12 hours.
Large block of ice
  Add I quart champagne.



                DANNY WILSON PUNCH
Juice of half an orange
Juice of half a lemon
100% dry gin
Six dashes grenadine syrup
  Shake, strain into goblet containing one lump of ice, and
serve.




                     ELMWOOD PUNCH
4 pints grape juice
I pint claret
1 pint imported champagne
2 spoonfuls grated pineapple
  Sugar to taste. Dress with fruits in season.
194                  JACK S MANUAL


                     EMPRESS PUNCH

2 crushed lumps of sugar
3 dashes angostura bitters
4 or 5 lumps of ice
I split of champagne
  Dress with fruit and put a litde mint on top. Add two thin
slices of lime and serve.

                    FISH    HOUSE PUNCH

Vi pint lemon juice
% pound powdered sugar, dissolved in sufficient water
   pint brandy
/4 pint peach brandy
K pint Jamaica rum
4 tablespoonfuls angostura bitters
iVz pints cold water
  Ice and serve.

                        GIN   PUNCH

            (JJse large bar glass half full of ice)
I tablespoonful raspberry syrup
I tablespoonful powdered sugar, dissolved in seltzer
I whisky glass of Holland gin
3 or 4 dashes of lemon juice
1 slice of orange
2 dashes maraschino
  Fill up with ice, shake well, dress with pineapple and ber
ries, and serve

       GINGER ALE PUNCH (nON-ALCOHOLIc)
Juice of half an orange
Juice of half a lemon
Grenadine syrup to taste
  Shake, and strain into goblet filled with crushed ice. Add
ginger ale. Dress with fruit and serve 2 or 3 sprigs of mint
on top.
                          PUNCHES                           195

                   GOODMAN        PUNCH

Juice of half a lime
25% sherry
75%     whisky
54 teaspoonful granulated sugar
  Shake, and strain into goblet. Dress with fruit.

                    HARDING PUNCH              -

                        {Two gallons)
I quart rum
I quart brandy
I quart imported champagne
5^ quart arrack
1 quart peach brandy
3 pounds granulated sugar
14 pound green tea, steef)ed
2 quarts ice water

                       HERALD PUNCH

75% orange juice
25% rye whisky
  Serve in a goblet, with fine ice. Dress with fruit, a dash of
rum on top.

                HOLLAND        GIN   PUNCH

Juice of half a lime
I small teaspoonful sugar
100% Holland gin
  Serve in a goblet, with fine ice. Shake and strain. Dress with
fruit.

                   TOM      GIN PUNCH

                   SLOE GIN PUNCH

                    DRY     GIN PUNCH

Same as Holland Gin Punch, except use the gin named.
196                  JACK S MANUAL


                  HOT    CLARET PUNCH

Juice of half a lemon
I teaspoonful of sugar
Cinnamon to taste
100% claret
Lemon peel
  Boil, strain into glass cup, and serve.


                  HOT    CREOLE PUNCH

2 teaspoonfuls syrup
2 dashes Jamaica rum
I dash apricot brandy
100% French claret
I teaspoonful spices
Lemon peel
  Heat on stove until nearly boiling.


                    HOT IRISH PUNCH
2 lumps of sugar
Juice of half a lemon
  Dissolve in a little hot water.
100% Irish whisky
  Fill glass with hot water. Stir well, place slice of lemon on
top, grate nutmeg, and serve.



                    HOT    MILK PUNCH
I tablespoonful of sugar
50% Jamaica or Bedford rum
50% brandy
  Fill glass with boiling hot milk. Stir well, grate a little nut
meg on top, and serve.
                         PUNCHES                            197

                    HOT    RUM    PUNCH
I teaspoonful o£ sugar
100% Jamaica rum
  Fill glass with hot water. Twist 2 pieces of lemon peel on
top, and drop them into the glass. Add 2 whole cloves. Stir with
spoon, and serve.

                IRISH     WHISKY      PUNCH

Juice of half a lemon
I teaspoonful sugar
100% Irish whisky
  Shake and strain into a goblet with fine ice. Dress with fruit
in season.

               KIRSCHWASSER PUNCH

V2 teaspoonful sugar
Juice of one lemon
25% chartreuse
75% kirschwasser
  Mix well with spoon. .
   glass cracked ice
  Ornament with fruits in season and serve with straws.

              KNICKERBOCKER PUNCH

Juice of half a lime
I teaspoonful sugar
100% rum
  Shake, and strain into goblet with fine ice. Dress with fruit
and put I dash claret on top.
              LORD BALTIMORE PUNCH
Juice of 2 limes
1 teaspoonful sugar
100% Scotch whisky
2 dashes benedictine
  Shake, and strain into goblet. Dress with fruit.
igS                   jack's manual

                    MAY     WINE PUNCH

                    (^Use large punch bowl)
  Two bunches of (Waldmeister) woodruff cut in two or three
lengths. Place in a large glass, fill it up with brandy,cover it up,
and let it stand for two hours until the essence of the woodruff
is extracted. Cover the bottom of the bowl with granulated
sugar.
5 botdes club soda over it
Cut up four oranges in slices.
Yz pineapple, berries, cherries, grapes
8 botdes of Moselle wine
I bottle of champagne
50% Curasao
50% maraschino
50% brandy
 Then put woodruff, brandy, etc., into the three gallons of
excellent May Wine Punch.
  Surround the bowl with ice. Serve in wineglass in such a
manner that each glass will get a piece of all fruits; then fill
with ladle and serve.

                 MEDFORD RUM PUNCH
I teaspoonful sugar
Juice of half a lemon
  Dissolve in a little water.
100% rum
Yi glass cracked ice
  Stir with spoon, dress with fruits in season, and serve with
straws.

                 merry widow punch
Juice of half a lemon
Yz teaspoonful sugar
100% sloe gin
I dash vanilla
  Shake, strain into goblet with fine ice, and float i teaspoonful
of cream on top.
                         PUNCHES                            199


                       MILK PUNCH
2 teaspoonfuls sugar
 1 dash Jamaica rum
100% rye whisky
2 lumps of ice
  Fill glass with cold milk. Shake and strain, grate a little
nutmeg, and serve with straw.


                 MILLIONAIRE PUNCH

Juice of one lemon
1 dash of lime juice
1 teaspoonful sugar
100% good whisky
2 dashes of grenadine syrup
  Shake well. Strain into goblet and decorate with fruit.
I dash creme de menthe on top.


           MINT PUNCH (non-alcoholic)
I bunch fresh mint in long, thin glass
I cube of ice
I pint ginger ale


                    MISSISSIPPI PUNCH

                    (Use large bar glass)
1 tablespoonful of sugar
Enough water to dissolve the sugar
3 or 4 dashes lemon juice
2 dashes angostura bitters
Yi wineglassful Jamaica rum
34 wineglassful Bourbon whisky
34 wineglassful brandy
  Mix well, fill up with ice, trim with fruits, and serve with
straws.
200                  jack's manual

                 MONTICELLO          PUNCH

I pint imported champagne
100% brandy
Juice of half a lemon
  Sugar to taste. Serve with fruits in season.


              NATIONAL GUARD PUNCH
1 tablespoonful sugar
Juice of one lemon
Pony of raspberry syrup
100% brandy
  Fill glass with cracked ice.
2 dashes Jamaica rum
  Stir well, and trim with fruits in season. Serve with straws.


         OLD   DELAWARE          FISHING PUNCH
I tablespoonful sugar
Juice of a lemon. Dissolve with a litde water.
50% rum
50% brandy
   Fill glass with cracked ice; stir well with spoon, dress with
fruits in season, and serve with straws.


        OLD-FASHIONED            WHISKY PUNCH
80% Bourbon whisky
Juice of half a lemon
20% curagao
V2 pint plain or sparkling water
Plain syrup
I long cube of ice
3 or 4 slices of cucumber rind
  Decorate with fruit and mint.
                                   PUNCHES                            201



                              ORCHARD PUNCH
         I tablespoonful orchard syrup
         I tablespoonful pineapple syrup
         100% California brandy
            Fill glass with ice, mix well, trim with fruits in season, add
         I dash of port wine, and serve with straws.



                               ORGEAT PUNCH

                    {Use large bar glass half full of ice)
         50% orgeat syrup
         50% brandy
         4 or 5 dashes lemon juice
            Stir well, fill up with ice, dash with port wine, trim with
         fruit, and serve.



                         PEACH BRANDY PUNCH
         Juice of half a lemon
         1 teaspoonful of sugar
         100% peach brandy
           Shake, and strain into goblet filled with ice. Dress with fruit.



                                PONY PUNCH

         Juice of 6 lemons
         Juice of half a pineapple
         I quart of Bourbon whisky
         I quart of green tea
            pint Jamaica rum
            pint maraschino
           Mix well together, and serve in punch glass. Dress with
         fruit.




■it*-.
202                  JACKS MANUAL


                    PORT    WINE     PUNCH

I tablespoonful of sugar
Juice of a lemon
100% port wine
  Fill glass with cracked ice. Stir with spoon, ornament with
fruits in season, and serve with straws.


                      REGENT PUNCH

   To I Vz pints of strong, hot green tea add i Vz pints of lemon
juice, 154 pints of Capillaire, one pint of Jamaica rum, one
pint of hrandy, one pint of Batavia arrack, one pint of Curasao,
one hotde of champagne, two tahlespoonfuls of angostura hit
ters, one sliced pineapple, and two sliced oranges. Mix thor
oughly in a punch howl. Add the wine and ice just before
serving.

                    RHINE    WINE PUNCH
                           {One gallon)
Juice of 8 lemons
2 ponies of hrandy
2 ponies of curagao
1 pony of henedictine
2 quarts of Rhine wine
2 quarts of sparkling water
  Sugar to taste.

                      ROMANPUNCH

Juice of half a lemon
54 pony water
I teaspoonful granulated sugar
25% rum
25% brown curagao
50% hrandy
  Shake well and strain into a goblet. Dress with fruit in
season and add a little port wine on top.
                           PUNCHES                             203


                    ROOSEVELT PUNCH
 Muddle of half a lemon
 I teaspoonful sugar
 100% apple brandy
   Shake, and strain into a goblet. Dress with fruit and a little
 brandy on top.
                   RYE   WHISKY PUNCH
 Same as Bourbon Whisky Punch, but use rye whisky instead of
 Bourbon.
                   ST. CHARLES PUNCH

                    (Use large bar glass)
I teaspoonful sugar
3 dashes of lemon juice
1 dash seltzer
75%     wine
25% brandy
2 dashes curagao
I dash angostura bitters
  Stir well, fill glass with shaved ice, trim with fruit, and serve
with straws.
                 ST. CROIX RUM PUNCH
I tablespoonful sugar
Juice of one lemon
75% St. Croix rum
25% Jamaica rum
  Fill glass with cracked ice. Stir with spoon, ornament with
fruits in season, and serve with straws.

                      SALOME PUNCH
I teaspoonful sugar
I egg
I pony curagao
I pint of milk
  Shake, strain into goblets, and serve.
204                 JACKS MANUAL

                    SANKEY       PUNCH

                         {Four persons)
I pony of brandy
I pony of Benedictine
1 cocktail glass of dry vermouth
2 cocktail glasses of port wine
5 dashes of angostura
Yolks of two eggs
Tablespoonful of sugar
  Shake well with ice, strain, and serve in claret glass.

                   SAUTERNE PUNCH

                         {One gallon)
Juice of 4 to 6 lemons
50% brandy
25% apple brandy
25% pineapple juice
2 dashes yellow chartreuse
lYz quarts sauternes
lYz quarts Apollinaris or White Rock or club soda
  Sugar to taste. Dress with fruit.

                      SCHLEY PUNCH
Juice and rind of one lime
I teaspoonful of sugar
40% rum
60% Bourbon or rye whisky
  Shake, and strain into goblet with fine ice. Dress with fruit
and put a littie mint on top.

              SCOTCH       WHISKY PUNCH
Juice of half a lemon
I teaspoonful of sugar
100% Scotch whisky
  Shake, and strain into a goblet. Dress with fruit.
                          PUNCHES                           205

                     SHERRY   WINE PUNCH

I teaspoonful of sugar
Juice of half a lemon
100% sherry wine
  Fill glass with shaved ice. Stir, trifn with fruit, and serve
with straws.


               SODA    NEGUS BOWL PUNCH

                   (JJse small punch howl)
I pint of port wine
Yz tablespoonful angostura bitters
12 lumps of loaf sugar
12 cloves
I teaspoonful nutmeg
  Put above ingredients into a saucepan, warm, and stir well;
do not let it boil. Pour on this mixture one botde of plain soda.
Put in punch bowl and serve in cups.

                      SOOTHER PUNCH
Juice of half a lemon
I teaspoonful of sugar
25% brandy
25% Jamaica rum
25% applejack
25% curagao
 Shake, and strain into goblet with fine ice. Dress with fruit.

                      STEINWAY PUNCH
Juice of one lemon
I teaspoonful of sugar
75%         whisky                                                  j
25% curagao
  Shake, and strain into punch glass. Fill with seltzer.
2o6                   jack's manual

                      VANILLA PUNCH

                    (Use large bar glass)
1 teaspoonful of sugar, dissolved in water
2 dashes Curasao
3 dashes lemon juice
I dash angostura bitters
25% vanilla cordial
75% cognac brandy
  Stir well, fill up with ice, trim with fruit, and serve with
straws.



                     WALDORF PUNCH

Juice of half a lemon
I teaspoonful of sugar
100% rye whisky
   Shake, and strain into goblet with crushed ice. Dress with
fruit, and float a little claret on top.


          WALDORF PUNCH (NON-ALCOHOLIC)
Juice of one orange
Juice of one lemon
I fresh egg
  Shake, strain, and fill glass with seltzer.


                      WHISKY PUNCH

            (Use large bar glass half full of ice)
1 teaspoonful of sugar
Juice of one lemon
100% whisky and rum mixed
2 dashes angostura bitters
  Shake well, and strain into punch glass, with slice of orange,
and 3 or 4 dashes of curagao on top. Fill with seltzer and serve.
 ★       ★       ★       ★       ★      ★        ★    ★    ★




                             RicJ{eys




               APRICOT BRANDY            RICKEY

                     BOURBON         RICKEY

                     BRANDY       RICKEY

                IRISH      WHISKY       RICKEY

                        RUM RICKEY

                        RITZ RICKEY

                      SCOTCH RICKEY

   Make these the same as Gin Rickey, using whisky, brandy,
or rum instead of gin.



                         GIN   RICKEY

I piece of ice in glass
Juice of half a lime. Drop squeezed lime in glass.
100% dry gin
  Fill glass with fizz water. Stir with spoon and serve.


                     GOULD S RICKEY
I piece of ice in glass
Juice of one lime. Drop squeezed lime in glass.
100% dry gin
6 dashes raspberry syrup
  Fill glass with fizz water, stir, and serve.
2o8                 JACKS MANUAL


                   SLOE    GIN    RICKEY
I piece of ice in glass
Juice of half a lime. Drop squeezed lime in glass.
100% sloe gin
  Fill glass with fizz water and serve.
                            Sangarees




                      ALE SANGAREE

Fill up glass with ale
I teaspoonful of powdered sugar
   Stir gently. Grate a little nutmeg on top.

                    BRANDY SANGAREE

I teaspoonful of sugar
75% brandy
25% port wine
  Fill glass with ice, shake, and strain. Grate a little nutmeg
on top and serve.

                      GIN    SANGAREE

  Prepare this drink same as Brandy Sangaree, substituting gin
for brandy.
                   PORT   WINE SANGAREE

1 teaspoonful of sugar, with a little water
2 lumps of ice
100% port wine
  Stir with spoon, and grate a little nutmeg on top.

              SHERRY WINE SANGAREE
  Prepare this drink same as Port Wine Sangaree, substituting
sherry for port.
*      ★        ★        ★     ★      ★      ★       ★         ★




                             Slings




                     BRANDY        SLING

I crushed lump of sugar in old-fashioned glass
100% hrandy
I lump of ice
                    HOT BRANDY SLING
I teaspoonful of sugar
100% brandy
  Fill glass with hot water, grate nutmeg on top, and serve.
                     HOT     GIN    SLING

1 lump of sugar, dissolved in hot water
100% gin
  Fill glass with hot water. Stir well, grate nutmeg on top,
and add a slice of lemon.

                         IRISH     SLING

                (Use old-jashioned glass)
Crush a lump of sugar
Add 100% Irish whisky
2 small lumps of ice

                         RUM     SLING

I crushed lump of sugar in old-fashioned glass
100% Jamaica rum
I lump of ice
                                             SLINGS                      211



                                       SCOTCH      SLING

                  I crushed lump of sugar in old-fashioned glass
                  100% Scotch whisky
                  I orange peel
                  I lump of sugar

                                       WHISKY SLING
                  I lump of sugar
                  Enough water to dissolve the sugar
                    Drop squeezed lime in glass.
                  100% Scotch whisky
                    Fill glass with fizz water. Stir with spoon.




                                                                    1.
                                                                   V V




h ■ A':
i '■ .V "•.I'M-
'(■fji'M'' '
                           Smashes




                     BRANDY SMASH
Vz teaspoonful of sugar
3 sprigs of fresh mint
100% brandy
  Fill glass with shaved ice, stir well with spoon, and ornament
with fruit in season.

                          GIN   SMASH
1 teaspoonful of sugar
2 sprigs of mint
  Dissolve with a little water.
100% dry gin
Yz glass of cracked ice
  Stir well, and serve in old-fashioned cocktail glass.

                MEDFORD RUM            SMASH
1 teaspoonful of sugar
2 sprigs of mint pressed in sugar to extract essence
100% rum
Yz glass of cracked ice
  Stir with spoon, dress with fruits in season, and serve with
straws.

                        MINT      SMASH
Crush some mint and Yz lump of sugar in old-fashioned glass.
100% rye whisky
I lump of ice
  Stir and serve.
                          SMASHES                      213


                     WHISKY        SMASH

I teaspoonful of sugar
3 sprigs of fresh mint
A little water to dissolve sugar
  Crush mint until essence is extracted.
Yi glass of cracked ice
100% rye whisky
  Stir well with spoon, ornament with fruits in season, and
serve with straws.
                            Sours




                    AMER    PICON     SOUR

Juice of half a lemon
Juice of half a lime
I small teaspoonful of sugar
25% grenadine syrup
75% Amer Picon
  Shake well and strain into sour glass; then put in a slice of
orange, a slice of pineapple, and a cherry.



                    APPLEJACK SOUR
One teaspoonful of sugar
Juice of a lemon
% glassful of cracked ice
100% applejack
  Stir with spoon, strain into glass, and ornament with fruit
in season.



                      BRANDY      SOUR

Vz teaspoonful of sugar
Juice of half a lemon
  Add a little water to dissolve sugar. Stir well with spoon.
100% brandy
Vz glass fine ice
  Shake, strain into glass, and serve with slice of orange.
                             SOURS                   215

                    BRUNSWICK         SOUR
Juice of a lemon
I teaspoonful of granulated sugar
100% rye whisky
  Shake well, strain, and float claret on top.

              CANADIAN        WHISKY SOUR
Juice of half a lemon
Juice of half a lime
I teaspoonful of sugar
100% Canadian whisky
I dash grenadine syrup
  Shake well, and dress with fruit.

                    CHAMPAGNE         SOUR

1 lump of sugar
Juice of half a lemon
  Fill glass with champagne. Stir well, and ornament with
fruits in season.

              DOUBLE STANDARD SOUR
Juice of a lime
   teaspoonful of sugar
50% rye whisky
50% dry gin
2 dashes of raspberry syrup
  Shake and strain. One squirt of seltzer on top.

                          EGG SOUR

I teaspoonful of sugar
Yolk of an egg
Juice of half a lemon
I dash curagao
100% brandy                                      *
V2 glassful of cracked ice
  Shake well with shaker, strain, and serve.
2i6                 jack's manual

                          GIN   SOUR

Vz teaspoonful of sugar
100% dry gin
Yz glassful cracked ice
  Shake well, and serve in highball glass.



                  GRENADINE GIN SOUR
Juice of half a lemon
25% grenadine syrup
75%     gin
 Shake well, strain into sour glass, and dress with fruit.



                   GRENADINE SOUR
Juice of a small lemon
100% grenadine syrup
  Shake well, and strain into sour glass. Dress with fruit.



                     HANCOCK SOUR
Juice of a lime
I teaspoonful of sugar
100% Bourbon whisky
I dash of rum
  Shake and strain. Dress with fruit in season. One squirt of
seltzer on top.


                  IRISH    WHISKY SOUR
  Same as Whisky Sour, except use Irish whisky instead of
rye or Bourbon.
                            SOURS                              217

                   JAMAICA RUM SOUR
Yz teaspoonful powdered sugar
Juice of a lemon
100% Jamaica rum
  Fill glass with ice, shake well, strain, and serve.

                         JERSEY SOUR
Yz teaspoonful of sugar
100% applejack
Juice of a lemon
Yz glass of cracked ice
  Shake well with shaker, strain, top with a little fizz water,
and serve with slice of lemon.

                   MEDFORD RUM           SOUR

I teaspoonful of sugar
Juice of a lemon
100% Medford rum
  Fill glass with cracked ice. Stir well with spoon, strain, dress
with fruits in season, and serve.

                   MILLIONAIRE SOUR
Juice of a lime
I dash of lemon juice
25% grenadine syrup
75%     whisky
3 or 4 dashes of curagao
  Shake well, strain, dress with fruit, and serve.

                    ROOSEVELT SOUR
Juice of half a lemon
I dash of lime juice
100% applejack
I teaspoonful of sugar
  Shake well, strain, dress with fruit in season, and serve.
2i8                 jack's manual

                         RUM        SOUR

Juice of half a lemon
I teaspoonful of sugar
100% rum
  Shake well, and strain into sour glass. Dress with fruit.


                     ST. CROIX SOUR
Yz teaspoonful of sugar
Juice of a lemon
100% St. Croix rum
  Fill glass with cracked ice. Shake with a shaker, strain, trim
with fruits in season, and serve.


                     SARATOGA         SOUR

Juice of half a lemon
I teaspoonful of sugar
100% rye whisky
  Shake well. Dress with fruit. Squirt seltzer, and float claret.


                       SCOTCH SOUR
  Same as Rum Sour, using Scotch whisky instead of rum.


                       SILVER        SOUR

Juice of a lemon
I teaspoonful of sugar
25% Jamaica rum
25% brandy
25% Curasao
25% applejack
  Shake well, strain into sour glass, and dress with fruit in
season.
                            SOURS                           219


                       SOUTHERN     SOUR

Juice of half a lemon
I teaspoonful of sugar
100% St. Croix rum
  Shake and strain. Dress with fruit in season and float claret.


                       TOURAINE SOUR
  Same as Whisky Sour, with dash of benedictine. Float claret.


                       WHISKY SOUR
Yi teaspoonful of sugar
Juice of a lemon
100% rye whisky
  Fill glass with ice. Shake well and strain in glass, and add
one slice of orange.




                          %



                                          ■      v      *
                                      t ^ I. '       tUf"
★           ★    ★         ★      ★      ★       ★       ★      ★




                               Toddies




                           APPLE TODDY
I teaspoonful of sugar dissolved in hot water
100% applejack
     r\ /       1_




54 of a baked apple
    Fill glass two-thirds full of boiling water, stir, grate nutmeg
on top, and serve.


                       BRANDY         TODDY

                     {IJse whis\y glass)
I teaspoonful of sugar dissolved in a little water
I small piece of ice
  Fill with brandy.


                            GIN   TODDY

                       (Use whis\y glass)
54 teaspoonful of sugar, dissolved well in a litde water
I or 2 lumps of broken ice
100% gin
    Stir well and serve.


                     HOT SCOTCH TODDY
54 teaspoonful of sugar. Dissolve with a little hot water
100% Scotch whisky
    Stir, and grate a little nutmeg on top.
                           TODDIES                            221


                    KENTUCKY         TODDY

Crush half a lump of sugar with a little water in an old-fashioned
     glass.
ioo% Bourbon
I lump of ice
  Stir.


                        MINT     TODDY

Crush half a lump of sugar and 3 sprigs of mint in old-
     fashioned glass
I pony white mint
I lump of ice
  Stir and serve.


                        PEACH     TODDY

Crush half a lump of sugar in old-fashioned glass
100% peach brandy
I lump of ice
I lemon peel

                    PENDENNIS        TODDY

Crush half a lump of sugar with a litde water in an old-
     fashioned glass.
100% Bourbon
I lump of ice

                        RUM     TODDY

  Same as Peach Toddy, using 100% Jamaica rum instead of
peach brandy.

                     SCOTCH       TODDY

 Same as Peach Toddy, using Scotch whisky instead of beach
brandy.
222                 JACK S MANUAL


                    SOUTHERN      TODDY

i4 lump of sugar crushed in old-fashioned glass.
100% Bourbon
I lemon peel
  Stir.


                    WHISKY      TODDY

I teaspoonful of sugar
I teaspoonful of water
100% whisky
  Dissolve sugar in a little water, add the whisky, stir with
spoon, and serve.
r
         ★      ★       ★      ★         ★       ★    ★         ★     *




                    A Few Reminders for Bartenders




          Dress neatly, not loud.
                                *     *      *


          See that your linen is in good repair and clean.
                                *     *      *


          White is the correct dress for a man behind the bar.
                                #     *      *


          Do not smoke or chew tobacco while on duty.
                                *    *       *


         Avoid drinking with customers while on duty.
                                #    *       #


         When you are off watch, go out; don't hang around.
                                #    #       #


         Be on time; the other man gets tired as well as you.
                               #     #       #


         Be polite and affable at all times, no matter how painful.
                               #     #       #


         Do not shake dice or enter into games with customers.
                               #             #


         Familiarity breeds contempt; don't get chummy.
    ■>                         #     #       #

         Look out for the usual hangers-on, the usual knockers.
224                 JACKS MANUAL

  Keep your register correct; don't have to blame your partner.
                         *     *     #


  See that your glasses and bar are clean and tidy.
                         #     *     *


  Always serve a customer with a dry glass.
                         *     *     *


  Let the customers have all the arguments among themselves;
a good listener is a wise man.
                         *     *     #


  When serving plain drinks, always put a clean, dry glass on
the bar with a side glass of ice water or whatever water is de
sired. Put up the botde or decanter in front and let the customer
help himself.
                         *     *     »


  When in doubt,refer to this book; it will keep you up to date.
r


    TOASTS
t.
                             Toasts




For many of the following excellent toasts the author is under
singular obligations.

         Pleasure has its time; so, too, has Wisdom.
         Make love in thy youth.
         And in old age attend to thy salvation.
         Drink! for you know not whence you came.
           Nor why;
        Drink! for you know not why you go.
           Nor whence.

               Woman — she needs no eulogy;
               She speaks for herself.

               May we kiss whom we please,
               And please whom we kiss.                      '
                                                                 1,1 -/U

               Here's to the love that lies in
                 Woman's eyes,                     ^             \ 'I*
               And lies — and lies — and lies!

                 May we live to learn well,
                 And learn to live well.

          Never a lip is curved in pain
          That cannot be kissed into smiles again.
228               jack's manual
      As for the women, though we scorn and flout 'em
      May we live with, but not without them.

              May friendship propose the toast,
              And sincerity drink it.

            The grace that every man desires —
              The good graces of a woman.

          Here's to the girl that's good and sweet.
            Here's to the girl that's true.
          Here's to the girl that rules my heart — c--
            In other words, here's to you.

      May we never have friends who, like shadows.
      Keep close to us in the sunshine,
      Only to desert us on a cloudy day or in the night.

               The good die young —
               Here's hoping that you may live
               To a ripe old age.

         The bubble winked at me and said;
        "You'll miss me, brother, when you're dead."
                                          Oliver Herford


           Who loves not women, wine, and song
           Will be a fool his whole life long.

               May we have those in our arms
               That we love in our hearts.


                Here's short shoes and long corns
                  To our enemies!
                               (Old English Toast)
                     TOASTS                       229

  To Friendship:
   Here's to the tears of friendship!
  May they crystallize as they fall and be worn
   As gems in the memory of those we love.

    Here's to love, a thing so divine,
      Description makes it but the less;
    'Tis what we feel, but cannot define;
      'Tis what we know, but cannot express.

    Here's to the prettiest.
    Here's to the wittiest.
    Here's to the truest of all who are true.
    Here's to the neatest one.
    Here's to the sweetest one.
    Here's to them all in one — here's to you.

      After man came woman — and
        She has been after him ever since.

        May the sunshine of plenty dispel
           the clouds of care.

When two people get married, they become one;
 The argument is usually — which one?

           Here's to the whole world.
           For fear some fool will be sore ^
           Because he's left out.

   May our eyes be no keener when we look
   Upon the faults of others
   Than when we survey our own.

        May all single men be married.
        And all married men be happy.
      230             JACK S MANUAL

                The ladies! Our arms to their defense,
                Their arms our recompense.

                Here's a sigh to those who love me.
                And a smile to those who hate;
                And whatever skies above me,
                Here's a heart for every fate.

              Drink today and drown all sorrow;
              You shall perhaps not drink tomorrow;
              Best while you have it, use your breath.
              There is no drinking after death.

            Here's to you my dear.
              And to the dear that's not here, my dear;
            But if the dear that's not here, my dear.
              Were here, my dear,
            I'd not be drinking to you, my dear.

                     I drink to the general joy
                       of the whole table.
                                        — Shakspere


                 May we never murmur without cause^
                   and never have cause to murmur.


                 May you live all the days of your life.

              To our noble selves:
                 Why not toast ourselves.
               And praise ourselves.
                 Since we have the best means
               Of knowing all the good in ourselves.?




liu
                       TOASTS                             231

     Then wreath the bowl with flowers of soul
       The brightest wit can find us;
     We'll take a flight toward heaven tonight
       And leave dull earth behind us!

           Love is the inspiring wine-
             Mingling tears and laughter;
           Marriage is the never failing
              Headache the day after.

       To Woman:
         The fairest work of the Great Author.
       The edition is large,
         And no man should be without a copy.

         I wish thee health,
         I wish thee wealth,
         I wish thee gold in store,
         I wish thee heaven upon earth.
         What else could I wish thee more?

Once more fill a bumper — ne'er talk of the hour;
  On hearts thus united,old Time has no power.
May our lives — though, alas! like the wine of tonight.
  They must soon have an end — to the last —
Flow as bright.

         Here's to the heart.
           Though another's it be;
         Here's to the cheeks.
           Though they bloom not for me.

      The Ladies:
        We admire them for their beauty.
      Respect them for their intelligence.
         Adore them for their virtue.
      And love them because we can't help it.
232                  JACKS MANUAL

                   Life is but a merry spree
                     With its joy and trouble.
                   Woman is the tempting glass,
                     Flirtation is the bubble.

      Come, a health! And it's not to be slighted with sips,
        A cold pulse, or a spirit supine —
      All the blood in my heart seems to rush to my lips
        To commingle its flow with the wine.

                 Here's a toast to all who are here.
                   No matter where you're from;
                 May the best day you have seen v
                   Be worse than your worst to come.

            Here's to the maiden of bashful fifteen;
              Here's to the widow of fifty;
             Here's to the flaunting, extravagant queen.
               And here's to the housewife that's thrifty!

                 Were't the last drop in the well,
                   As I gasp'd upon the brink.
                 Ere my fainting spirit fell,
                   'Tis to thee that I would drink.

             Here's to the lasses we've loved, my lad,
             Here's to the lips we've pressed;
               For of kisses and lasses.
               Like liquor in glasses.
             The last is always the best.

               May your joy be as deep as the ocean, /
               Your trouble as light as its foam.

                  Here's to love and unity.
                  Dark corners and opportunity^/
                     TOASTS                            233

       Let us have wine and women, mirth
         and laughter —
       Sermons and soda water the day after.
                                             — Byron


       Then fill tonight, with hearts as light.
         To love as gay and fleeting.
       As bubbles that swim on the beaker's rim.
         And break on the lips while meeting.

         While there's life on the lips,
            While there's warmth in the wine,
         One deep health I'll pledge,
            And that health shall be thine.


            Here's to the chaperon!
              May she learn from Cupid
            Just enough blindness
              To be sweetly stupid!

         Here's to one and only one.
           And may that one be she
         Who loves but one and only one.
          And may that one be me!

Love is a vessel of delicate mould.
  Must be guarded with care never ending.
The treasure it holds is a treasure untold
  But when broken, it's passed beyond mending.

    Here's to the sparkling wine;
    Here's to your sweetheart and mine;
    May he be faithful and she be true.
    Say,I'd leave my happy home for you.
234                  JACKS MANUAL

           May you live as long as you like,
           And have all you like as long as you live.

      I drink it as the Fates ordain it.
         Come,fill it and have done with the rhymes;
      Fill up the lonely glass and drain it,
        In memory of dear old times.

           Here's to a long life and a merry one,
           A quick death and an easy one,
           A pretty girl and a true one,
           A cold bottle and another one.

          Sparkling and bright in the liquid light
             Does the wine of our goblets gleam in.
           With hue as red as the rosy bed
             Which a bee would choose to dream in.




                                                        :   '
INDEX TO RECIPES




                            !'M,

             ",    -y-y*'
                           Index to Recipes "




                                    Antilles Cocktail, 40
                                    Apollinaris Lemonade, 148
Absinthe, 151                       Appetizer, 153
Absinthe Cocktail, 39               Apple Toddy, 220
Absinthe Drip, 151                  Applejack Cocktail, 41
Absinthe Frappe, 141                Applejack Cocktail (Special), 41
Adalor Cup, 118                     Applejack Sour, 214
Adonis Cocktail, 39                 Apple-Pie Cocktail, 4X
Alaska Cocktail, 39                 Apricot Brandy Rickey, 207
Ale Beanie Cocktail, 39             Ardsley Cocktail, 41
Ale Cup, 118                        Ardsley Cooler, in
Ale Sangaree, 209                   Arf and Arf, 153
Alexander Cocktail, 39              Armour Cocktail, 41
Alexander's Sister Cocktail, 40     Arctic Punch (non-alcoholic), 188
Allies Cocktail, 40                 Astor Punch, 188
Amer Picon Highball, 142            Astoria Cocktail, 42
Amer Picon Pouffle, 151             Astringent, 153
Amer Picon PoufBe Fizz, 129         Auto Cocktail, 42
Amer Picon Sour, 214                Automobile Cooler, in
American Beauty Punch, 188          Aviation Cocktail, 42
Ammonia and Seltzer, 151            Aviator, 153
Anderson Cocktail, 40
Angel Blush, 152                                      B
Angel Dream, 152                    B. B. Highball, 142
Angel Kiss, 152                     B. V. D. Cocktail, 51
Angostura Fizz, 129                 Bacardi Cocktail, 42
Angostura Ginger Ale, 152           Bacardi Highball, 142
Angostura Grapefruit, 152           Bachelor Dream, 153
Angostura Lemonade, 148             Bachelor's Rose, 154
Angostura Phosphate, 152            Ballantine Cocktail, 42
Angostura Soda, 153                 Baltimore Bracer, 154
Anisette Frappe, 141                Baltimore Egg Nogg, 127
Anne's Delight, 40                  Bamboo Cocktail, 42
IV                                INDEX


Baraccas Cocktail, 43                Blanche Cocktail, 47
Barbary Coast Cocktail, 43           Blue Blazer, 155
Barry Cocktail, 43                   Bobbie Burns Cocktail, 47
Bath Cocktail, 43                    Bogerz Cocktail, 48
Bayard Fizz, 129                     Boles Cocktail, 48
Beadlestone Cocktail, 43             Bonnet Cocktail, 48
Beals Cocktail, 44                   Booby Cocktail, 48
Beauty Cocktail, 44                  Bordelaise Punch, 189
Beauty Spot Cocktail, 44             Bornn's Cocktail, 48
Beef Tea, 154                        Boston Cooler, 112
Beer Shandy, 154                     Boston Milk Punch, 189
Belmont Cocktail, 44                 Bourbon Collins, no
Benedictine Frappe, 141              Bourbon Highball, 143
Benz Cocktail, 44                    Bourbon Rickey, 207
Bermuda Highball, 142                Bourbon Whisky Punch, 189
Between-the-Sheets Cocktail, 45      Bowl Egg Nogg, 127
Bicarbonate of Soda, 154             Bradley Martin, 156
Big Four, 154                        Brain Duster, 156
Bijou Cocktail, 45                   Brandy and Ginger Ale, 156
Bill Meyer Punch, 188                Brandy and Soda, 156
Billin Cocktail, 45                  Brandy burned with Peach, 156
Billy Taylor Cooler, iii             Brandy Champrelle, 157
Bird Cocktail, 45                    Brandy Cocktail, 49
Bird of Paradise Fizz, 129           Brandy Collins, no
Bishop, 155                          Brandy Crusta, 157
Bishop Cocktail, 45                  Brandy Daisy, 124
Bishop Potter Cocktail, 46           Brandy Egg Nogg, 127
Bishop Punch (Pitcher), 189          Brandy Fix, 157
Bishop's Cup, 118                    Brandy Fizz, 130
Bismarck Cocktail, 46                Brandy Flip, 138
Bismarck Fizz, 130                   Brandy Float, 157
Bissell Sweeper, 155                 Brandy Highball, 143
Black Hawk Cocktail, 46              Brandy Julep, 146
Black Jack, 155                      Brandy Punch, 190
Blackstone Cocktail, 46              Brandy Rickey, 207
Blackstone Cocktail, No. i, 46       Brandy Sangaree, 209
Blackstone Cocktail, No. 2, 47       Brandy Scaffa, 158
Blackstone Cocktail, No. 3, 47       Brandy Sling, 210
Blackstone Cooler, 111               Brandy Smash, 212
Blackstone Nectar Punch (non-alco    Brandy Sour, 214
  holic), 189                        Brandy Toddy, 220
Black Stripe, 155                    Brant Cocktail, 49
Blackthorne Cocktail, 47             Bridal Cocktail, 49
                                       INDEX


    Brighton Cocktail, 49                  Champagne Frappe, 141
    Bronx Cocktail, 49                     Champagne Julep, 146
    Bronx Dry Cocktail, 50                 Champagne Punch, 191
    Bronx Terrace Cocktail, 50             Champagne Sour, 215
    Brooklyn Cocktail, 50                  Champagne Velvet, 158
    Brown Cocktail, 50                     Chantecler Cocktail, 54
    Brunswick Punch, 190                   Chartreuse Frappe, 141
    Brunswick Sour, 215                    Chauncey Cocktail, 54
    Brut Cocktail, 50                      Chicago Fizz, 130
    Brut Cocktail (French style), 51       Chinese Cocktail, 54
    Bud's Cocktail, 51                     Chocolate Cocktail, 54
    Bull Moose Punch, 190                  Chocolate Daisy, 124
    Bull Pup Cooler, 112                   Chocolate Flip, 138
    Bulldog Cooler, 112                    Chocolate Punch, 191
    Bull's-Eye Cup, 119                    Chrisp Cocktail, 54
    Burgundy Cup, 119                      Christie Cocktail, 55
    Burton-on-Trent, 173'                  Chrysanthemum Cocktail, 55
    Busch Cocktail, 51                     Cider Cocktail, 55
    Busse Flip, 138                        Cider Cup, 119
    Butcher Cocktail, 51                 * Cincinnati Cocktail, 55
    Byrrh Wine Daisy, 124                  Clare Cocktail, 55
                                           Clarendon Cocktail, 55
                                           Claret Cobbler, 37
 C. A. W.Cocktail, 53                      Claret Cup, 120
 C. H. P. Cocktail, 54                     Claret Fizz, 130
 C. O. D. Cocktail, 57                     Claret Lemonade, 148
 Cabinet Cocktail, 52                      Claret Punch, 191
 Cafe au Kirsch Cocktail, 52               Claridge Cocktail, 56
'Cafe de Paris Cocktail, 52                Cleaves Delight, 158
    Calisaya Cocktail, 52                  Clifton Cocktail, 56
    Calumet Club Cocktail, 52              Cliquot, 158
   Cameo Kirby Cocktail, 53                Clove Cocktail, 56
    Campill Cocktail, 53                   Clover Club Cocktail, 56
    Canadian Fizz, 130                     Clover Leaf, 158
   Canadian Whisky Sour, 215               Clover Leaf Cocktail, 56
   Captain Cocktail, 53                    Club Cocktail, 57
   Cardinal Punch, 190                     Club Soda Lemonade, 148
   Cascade Highball, 143                   Coffee Cocktail, 57
   Cat Cocktail, 53                        Coffee Flip, 138
   Catawba Cobbler, 37                     Coffee Kirsch, 159
   Champagne Cobbler, 37                   Cognac h la Russe, 159
   Champagne Cocktail, 53                  Cold Deck Cocktail, 57
   Champagne Cup, 119                      Collins, no




                                           V
  VI                            INDEX


V Colonial Cocktail, 57                Dimension Cocktail, 60
  Columbus Cocktail, 57                Dogs' Days, 160
  Combination Punch, 191               Donnelly's, 160
  Conclave Punch (non-alcoholic),      Dorr Cocktail, 61
    192                                Double Standard Sour, 215
 Coney Cocktail, 58                    Down Cocktail, 61
 Congress Cocktail, 58                 Dream, 161
 Cook Cocktail, 58                    -Dream Cocktail, 61
 Cooperstown, 159                      Dry Gin Punch, 195
 Cornell Cocktail, 58                  Dry Martini Cocktail, 61
 Coronation Cocktail, 58               Dubonnet Cocktail, 6l
 Consolidated Cocktail, 58             Duchess Cocktail, 62
 Cotton Cocktail, 59                   Duke Cocktail, 62
 Country Club Cooler, 112              Duplex Cocktail, 62
 Cream Flip, 139                       Dunham Cooler, 112
 Cream Punch, 192                      Durkee Cooler, 113
  Creme de Menthc Frappe, 141          Dutch Charlie's Cocktail, 62
  Creme de Menthe Highball,            Dutch Mike, 161
    143
 Creme de Menthe on Ice, 159
 Creole Cocktail, 59                   Edner Cocktail, 62
  Creole Lady, 160                     Egg Flip, 139
  Creole Punch, 192                    Egg Lemonade, 149
  Crescent Cocktail, 59                Egg Phosphate, i6i
  Cris Cocktail, 59                    Egg Sour, 215
  Crystal Slipper, 160                 Elk's Delight, 161
  Cuban Cocktail, 59                   Elmwood Punch, 193
  Cuban Milk Punch (non-alcoholic),    Elsie Ferguson Fizz, 131
    192                                Emerald Cocktail, 62
  Curasao Frappe, 141                  Emerson Cocktail, 63
  Curasao Punch, 192                   Empress Punch, 194
  Cushman Cocktail, 60                 Evans' Cocktail, 63
                                       Evans' Cooler, 113
                    D                  Evans' Shandy Gaff, 162
  Daiquiri Cocktail, 60                Ewing Cocktail, 63
  Daisy Fizz, 131                      Express Cocktail, 63
  Daniel Webster Punch, 193
  Danny Wilson Punch, 193
  Dean Cocktail, 60                    Fairbanks Cocktail, 63
  Delmonico Cocktail, 60               Fancy Brandy Cocktail, 64
  De Luxe Bracer, 160                  Fancy Claire, 162
  Devil's Cocktail, 60                  Fancy Gin Cocktail, 64
  Diamond Fizz, 131                     Fancy Whisky Cocktail, 64
  Dicorie, 160                          Farmer's Cocktail, 64
                                  INDEX                            VU


Favorite Cocktail, 64                Gin Fix, 164
Fedora, 162                          Gin Fizz, 131
Fifth Avenue Cocktail, 64            Gin Flip, 139
Fine and Dandy Cocktail, 64          Gin Highball, 143
Fine Lemonade for Parties, 249       Gin Julep, 146
Fish House Punch, 194                Gin Punch, 194
Five-Fifteen Cocktail, 65            Gin Rickey, 207
Floater, 162                         Gin Sangaree, 209
Floradora Cooler, 113                Gin Smash, 212
Floradora Cooler (Imperial style),   Gin Sour, 216
  113                                Gin Toddy, 22a
Fluffy Ruffles Cocktail, 65          Ginger Ale Cooler, 113
Flushing Cocktail, 65                Ginger Ale Cup (with liquor), 120
Folies Bergere Cocktail, 65          Ginger Ale Cup (without liquor).
Folies Bergere Cooler, 113
Folies Bergere Pousse Cafe, 162      Ginger Ale Punch (non-alcoholic),
Four-Dollar Cocktail, 65               194
Fourth-Degree Cocktail, 65           Ginger Daisy, 125
Fourth Regiment Cocktail, 66         Glasgow Flip, 139
Fowler Cocktail, 66                  Golden Dream, 165
Fox Shot Cocktail, 66                Golden Fizz, 132
Frank Hill Cocktail, 66              Golden Slipper, 165
Frankenjack Cocktail. 66             Golf Cocktail, 67
Frappes assorted, 141                Golfer, 165
Frazie, 163                          Good Fellow Cocktail, 67
Freeman's Bliss, 163                 Good Luck Nightcap, 165
French Canadian Cocktail, 67         Good Times Cocktail, 68
French Flag, 163                     Goodman Punch, 195
Fruit Lemonade, 149                  Gould's Rickey, 207
Futurity Cocktail, 67                Graham Cocktail, 68
                                     Grape Juice Cooler, 114
                                     Grape Juice Cup (with liquor), 121
                                     Grape Juice Cup (without liquor),
Galvez Fizz, 131                       121

Garden of Eden, 163                  Grape Juice Julep, 146
Gibson Cocktail, 67                  Green Room Cocktail, 68
Gin and Calamus, 163                 Green Tie, 165
Gin and Milk, 163                    Grenadine Gin Fizz, 132
Gin and Molasses, 164                Grenadine Gin Sour, 216
Gin and Tansy, 164                   Grenadine Highball, 143
Gin Bump, 164                        Grenadine Sour, 216
Gin Cocktail, 67                     Grit Cocktail, 68
Gin Crusta, 164                      Guggenheimer Cocktail, 68
Gin Daisy, 125                       Gum Syrup, 166
   Vlll                         INDEX


                    H               Hot Spiced Rum, 167
  Half and Half, i66              , Howard Cocktail, 71
  Hall Cocktail, 68                 Hudson Cocktail, 71
  Halsted Street, i66               Hungarian Bracer, 168
  Hamersley Cocktail, 69            Hunter Cocktail, 71
  Hamilton Cocktail, 6g             Hurricane Cocktail, 72
  Hancock Sour, 216
                                                    I
  Happy Thought, 166
  Harding Punch, 195                Ideal Cocktail, 72
  Hart Cocktail, 69                 Illinois Thunderbolt, 168
  Harvard Cocktail, 69            • Imperial Cocktail, 72
• Harvester Cocktail, 69            Imperial Egg Nogg, 128
  Havana Cocktail, 69               Improved Manhattan Cocktail, 72
  Hawaii Cooler, 114                Improved Martini Cocktail, 72
  Hawaiian Cocktail, 70             Infuriator Cocktail, 73
  Headache Drinks, 166              Iris Cocktail, 73
  Hearst Cocktail, 70               Irish Collins, no
  Herald Punch, 195                 Irish Rose, 168
  Highland Cocktail, 70            Irish Rose Highball, 144
    Highland Daisy, 125            Irish Sling, 210
<»■ Highstepper Cocktail, 70       Irish Whisky Cooler, 114
   Hillard Cocktail, 70            Irish Whisky Fizz, 132
   Hilly Croft Cooler, 114         Irish Whisky Punch, 197
   Hock Cobbler, 37                Irish Whisky Rickey, 207
   Hoffman House Cocktail, 70      Irish Whisky Sour, 216
   Holland Gin Fizz, 132           Irving Cocktail, 73
   Holland Gin Punch, 195          Isabelle Cocktail, 73
   Holstein Cocktail, 71           Italian Cocktail, 73
t' Homestead Cocktail, 71          Italian Wine Lemonade, 149
   Honolulu Cocktail, 71
  Hook and Eye, 167                                   J
  Horse's Neck, 167                Jack Kaiser Favorite, 168
  Hot Brandy Sling, 210            Jack-Rabbit Cocktail, 74
  Hot Claret Punch, 196            Jack Rose Cocktail, 74
  Hot Creole Punch, 196            Jack Zeller Cocktail, 74
  Hot Egg Nogg, 128                Jamaica Rum Sour, 217
  Hot Gin Sling, 210               Jap Fizz, 132
  Hot Irish Punch, 196             Japanese Cocktail, 74
  Hot Lemonade, 149                Jenks Cocktail, 74
  Hot Milk Punch, ig6              Jersey Cocktail, 75
  Hot Rum, 167                     Jersey Flashlight, 168
  Hot Rum Punch, 197               Jersey Lily Cocktail, 75
  Hot Scotch, 167                  Jersey Lily Pousse Cafe, 168
  Hot Scotch Toddy, 220            Jersey Sour, 217
                                  INDEX                               IX


  Jersey Sunset, 169                    Lone Tree Cocktail, 78
  Jim Lee Cocktail, 75                 *Love Cocktail, 79
  Jockey Club Cocktail, 75              Luigi Cocktail, 78
  John Cocktail, 75                     Lusitania Cocktail, 79
  John Collins, no
  John Wood Cocktail, 75                                 M
  Judge Smith Cocktail, 76              Magnus, 171
  June Daisy, 125                       Mah-Jongg Cocktail, 79
  June Rose, 169                        Maiden's Blush Cocktail, 79
  Junkins Cocktail, 76                  Maiden's Dream, 171
                                        Mallory Cocktail, 79
                    K                   Mamie Taylor, 171
  Kentucky Colonel Cocktail, 76         Mamie Taylor (Southern style),
  Kentucky Mint Julep, 147                171
  Kentucky Toddy, 221                   Mamie Taylor's Sister, 171
  Khatura Cooler, 114                   Manhattan Cocktail, 79
  King Cole Fizz, 133                   Manhattan Jr. Cocktail, 80
  King's Cordial, 169                   Marconi Cocktail, 80
  Kirschwasser Punch, 197               Marguerite Cocktail, 80
  Knickebein, 169                       Marqueray Cocktail, 80
  Knickerbocker, 170                    Marquette Cocktail, 80
  Knickerbocker Baked, 170              Martini Cocktail, 80
  Knickerbocker Punch, 197              Martinique, 172
  Knickerbocker Special Cocktail, 76    Mary Garden Cocktail, 81
                                        Mauser Cocktail, 81
                                        May Wine Punch, 198
  Lalla Rookh Fizz, 133                 McCutcheon Cocktail, 81
  Larchmont Cocktail, 76                McHenry Cocktail, 81
  La Roche Cocktail, 76                 McLane Cocktail, 81
  Lawhill Cocktail, 77                  Medford Rum Punch, 198
  Lawrence Cocktail, 77                 Medford Rum Smash, 212
  Lemon Phosphate, 170                  Medford Rum Sour, 217
  Leonard Ritz, 170                     Merry Widow Cocktail, 81
A. Leonora Cocktail, 77                 Merry Widow Fizz, 133
   Leowi Cocktail, 77                   Merry Widow Punch, 198
A. Lewis Cocktail, 77                   Metropolitan Cocktail, 82
   Liberal Cocktail, 78                 Metropolitan Cocktail (Southern
  Lime Kiln, 170                          style), 82
  Little Devil Cocktail, 78             Milk and Seltzer, 172
  Little Maxime, 170                    Milk Punch, 199
  Loftus Cocktail, 78                   Milk Shake, 172
  London Cocktail, 78                   Mill Lane Cocktail, 82
  Lord Latounne Cup, 122                Miller Cocktail, 82
  Lord Baltimore Punch, 197             Millionaire Cocktail, 82
                                INDEX


 Millionaire Punch, 199                 Olivette Cocktail, 85
 Millionaire Sour, 217                  Olympic Cocktail, 85
 Milo Cocktail, 83                      Opal Cocktail, 86
 Mint Cooler, 114                       Opera Cocktail, 86
 Mint Julep, 147                        Orange Blossom Cocktail, 86
 Mint Punch (non-alcoholic), 199        Orange Blossom Cooler, 115
 Mint Smash, 212                        Orange Cocktail, 86
 Mint Toddy, 221                        Orangeade, 174
 Mississippi Punch, 199                 Orchard Punch, 201
 Montana Club Cocktail, 83               Orgeat Punch, 201
 Montgomery, 172                         Oxford University Nightcap, 174
 Monticello Punch, 200                 ' Oyster Cocktail, 86
 Moraine Cooler, 115                    Oyster Bay Cocktail, 87
 Morning Bracer, 172
                                                         P
 Morning Cocktail, 83
 Morning Glory Fizz, 133                Pall Mall Highball, 144
 Morning Star, 172                      Palmer Cocktail, 87
 Morton's Favorite, 173                 Palmetto Cocktail, 87
 Moselle Cup, 122                       Panama Cocktail, 87
 Mulled Ale, 173                        Pan-American Cocktail, 87
 Mulled Ale or a Burton-on-             Paradise Cocktail, 87
    Trent, 173                          Parisian Blonde Cocktail, 88
                                        Parisian Cocktail, 88
                    N                   Parisian Pousse Cafe, 174
■> Nana Cocktail, 83                    Parson's Cocktail, 88
   Narragansett Cocktail, 83            Pat Cocktail, 88
   Narragansett Cooler, 115             Patrick Cocktail, 88
   National Guard Punch, 200            Peach and Honey, 175
 Netherland Cocktail, 84                Peach Blow, 175
   New Orleans Fizz, 133                 Peach Brandy Punch, 201
   Newman Cocktail, 84                   Peach Toddy, 221
   Nicholas Cocktail, 84                 Peacock Cocktail, 89
■» North Pole Cocktail, 84               Pendennis Toddy, 221
  Nutting Cocktail, 84                   Perfect Cocktail, 89
                                         Perfecto, 175
                    O                    Pheasant Cocktail, 89
  Ojen Cocktail (American style), 85     Philadelphia Cocktail, 89
  Ojen Cocktail (Spanish Absinthe        Phoebe's Delight, 175
    Cocktail), 84                        Pick-me-up Cocktail, 89
  Old Delaware Fishing Punch, 200        Picon Cocktail, 89
  Old-Fashioned Cocktails, 85            Pineapple Julep, 147
  Old-Fashioned Whisky Punch, 200        Pine Tree Cocktail, 89
  Old Oxford College Mulled Ale,         Ping-Pong Cocktail, 90
    173                                  Pink Lady Cocktail, 90
                               INDEX                              XI


   Plain Lemonade, 150            Reis Cocktail, 93
   Plaza Cocktail, 90             Remsen Cooler, 115
   Poet's Dream Cocktail, go      Remus Fizz, 134
   Polly, 175                     Renaud's Pousse Cafe, 178
 Polo Cocktail, 90                Reviver Flip, 140
'Polo Farm Cocktail, 90           Rhine Wine and Seltzer, 178
  Pompier Highball, 144           Rhine Wine Cobbler, 38
  Pony of Brandy, 176             Rhine Wine Cup, 122
  Pony Punch, 201                 Rhine Wine Punch, 202
  Pope Highball, 144              Richmond Cocktail, 93
  Port Starboard, 176             Riding Club Cocktail, 93
  Port Wine Cobbler, 38           Ritz Daisy, 126
  Port Wine Flip, 139             Ritz Fizz, 134
  Port Wine Punch, 202            Ritz Highball, 144
  Port Wine Sangaree, 209         Ritz Rickey, 207
  Porter Cocktail, 91             Rob Roy Cocktail, 94
  Porter Shandy, 176              Robert Burns Cocktail, 93
  Porto Rico, 176                 Robert E. Lee Cooler, 115
  Postmaster, 176                 Robin Cocktail, 94
  Pousse Caf^ 176                 Robinson Cocktail, 94
  Pousse I'Amour, 176             Rock and Rye, 178
* Prairie Cocktail, 91            Rocky Mountain Cooler, 115
  Prince Cocktail, 91             Rogers Rock, 178
  Prince Henry Cocktail, 9^       Rolls-Royce Cocktail, 94
  Princess Mary Cocktail, 91      Roman Punch, 202
  Princeton Cocktail, 91          Rose Cocktail, 94
  Promoter, 177                   Roosevelt Punch, 203
  Pueblo Cocktail, 91             Roosevelt Sour, 217
                                  Rossington Cocktail, 95
                                  Royal Fizz, 134
  Quaker's Cocktail, 92         V Royal Smile, 178
  Queen Charlotte, 177            Royal Smile Cocktail, 95
  Queen's Cocktail, 92            Ruby Cocktail, 95
  Queen's Highball, 144           Ruby Royal Cocktail, 95
                                  Ruebli Fizz, 134
                  R              Rum and Honey or Molasses, 179
'' Racquet Club Cocktail, 92      Rum Collins, no
   Randolph, 177                 Rum Daisy, 126
  Raphael Cocktail, 92           Rum Egg Nogg, 128
  Raymond Cocktail, 92           Rum Flip, 140
 Raymond Hitchcocktail, 93       Rum Rickey, 207
 Red Lion Cocktail, 93           Rum Sling, 210
 Red Swizzle, 177                Rum Sour, 218
 Regent Punch, 202               Rum Toddy, 221
                                                                       h'
xu                            INDEX


Rye Collins, no                      Sherman Cocktail, 97
Rye Highball, 145                    Sherry and Angostura, 180
Rye Whisky Punch, 203                Sherry and Bitters, 180
                                     Sherry and Egg, 180
                                     Sherry Chicken, 180
S. G. Cocktail, 97                   Sherry Cobbler, 38
Sabbath Cocktail, 95                 Sherry Cocktail, 97
Sabbath Cooler, 116                  Sherry Flip, 140
Sabbath Morning Calm, 179            Sherry Wine Punch, 205
St. Charles Punch, 203               Sherry Wine Sangarce, 209
St. Croix Crusta, 179                Shonnard Cocktail, 97
St. Croix Fizz, 135                  Sidecar Cocktail, 98
St. Croix Rum Punch, 203             Silver Cocktail, 98
St. Croix Sour, 218                  Silver Dream, 180
St. Francis Cocktail, 95             Silver Fizz, 135
St. John Cocktail, 96                Silver Sour, 218
St. Peter Cocktail, 96               Silverman, 180
Salome Cocktail, 96                  Single Standard, 180
Salome Punch, 203                    Sirloin, 181
Sam Ward, 179                        Sir Walter Cocktail, 98
Sankey Punch, 204                    Sloe Gin Bump, 181
Sarsaparilla Cooler, 116             Sloe Gin Cocktail, 98
Saratoga Cocktail, 96                Sloe Gin Fizz, 135
Saratoga Sour, 218                   Sloe Gin Highball, 145
Sauterne Cobbler, 38                 Sloe Gin Rickey, 208
Sauterne Cup, 122                    Sloe Gin Punch, 195
Sauterne Cup (Southern style), 123   Slome Cocktail, 99
Sauterne Punch, 204                  Smallwood Cocktail, 99
Savoy Tango Cocktail, 96             Smith Cocktail, 99
Scheuer Cocktail, 96                 Snowball, 181
Schley Punch, 204                    Snowball Fizz, 135
Schulke Cocktail, 97                 Society Cocktail, 99
Scotch Collins, no                   Soda Cocktail, 99
Scotch Cooler, 116                   Soda Lemonade, 150
Scotch Highball, 145                 Soda Negus Bowl Punch, 205
Scotch Rickey, 207                   Soother Punch, 205
Scotch Sling, 211                    Soul Kiss Cocktail, loo
Scotch Sour, 218                     South Africa Cocktail, 100
Scotch Toddy, 221                    Southern Sour, 219
Scotch Whisky Fizz, 135              Southern Toddy, 222
Scotch Whisky Punch, 204             Spanish Absinthe Cocktail, 84
Seaside Cooler, n6                   Spaulding Cocktail, 100
Seltzer Lemonade, 150                Sphinx Cocktail, 100
Shandy Gail, 179                     Stanton Cocktail, 100
                              INDEX                              xm


    Star Cocktail, loi            Tussetto Cocktail, 104
   Star Daisy, 126                Tuxedo Cocktail, 104
   Starboard Light, 181           Twentieth Century, 185
   Steinway Punch, 205            Two-Spot Cocktail, 104
   Stinger, 181
   Stone Fence, 182                                U
   Stonewall, 182                - U. C. Cocktail, 104
   Stony Lonesome, 182         'Union League Cocktail, 105
   Story Cocktail, loi
   Strawberry Cocktail, loi
   Strawberry Fizz, 136           Vanilla Punch, 206
   Sunshine Cocktail, lOi         Van Lee Cocktail, 105
   Susie Taylor, 182              Van Wyck Cocktail, 105
   Suissess, 182                  Van Zandt Cocktail, 105
   Suissette, 182                 Velvet Cup, 123
   Swan Cocktail, 101             Vermouth Cocktail, 105
   Swiss Ess, 183                 Vermouth Frappe, 141
                                  Vermouth Highball, 145
                                  Vichy, 185
   Tango Cocktail, 102           Vienna Cocktail, 105
   Taxi Cocktail, 102            Violet Fizz, 136
   Tea Shake, 183                Virgin Cocktail, 106
   Terminal Cooler, 116
   Three-Quarter, 183                             W
   Tiptop Bracer, 183            Waldorf Cocktail, 106
   Tiptop Cocktail, 102          Waldorf Fizz (without liquor), 136
   Tit Float, 183                Waldorf Punch, 206
  Tom and Jerry, No. i, 184      Waldorf Punch (non-alcoholic), 206
  Tom and Jerry, No. 2, 184      Waldorf Queen Cocktail, io6.
  Tom Collins, 110               Waldorf Special Cocktail, 106
  Tom Fizz, 136                  Ward Eight Cocktail, 106
  Tom Gin Punch, 195             Washington Cocktail, 107
  Touraine Sour, 219             Watkins Cocktail, 107
  Tracey's Delight, 184          Waxen Cocktail, 107
  Treasurer Cocktail, 102        Webster Cocktail, 107
 Trilby Cocktail, 102            Wedding Cocktail, 107
 Trowbridge Cocktail, 103        West India Cocktail, 108
'Tucker Cocktail, 103            Whisky Cocktail, 108
 Tulane Cocktail, 103            Whisky Cobbler, 38
  Turf Cocktail, 103             Whisky Crusta, 186
  Turf Club Cocktail, 103        Whisky Daisy, 126
  Turkish Sherbet, 185           Whisky Egg Nogg, 128
  Turk's Neck Cup, 123           Whisky Fix, 186
  Turn Cocktail, 104             Whisky Fizz, 136
XIV                            INDEX


Whisky Flip, 140                  White Plush, 187
Whisky Float, 186                 White Rat Cocktail, 108
Whisky Grenadine Fizz, 137        Widow's Dream, 187
Whisky Julep, 147                 Widow's Kiss, 187
Whisky Lemonade, 150              Williams Cocktail, 108
Whisky Punch, 206                 Wonder Cocktail, 109
Whisky Sling, 211
Whisky Smash, 213
Whisky Sour, 219                  Yale Cocktail, 109
Whisky Toddy, 222                 Yankee Prince Cocktail, 109
White Cap, 186                    York Cocktail, 109
White Cooler, 117
White Elephant Cocktail, 108
White Horse, 186                  Zabriskie, 187
White Lion, 186                   Zaza Cocktail, 109
White Lion Cocktail, 108          Zazarac Cocktail, no
r-\ ■■
            A NOTE ON THE TYPE
      IN WHICH THIS BOOK IS SET
This boo\ is set in Granjon, a type named in compliment to
ROBERT GRANJON, but neither a copy of a classic face nor an
entirely original creation. George W. Jones dretv the basic de
sign for this type from classic sources, but deviated from his
model to profit by the intervening centuries of experience and
progress. This type is based prrimarily upon the type used by
Claude Garamond (i^io-6i) in his beautiful French boof^s, and
more closely resembles Garamond's otvn than do any of the
various modern types that bear his name.
  Of Robert Granjon nothing is hjiotvn before 1545, except
that he had begun his career as type-cutter in 152^. The boldest
and most original designer of his time, he tvas one of the first
to practise the trade of type-founder apart from that of printer.
Between IS49                 printed a number of bool{s in Paris,
also continuing as type-cutter. By 155J he was settled in Lyons
and had married Antoinette Salamon, whose father, Bernard,
was an artist associated with Jean de Tournes. Between ^557
and 1^62 Granjon printed about twenty boo\s in types designed
by himself, following, after the fashion of the day, the cursive
handwriting of the time. These types, usually \nown as
"caracteres de civilite," he himself called "lettres franqaises,"
as especially appi-opriate to his own country. He was granted
a monopoly of these types for ten years, but they were soon
copied. Granjon appears to have lived in Antwerp for a time,
    but was at Lyons in          and       tind for the next
       decade at Rome, wording for the Vatican and
           Medici presses, his wor\ consisting largely
              in cutting exotic types. Towards the
                  end of his life he may have re
                     turned to live in Paris,
                         where he died
                             in /590.
 This boo\ was composed, printed, and bound by The Plimp
 ton Press, Norwood, Mass. The paper was manufactured by
                   S. D. Warren Co., Boston.
hJiii
^9'irs§*
       Catlin Libiciry of The Detroit News
        Books ore locinecf for two weeks.
        Borrowers are resj^onsible for bdoks
       'drawn. Please do not lend this book.

         D U E AG a '53

       ..nrrf? ."t P- IQ^R .•...
         uKu X/^ tcoo

            '-    •.Cc:'


        ^ 1 m 10 '62 "
         ou JA 3 o3
       0 UDE30 :6|
       •0-u JA 'iu* 6


         NOV 0
'^Ci       JUL8
         HU.. .. i285 •
                 hdv 8%
             NOV ■: '■ fr,77


           sep 1i -i

          Form 3219




                                               -■'■*   "■
       6hl,^       G8j

D^^v^Grohusko, Jacob Abraham
           Jack's manual


mla 6^1.5 G8j
       Grohusko, Jacob Abraham
       AUTHOR
          Jack's manual
       TITLE



  1/   DATE LOANED         BORROWER'S    NAME   DEPT.


               P, 1955                                  m
                         /"11 UdLA.i-L          d-^i


                         l/              /
                                                "7^




       mM


                CATLIN UBRARY
                DETROIT.                 pws
