 CHICAGO AMERICAN, ANDOVER, 1234
   THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1934




 Health Cocktails in Debuts


           Ify The (Ampevon


Ni:\ i:ii IIAVi: i .sioion moki', ah-
     sorbed exprc.sslons than those on the
                                               I

     face.') of the fa.shlonables gathered
around a table In the Elizabeth      Arden
,salon yesterday noon.

  On the table were i)latters of crisp yel
low carrot.s, raw spinach, .sliced orange.s,
tomatoes and cabbage, all artistically
grouped and looking like the prize-win
ning vegetable arrangement in the Lake
Forest garden show. On one side was an
array of cocktail glasses. With the vases
of American Beauty roses against the sea-
green talTcta curtains and Mrs. Augustus
Kddy hovering hospitably around, it might
have been the .setting for a debut tea. It
WAS the debut of the .spinach cocktail in
society.


  Behind the table Dr. Bcngamln Gaye-
lord Hau.ser was putting the vegetables
into a press which extracted the Juice and
out of the Juices he was making cocktails.
Spinach and orange, celery and tomato,
orange and carrots. Some make beautiful
complexions, others are for pep and still
others, he said, can produce In one the
charms of a Mae West.

   The cocktail lesson was Mrs. William
 Mitchell's and Mrs. Leslie Wheeler's idea
                                               '.iL '
 and they got the Inspiration for It at the
         /Continued on back /lap)
'' *




       *>'H
  HEBE'S
TO BE HEALTHY
           Books by
  Bengamin Gayelord Houser



       DICTIONARY OF FOODS
(collaboration with ragnar berg)
    here's how to be healthy
    FOOD SCIENCE AND HEALTH

         CHILD FEEDING

          HEALTH DAY

      NEW HEALTH COOKERY

     TYPES AND TEMPERAMENTS

   HARMONIZED FOOD SELECTION

  KEENER VISION WITHOUT GLASSES




  TEMPO BOOKS, INC.
     HERE'S HOW
    TO BE HEALTHY

               BY

      BENGAMIN GAYELORD
            HAUSER




                              1
                              '4■


      TEMPO BOOKS, INC.
        580 FIFTH AVENUE

i      NEW YORK CITY, N. Y.
           COPYRIGHT

              1934

     TEMPO BOOKS, INC.




The entire contents of this book is
copyrighted by the publishers and
no part of it may be reprinted
without their written permission.
     HERE'S HOW TO BE

              HEALTHY

      By Bengamin Gayelord Hauser

COCKTAILS! What visions of tall, tin
      kling, appetite-stirring glasses the
mere thought of them brings to our minds—
and our palates! Martini, Dubonnet, Alex
ander, Manhattan—man's mind has cer
tainly been fertile in inventing new thrills
to arouse jaded appetites and stimulate fail
ing spirits.
  But now—Health Cocktails!
   No, they are not made of gin or whiskey
with a single pickled cherry or olive floating
disconsolately in its acrid bath. Here are
zesty, tangy juices of fresh young vegetables
and ripe fruit; green and yellow, sweet and
tart, they sparkle in the cocktail glasses and
are a revelation to those of us who have had
to he satisfied day after day with the juice
of the orange, the grapefruit, the tomato.
There are adventure and taste thrills in this

                                         [5]
                           Here's How

newly discovered health realm—^yes, and
health abimdant. Come with me;I'll be your
guide along the Trail of the Cocktail Shaker.
  Back in 1914 a dramatic experiment was
carried on in America which for a few short
but vivid weeks occupied the spotlight in the
news. Twelve convicts, six of them murder
ers, were promised unconditional pardons if
they would volunteer for a test that woiild
prove to science whether or not, and to what
extent, a mineral-deficient diet affects
health.
   The results were startling. The twelve
convicts, the "Poison Squad," as the news
papers called them, were so affected by the
mineral-deficient diet that although they
knew pardon awaited them at the end of the
sixty-day period, they refused after only a
few days to go on with the experiment. Sev
eral of them tried to commit suicide. Two
showed symptoms of pellagra,and six others
actually developed the disease. There was
a great hubbub of excitement. Letters, tele
grams of protest, petitions were sent to the
prison officials.
[6]
To Be Healthy

  And then, as a final step in the experi
ment, the prisoners were put on a mineral-
complete ration, and were soon restored to
health.
   This experiment showed that without
doubt deficiency of any one of the sixteen
important mineral elements causes sickness
in some form. The problem of the diet spe
cialist is to find those foods that contain the
necessary minerals in the proper proportion.
These foods of high mineral content are
sure to be rich in the mysterious vitamins,
which are essential to health. And the min
eral-rich diet abounding in vitamins is sure
to give increased pep and vitality.
  The search of the scientists for foods with
these qualifications is not difficult. Dozens
of fruits and vegetables from Nature's boun
tiful storehouse contain these organic min
erals and vitamins. Their alkaline reaction
in the body offsets the acid by-products of
starch and protein digestion and prevents
acidosis.




                                           FT]
                            Here's How

         Whys and Wherefores

  "But why vegetable cocktails," you ask,
"when you can get the same benefits from
fresh vegetables and fruits?"
   But can you?
   Here are some of the answers to that ques
tion which will convince you of the value of
the vitamin-rich, mineral-rich juices con
tained in Health Cocktails:
  To begin with, you get the raw juice of
fruits and vegetables, full of living energy.
No matter how scientifically it is carried on,
cooking causes chemical changes that al
ways destroy some of this energy.
  Here is a little experiment that will show
you just how true this statement is. Put some
pineapple juice, squeezed out of a raw,fresh
pineapple, in a glass. Into it drop a bit of
hard-boiled egg white, which is almost one
hundred per cent protein. Now watch it.
What happens? You will see that some of
the egg will actually disappear in the solu
tion in a day or two—it has been digested!
But put some of the hard-boiled egg white
[8]
To Be Healthy

into pineapple juice that has heen heated. It
will take days and days for the same thing
to happen.
   This is because raw pineapple juice con
tains a marvelous enzyme, a digestive agent,
which helps to digest protein foods like nuts,
meat and egg white. But once the pineapple
juice is heated, the enzyme is made less ac
tive, and the digestive powers of the juice
are greatly lessened.
  And, too, the vitamins which abound in
raw fruit and vegetable juices of all sorts are
at least partly destroyed by cooking.
  That is one reason.       Here is another:
Health Cocktails, because of their concen
trated goodness, are the quickest means of
revitalizing the body.
  It is quite true that you can rechemicalize
and revitalize the body with whole fresh
fruits and vegetables. But you cannot do so
as quickly as you can with the juices. In
fact it would be almost impossible to eat
enough fruit or vegetables to get the min
erals and chemicals found in a quart of
juices. The hulk and roughage would be too
                                     [9]
                            Here's How

filling, too cumbersome for our digestive
and eliminative systems to handle.
   This principle has been recognized in
many countries. In France a one-day "juice
regimen" has been successfully used under
the name of "La Cure des Fruits." For one
day each week the diet is restricted to fruit
and vegetable juices. In that day enough
organic alkaline elements are absorbed by
the system to coimteract the effects of the
occasional indiscretions to which we are
prone—too much to eat at a banquet or too
rich refreshments at the Wednesday after
noon bridge. In Germany the one-day die
tetic holiday, the "Gesundheitstag," has
thousands of followers.
  The popularity of this diet in all coun
tries where it has been tried is undoubtedly
largely due to the fact that it is a diet with
out hunger. After following it, you feel
stimulated and strengthened rather than
weakened, as you do after the usual dieting.
What you get to eat—or, rather, drink—is
real nourishment of the richest, most sustain
ing kind.
[10]
To Be Healthy

  We live in a scientific age, an age that
stresses the value of insurance, that teaches
prevention as the better part of wisdom. This
one-day-health holiday,* that keeps the body
clean by eliminating accumulations of poi
son and waste and that builds it up with the
most concentrated and wholesome forms of
nourishment, is the best health insurance
you could have.
        Liberating the Minerals

  Here is another reason for the Health
Cocktail:
  Much of the nourishment in vegetables is
locked in the minute cells of the plant. In
this busy age few people take time or trouble
to masticate their food sufficiently to get all
the nourishment from it. The Health Cock
tail contains the concentrated nourishment
freed from the plant cells which the lazy in
dividual does not bother to get out.


  •"HEALTH DAY"—Bengamin Gayelord
Hauser—^Tempo Books, Inc., 580 Fifth Avenue,
New York.
                                         [11]
                            Here's How

  It was Goethe who called the blood stream
"that very special fluid." The juice of the
plant is to the plant what the blood stream is
to the body,so that when we drink vegetable
juices we really drink the life blood of the
plant. We get all its life and vitality in this
"very special fluid."
           Sensitive Stomachs
  Health Cocktails are a gift from heaven
for those who through years of wrong living
have weakened their stomachs.
  Plaintively these people say: "I know I
need the minerals and the vitamins of fresh
fruits and vegetables. But how can I get
them when their bulk and roughage are so
irritating to me?"
   These sufferers have always appealed to
my sympathy. Through their own indiscre
tions, usually, they have cut themselves oS^
from the greatest source of health and physi
cal well-being—fresh fruits and vegetables.
  It was their common complaint more than
anything else that was responsible for the
starting of the Health Cocktail therapy in
Carlsbad, the famous spa where thousands
[12]
To Be Healthy

of people from all parts of the world crowd
each year to seek relief from stomach and
intestinal troubles.
  Persons with stomach or duodenal ulcers
are caught in a vicious circle. They are in
desperate need of the minerals and vitamins
found in fruits and vegetables. But they
must forego this kind of food, because the
ulcerated condition of the digestive mem
branes is easily irritated by the scratchy,
rough bulk fibre in which fruit and vege
table juices are held. Therefore the so-called
"bland" diets are prescribed for them, made
up largely of non-irritating mushes and
breadstuffs. To be sure, these diets do not
cause irritation to the digestive membranes.
But patients held strictly to bland, non-irri
tating diets never find real health, because
the food they are allowed to eat fails to give
them the life-bringing minerals.
   Health Cocktails give to these sufferers
the minerals and chemicals which they so
greatly need, in a form that builds up the
blood without causing irritation to their im
paired digestive systems.
                                        [13]
                              Here's How

  With the appearance of raw-juice therapy,
physicians all over the country were eager
to try it in cases of ulceration. Results were
most satisfactory. Health Cocktails are abso
lute specifics in intestinal ills.
   For here are the precious vitamin and
mineral values of all the fruits and vege
tables—free from irritating fiber, wholly di
gestible, soft and soothing, providing nour
ishment that even an extensively ulcerated
case can pick up and use. When the blood
stream is replenished once more with vita
mins, minerals, healing elements and new
life, the patient gains enough strength to
heal the indolent ulcer.

                For Skinnies

   The food you eat must be broken down
into simpler chemical forms before it can
be transferred to the body cells. Most people
who fail to assimilate their food fail to di
gest it properly. Much of it passes away
from them before its value has been ex
tracted. Excessive thinness results.
  In malassimilatibn, whether in adult or
[14]
To Be Healthy

baby, the feeding of fresh vegetable juices
brings quick improvement. For these juices
are almost automatically assimilated, be
cause of their simple chemical forms.
  Thus men and women who have been tm-
derweight for years quickly gain needed
pounds. Those who have never been able to
gather strength to overcome some chronic
ailment feel new life surging in them after
they learn to drink Health Cocktails.
          For the Overweight

  Raw juice therapy is a wonderful help for
those who wish to reduce. Not only because
it cuts down actual food intake, hut because
it overcomes hidden hunger. I have found
that the insatiable food craving that some
people have is an imsatisfied hunger for
minerals and vitamins. Many concentrated
foods have been stripped of their essential
elements in processing and refining. When
people eat largely of these concentrated
foods and neglect the natural foods,the min
eral foods, they are starved, even though
they may he overweight. The body cells want
                                        [15]
                             Here's How

calcium or iron or vitamin C. Their message
to the stomach, brain and intestines is for
food—food—food. So the victim eats and
eats, hut never satisfies the hunger that calls
within him. He is starved for minerals.
  For convenience this starvation is called
hidden hunger. Because we cannot tell ex
actly which mineral or vitamin is needed we
have devised the hidden himger cocktail.
One white vegetable such as parsnips, one
yellow—earrots; one green such as spinach
and one red—beets; the juice of these four
vegetables,representing all the minerals and
elements the body requires, is mixed in
equal proportions, and we are enabled to
drink a hearty toast to the appeasement of
the ogre that won't he satisfied—hidden
hunger.

            Tooth Problems

  Nature provided us with teeth for a very
definite purpose—to grind and crush foods
so that the digestive juices could get into
them and do their work. Advancing years,
unnecessary tooth pulling and the soft foods
[16]
To Be Healthy

of civilization which need little chewing
have given many of us a quite inadequate
dental equipment. Therefore many people
show symptoms of indigestion, distress, gas
formation, simply because the food has not
been properly masticated and mixed with
the digestive juices. For those who have lost
their teeth or who have makeshift repairs in
their mouths, Health Cocktails are a boon.
Here at last is a food they can digest and
make use of.

   Grandmothers and Grandfathers

  Just as the aged should be spared from
inclement weather, from hard work, from
too much activity, so their digestive systems
should be spared the necessity of coping
with the digestive problems that the younger
stomach is expected to solve.
  We feed our babies carefully, methodi
cally. We weigh their food, we modify it,
we take special pains in feeding them. We
might well give this same courtesy and care
to our elders, who have made our lives pos
sible. Were we to prepare grandmother's
                                      [17]
                            Here's How

and grandfather's food with the same care
we give to little Johnny's, we might add
precious years to their lives.
  Health Cocktails provide food in such
forms that the delicate aging digestive or
gans can easily extract nourishment from it;
and they tempt the indifferent appetite of
old age. Added food value means added
years for the aged.
            For the Children

  There is no denying that most youngsters
do not like vegetables. Sometimes the vege
tables have no taste, are not properly cooked.
In that case you cannot blame the yoimg-
sters. Sometimes boys and girls have such
an abnormal craving for starches and sweets
that their normal taste for salads and vege
tables is spoiled.
   Raw juice therapy comes to the rescue of
the mother confronted with these vegetable
dislikes on the part of the child. You can
now extract any of the fresh vegetable juices
—^the richest source,of minerals—and for
taste you can mix them with the youngster's
[18]
 To Be Healthy

favorite fresh fruit juice. Most of them like
orange juice, grapefruit juice, apple juice,
imsweetened pineapple juice and grape
juice. These are splendid "mixers" for the
vegetable juices. So far I have not found
one youngster who did not like the cocktail
made with spinach, parsley and orange
juice.
   Fimdamentally these fruit juices are
about the same. So mix the vegetable juices
with any of the above fruit juices in equal
parts.
   Greet your boys and girls with one of
these vital cocktails when they come home
from school. Give your undernourished
youngsters two or three glassfuls of this vital
juice and almost instantly they wiU respond
with increased strength and vitality.
         Psychological Appeal

  And now we come to the last—and in
some ways the most important—reason for
the Health Cocktail.
 That is its appeal to the palate, to the eye
—aU the things that make it psychologically
                                        [19]
                            Here's How

so much more interesting than the vegetables
from which it is derived.
  It is the thing that makes little Johnny,
for instance, smack his lips after a glass of
Iron Cocktail when he turns away with real
loathing from a mess of boiled spinach pre
scribed by the doctor because he is anemic.
It is the thing that makes grown-ups, as well
as children, ask for more.
  When it comes to the eye appeal, you can
do all sorts of things to produce attractive
colors in your Health Cocktails. A little
spinach juice gives a pleasing green color;
a little beet juice makes an attractive red.
And various flavors may be just as easily
achieved. Lemon juice,a bit of tomato juice,
a little finely chopped watercress, will give
you individual taste nuances. In preparing
Health Cocktails the housewife has a real
opportunity to exercise any artistry and
originality she may possess—talents that are
stunted by a blind following of the cook book
or strict conformity to family food tradi
tions.
  It is easy,in speaking of Health Cocktails,
[20]
To Be Healthy

to become almost too enthusiastic about
them. For it must be remembered that fruit
and vegetable juices cannot take the place of
salads and cooked vegetables. The bulk and
roughage of fruits and vegetables are very
important for the average person; they keep
the muscles of the intestines strong and in
good working condition.
  But Health Cocktails become our natural
medicines and give us the vital elements in
concentrated form when for some reason our
digestions are not fitted to handle bulk and
roughage. They are also valuable in counter
acting the effects of the mass of highly re
fined foods and complicated mixtures with
which we load our digestive systems.
  Their uses may vary in extent. The suf
ferer from stomach ulcers, for example,
must depend on them entirely for minerals,
chemicals and vitamins. The nervous, dys
peptic housewife who is constantly tired and
who looks fagged and worn, can use them
advantageously in a one-day health holiday.
All of us who are in normal health can vary
our menus and add much to the joy of eating
                                       [21]
                            Here's How

by partaking of a sparkling, colorful and
delicious Health Cocktail before or between
meals.
  There is really no limit to what you can
do with them. The next time you make cream
soup,I suggest that you make it in this way:
Heat the milk as usual and after you have
turned off the flame add a cup of fresh
spinach juice—raw spinach, of course, to he
used in its making. This produces a beauti
ful pastel green color. Add a hit of Meatless
Bouillon and, if you like, a hit of whipped
cream on top.
  All cream soups can he made in this way.
Besides cream of spinach soup you may try
cream of beet soup or cream of carrot soup.
And here is a new idea—cream of pea-pod
soup. All of them can be made in a jiffy.
  In all cooking remember not to add salt
while the food is on the fire. It toughens the
food and takes twice as much time to cook.
Add salt only after the flame has been turned
off. This brings out the natural flavor of the
food; and then you can add a bit of vege-

[22]




                                                                 i
                                                 ■ f■   tit*,h
To Be Healthy

table salt (Nu-Vege-Sal) which gives addi
tional flavour and savour.
   And now I pass on to you my best formu
las to start you along the Trail of the Cock
tail Shaker. Once you have gone a little
way, you will find exciting byways of your
own to follow.

         The Selection of Foods

  Choose solid, heavy fruits and vegetables.
The heavier they are for their size, the more
juice they contain.
  Select young, tender, fresh vegetables,
with leaves still green and crisp. The deep
orange-colored California carrots make the
best juice.
   Smooth, small-leafed spinach is the ten-
derest and best flavored.
   Heavy, crisp, green-leafed celery makes
the richest juice.
   Use the leaves and roots of vegetables.
They are rich in minerals. They may be
made into separate drinks or mixed. Carrot
tops are very rich in minerals, making a
strong medicine, to be used sparingly.
                                       [23]
                            Here's How

    Watercress, rich in sulphur, should also
 be used in small portions.
    Remember, in choosing vegetables for
 your Health Cocktails, that their juices are
 all used raw. Cooking spoils their tonic
 value. Hence the vegetables must all be
fresh and in good condition.
         Preparation of Vegetables

   Vegetables are quickly and safely cleaned
by this simple method:
   Put a handful of ordinary salt in a dish-
pan of cold water and let the vegetables
stand, uncut, in it for twenty minutes. Re
move any insects. The few drops of lemon
juice you always have in your fruit cup will
destroy any germs. Rinse, cut out any
spoiled portions. Use the whole vegetable.
Leaves, skin and roots contain valuable min
erals.
   Be sure not to cut the vegetables before
cleaning, because salt water would leech out
the mineral elements in them.
   After washing, cut the vegetables with
long, tough Strings, such as celery, beet
[24]
To Be Healthy

stems, rhubarb and peapods, into one and
one-half inch pieces.
  Either quarter or cut into lengthwise sec
tions to fit behind the teeth of the grinding
shaft all root or solid fruits or vegetables,
such as beets, carrots, cucumbers, apples,
pineapples, etc.
  Fine fiber foods, sucb as carrots, onions,
apples,radishes,and cucumbers, may be put
through the extractor twice.
  For those of you with intestinal ills or in
weakened condition an extra cleansing pre
caution is worth while. For as long as our
farmers do not know how to chemicalize
their soil they will have difficulties with all
kinds of pests. Unfortunately they now use
various kinds of sprays which can be harm
ful to those in a weakened condition. So if
you are put on a vegetable diet you might
take advantage of the following formula I
use:



        Removing Poison Sprays

   Buy at your druggist's one oxmce of chem
ically pure hydrochloric acid. Mix this thor-
                                        [25]
                           Here's How

oughly with three quarts of water. This is
approximately a one per cent solution. The
spray-remover is kept in an earthenware
crock. Vegetables used are first washed in
the ordinary manner, then placed for five
minutes in the spray-remover, removed and
rinsed in water again. The spray-remover
solution can be used by the average family
of five for about a week. Should a little of
the hydrochloric acid remain on the vege
tables it will do no harm. In this weak solu
tion it is practically the same as is normally
present in the stomach.




[26]
To Be Healthy


     RULES FOR MAKING
        PERFECT JUICES
1. There are several machines on the market for
   extracting juices from vegetables. I recom
   mend the use of the Health-Mine Juice Ex
   tractor which was designed especially for me.
   This machine is by far the easiest and simplest
   to use. The Health-Mine Juice Extractor may
   be obtained at Health Food Stores or hard
   ware stores or direct from the manufacturers,
   Modern Health Products Supply Co., 1428 N.
   Twenty Fourth St., Milwaukee, Wis.
2. Vegetables must be carefully cleaned for mak
   ing juices. Sick people should wash their
   vegetables in a weak hydrochloric acid solu
   tion, as given on page 25.
.3. Vegetables such as celery and rhubarb should
    be cut in two-inch pieces to prevent stringing.
4. When leaves such as spinach, lettuce or dande
   lion are used, it is wise to mix in some of the
   stems and if possible some of the roots.
5. All vegetable juices perish quickly and lose
   their color at once. To prevent this have a
                                            [27]
                                     Here's How


          bit of lemon or grapefruit juice in the cup
          into which juice flows. Carrots taste better
          with orange juice.
       6. Raw vegetable juices are splendid medicines
          and can be taken indefinitely. However, best
          results are obtained by the regular use of from
          one and a half cups to not more than three
          cups a day. Vegetable juices are best fresh
          but will keep in a cool place for twenty-four
          hours.




yi;'




       [281
  RECIPES

    AND

INSTRUCTIONS




       ■ j.,
To Be Healthy

             CELERY COCKTAIL

INGREDIENTS

    Fresh, Crisp Celery
    Lemon Juice

METHOD
  Wash celery. Cut stalks into two-inch pieces
and put through the Health-Mine. Have the juice
of half a lemon in the cup into which the celery
juice flows. This adds tempting flavor and pre
serves the clear, fresh color of this sparkling
cocktail.
   (It is best not to use too many of the celery
leaves, as they make the juice too bitter.)
   One and a half cups of this juice is a good
daily ration for one person. This cup and a half
is divided into three cocktails—preferably to be
taken between meals and before retiring.
  The Celery Cocktail should be made fresh
every day.

This Celery Cocktail is a specific against:
     Indigestion
     Sour Stomach

     All forms of Rheumatism

                                           [31]
                                  Here's How


                IRON COCKTAIL

INGREDIENTS

        Crisp, Dark Green Spinach
        Fresh Parsley
        Orange Juice for Flavor

METHOD
  Put well washed spinach and parsley through
the Health-Mine. Two large handfuls of spinach,
a small handful of parsley, is the best propor.
tion.
  This juice, rich in iron and copper, makes a
potent body-huilding tonic but is not pleasant
to the taste. For this reason it is mixed with
orange juice—about half and half.
  Three cups a day of this spinach, parsley and
orange juice makes a splendid cocktail and is
easily taken by those who "hate spinach."

This Iron Cocktail is a specific in all forms of
    anemia and is an all-round building tonic.




[32]
To Be Healthy


               CARROT COCKTAIL

INGREDIENTS

     Golden Carrots

     Orange Juice

METHOD
  Scrub carrots until their skin glows and
sparkles. Cut into vertical strips about one half
inch wide and put through the Health-Mine.
  (If you prefer you may shred the carrots on
a medium sized shredder and then put them
through the Health-Mine.)
  This juice deteriorates very easily and loses its
golden color. For this reason you must have
some orange juice in the cup into which the
juice flows.
  Since carrots are quite dry and do not give
much juice you may put them twice through the
Health-Mine.
  Mix the carrot juice with the orange juice in
equal proportions.

This Carrot Cocktail, if faithfully imbibed, is
     warranted to produce that schoolgirl com
     plexion.



                                            [33]
                               Here's How


           CABBAGE COCKTAIL

INGREDIENTS

     Fresh Young Cabbage (The younger the
       cabbage, the better the juice!)
     Lemon Juice
     Grapefruit Juice for Palatability

METHOD
  Cut fresh cabbage into slices and put through
the Health-Mine.
  To keep the cocktail crystal clear put a bit of
lemon juice in the cup into which the cabbage
juice flows.
  In this form it is a vital reducing drink. To
make it more palatable, combine two-thirds cab
bage juice and one-third grapefruit juice.
  Three cups of this cocktail is all that is needed
in one day. It can be taken before meals as an
appetizer or between meals.

This Cabbage Cocktail contains: Chlorine, Iron
     and Magnesium.
  It is splendid for reducing the waistline and
for correcting faulty elimination.



[34]
To Be Healthy


        RED CABBAGE COCKTAIL

INGREDIENTS

     Fresh Red Cabbage
     Unsweetened Pineapple Juice

METHOD
  Cut the red cabbage, nicely cleaned, into slices
and put tbrougb the Health-Mine. The juice flows
easily and the color is an attractive vermilion. To
preserve this color and to make a most appe
tizing combination, add unsweetened pineapple
juice, either fresh or canned.
  Juice from the red cabbage, like that from the
white, is a good reducing drink. But you must
not spoil the combination by using more pine
apple juice than cabbage juice. Two-thirds of
red cabbage juice and one-third of pineapple
juice is a most delicious combination.

This Red Cabbage Cocktail is a specific reducing
    cocktail. It may be served as an appetizer
    before meals or at any time between meals.




                                            [35]
                              Here's How


            CUCUMBER COCKTAIL

INGREDIENTS

    Young Cucumbers
    Grapefruit Juice

METHOD
  Cut unpeeled cucumbers into slices and put
them through the Health-Mine. Since cucumbers
are about 70^ "live water" you will get a lot
of juice.
  Grapefruit juice added to the cucumber juice
sets the delicate color and improves the flavor.
Equal amounts make the finest taste.
  Because cucumbers are a natural diuretic kid
ney flush, not more than one and one-half cups
should he taken daily.
  Cucumber juice deteriorates very quickly so
it should immediately he put into the refrigerator.
This Cucumber Cocktail is a specific for the sys
    tem, especially for the kidneys. Puffs under
    the eyes have been known to disappear after
     the use of this natural medicine.




[36]
To Be Healthy


              BEET COCKTAIL

INGREDIENTS

    Young Tender Beet Roots
    A Few Young Leaves
    Pineapple Juice

METHOD
  Cut up the beets and leaves and put them
through the Health-Mine. A beautiful ruby-tinted
"vegetable wine" will flow into your cup.
  To retain the color and to make the cocktail
more tasty, you may add fresh or canned pine
apple juice (unsweetened). Half and half makes
the right combination.
  This cocktail is highly alkaline. It has high
appetite appeal, because of its flavor and because
of its wine-like hue. It makes a splendid change
among the health cocktails.

This Beet Cocktail is a specific for driving out
    acids and is a general building tonic.




                                           [37]
                              Here's How


               RADISH COCKTAIL

INGREDIENTS

     Radishes—White, Red, or (still better) the
       Large black Variety
     Lemon Juice

METHOD
  Cut the radishes into small pieces and put
through the Health-Mine. The younger they are
the better they are, for the more juice they will
yield. So choose them young and fresh.
  The color of the cocktail depends on the variety
of radish you use. The small red ones make a
very attractive cocktail. Be sure to have some
lemon juice in the cup into which the radish
juice flows.
  This wholesome juice is rich in sulphur and is
a rather strong medicine. Therefore not more
than one cupful a day two or three times a week
should be taken.
  To tickle the palate with radish juice mix it
with grapefruit juice—^half and half.

This Radish Cocktail, because of its sulphur, is a
    potent tonic and a powerful cleanser for the
    gall bladder.


[38]
To Be Healthy


        WATERCRESS COCKTAIL

INGREDIENTS

    Crisp Watercress
    Fresh Parsley or Spinach
    Orange Juice

METHOD
  Watercress is rich in mustard oil, so it is better
to mix it vdth some other milder green, such as
parsley or spinach.
  Put equal parts of the watercress and either
parsley or spinach through the Health-Mine.
There will be plenty of dark green juice, rich
in minerals and vitamins.
  To give it an appealing taste add some orange
juice. Equal amounts are best.
  This combination is a powerful cleanser and
must be taken in small amounts. Two cocktails
a day of one-half cup each are all that should
be taken.


This Watercress Cocktail is a specific for blood
    purification and because of its high alkaline
    content it helps drive out rheumatic poisons.



                                             [39]
                             Here's How


            COCKTAIL MIXTE

INGREDIENTS

    Cabbage, Crisp and Fresh
    Celery, Ditto
    Green Pepper, Sound and Firm
    Lemon or Grapefruit Juice

METHOD
  Put eqpial parts of cabbage and celery, with a
bit of green pepper for flavor, through the
Health-Mine.
   This makes a very well balanced mixture which
is rich in iron, sodium and sulphur.
   But for a drink that is utterly delicious, as
well as wholesome, add a bit of lemon or grape
fruit juice.

This Cocktail can be taken three times a day
    (one-half cup each time), preferably be
    tween meals.




[40]


                        1
                                                    'm



To Be Healthy


            SPRING COCKTAIL

INGREDIENTS

    Tender Rhubarb

    Fresh Strawberries

    A Little Honey

METHOD
  The fresh, tender stalks of rhubarb contain
Nature's natural laxative elements. Fresh straw
berries are potent in cleansing and beautifying
elements.
  Equal parts of tender rhubarb and fresh straw
berries put through the Health-Mine make a rose-
colored juice as beautiful as it is wholesome.
  To prevent stringing, cut rhuharb stalks in
two-inch pieces.
  A little honey to sweeten the cocktail makes
this juice even more delicious.
  Two cupfuls a day is enough.

This Cocktail, especially in the springtime, is a
     powerful drink to purify the system and
    clean up a muddy complexion.




                                          [41]
                                  Here's How


         DE-TOXICANT COCKTAIL

INGREDIENTS

     Garlic, About Three Cloves*
     Parsley, a Large Handful
     Green Pepper, Just a Bit

METHOD
   Garlic is Nature's most powerful gennicidal
herb. Unfortunately its odor is so strong that
most people never use it. This Health Cocktail
offers a new and pleasant way of taking garlic
without advertising the fact to the world.
  Put all the ingredients through the Health-
Mine. The parsley juice is rich in copper and
iron and helps to destroy the strong odor of
garlic.
  The organic sulphur in garlic is a powerful
cleanser for the entire intestinal tract.
  This De-Toxicant Cocktail can he taken two
or three times a week, preferably before retiring.
It is especially good for those suffering from
excessive gas.

  *If fresh garlic is unobtainable add one-quarter tea-
spoonful of Santay Garlic Powder to the Parsley Juice.



[42]
To Be Healthy


          ENDOCRINE COCKTAIL

INGREDIENTS

     Egg Yolks, One Tablespoonful
     Yellow Olive Oil, One Quarter Teaspoonful
     Sea Greens, One Quarter Teaspoonful
     Juice of Two Oranges

METHOD
  Mix the egg yolks, olive oil. Sea Greens and
Orange Juice and beat until foamy.
  A bit of orange peel,shredded very fine,should
top this cocktail.
  The nerve and glandular oils with the Sea
Greens supply the proper nourishment for the
glands.
  Orange peel, finely shredded, is a splendid
means of providing the sunshine vitamin D.
  Not more than one of these cocktails should
be taken every day.




                                         [43]




                                                   M
                                       Here's How

r'
rV 1
                DANDELION COCKTAIL

       INGREDIENTS

            Dandelion Leaves

            Parsley or Green Onions
            Lemon or Grapefruit Juice

       METHOD
           Dandelions are rich in potassium, iron and
       other alkaline elements, especially if you get the
       wild variety. Since these greens are very bitter
       it is best to mix them with parsley or green onions.
           Use equal amounts. Put them through the
       Health-Mine to make a rich dark green juice.
           Add grapefruit juice or lemon juice to taste,
       for the sake of palatability.
           Not more than two cupfuls a day of this potent
       juice should be taken.

       This Dandelion Cocktail is beneficial to those
            who are sluggish and tired.




       [44]
To Be Healthy


        ANTI-COLD COCKTAILS

1. Wash a juicy grapefruit and cut into slices.
Put peeling, seeds and all through the Health-
Mine.
  This makes a strong, rather hitter juice which
has specific properties for breaking up colds.
  For flavor, add some honey.
  Drink a glassful of this juice at least three
times a day, preferably in the morning, at noon
and before retiring.

2. Cut up two large, juicy oranges, peeling and
all, and put through the Health-Mine.
  This orange juice is rich in Vitamin C and the
peeling is saturated with the sunshine Vitamin D,
a powerful factor in breaking up colds.
  For best results this cocktail should be taken
about every two hours.




                                          [45]
                                       Here's How


                      PARTY COCKTAIL

            INGREDIENTS

               Grapefruit Juice
               Italian Celery (Also Called Fenuchi or
                 Anise)

            METHOD
           You may use fresh or canned grapefruit juice.
        To one cupful add one tablespoonful of the fresh
        juice extracted from the Italian celery.
          This makes a delicious and interesting drink
        that will make your guests think you are serving
        a French ahsinthe.
          Unsweetened pineapple juice may be used in
        place of the grapefruit juice. This combination
        is piquant and tempting.
           If you must put a "stick" in this cocktail, let
        your conscience be your guide.

        This Party Cocktail is a specific against gloom
            and depression.




       [46]




i'v . I .
To Be Healthy


   GLORIHED TOMATO COCKTAILS
  Tomato juice has so many good properties by
itself that it has become, within a few years,
America's most popular vegetable drink.
  A good brand of canned tomato juice is almost
as good as the fresh juice. It has the big advan
tage of being inexpensive at all seasons and of
being ever ready to use.
  You can serve tomato juice in many tempting
ways. Here is a new one: Add celery juice—
about equal proportions of the two give the best
drink. This makes a remarkable drink with lots
of tang. Add a dash of Himgarian spice* and
your cocktail will be the hit of the party.

           The Lazy Ann Cocktail
   This cocktail can be made in a jiffy. Fresh
cabbage juice is added to tomato juice. Two-
thirds tomato juice to one-third cabbage juice
gives a tempting result. And here is the Lazy
Ann way: Mix two-thirds tomato juice and one-
third sauerkraut juice. This is a refreshing cock
tail, mixed in a second, and it helps to reduce
bulging waistlines.
  *Nu-Spice (Hungarian style), Nu-Vege-Sal, Santay
Garlic Powder, Meatless Bouillon and other important
accessory foods may be obtained at your health food
store or direct from the manufacturers. Modern Health
Products, Inc., 1428 North 24th Street, Milwaukee, Wis
consin.

                                               [47]
                                Here's Hoiv


    GLORIFIED POTASSIUM BROTH

INGREDIENTS
     Celery, One Bunch
     Carrots, One Bunch
     Spinach, a Handful
     Parsley, a Pinch
     Vegetable Salt, One Teaspoonful or Meat
       less Bouillon, One Tablespoonful
METHOD
  Everyone knows and likes my Potassium Broth.
Here is a way of adding more flavour and savour:
  Cut the vegetables fine or put them through an
ordinary chopper. When finely shredded or cut
there should be about three cups of celery, three
of carrots and one of spinach. Our pinch of
parsley should yield about a qpiarter cup. Add two
quarts of water and cook from twenty to thirty
minutes—not more. After the flame has been
turned out add one level teaspoonful of vegetable
salt (Nu-Vege-Sal) or, if you like a meat-like
flavor, add a tablespoonful of Meatless Bouillon.
To further vitalize and glorify this alkaline broth,
you may add (after the flame has been turned
off) one cup of your favorite vegetable juice,
such as fresh or canned tomato juice, celery juice,
or pea-pod juice. This broth may be served hot
or it may be chilled and served as an appetizer.
[48]
YOUR OWN RECIPES




                      '>1
                      .Vffl
                    'N

                   "A,i|£
                      w


                    • ''K
         YOUR OWN RECIPES



fiv ;
Kfv-,
\v,:..
YOUR OWN RECIPES
      YOUR OWN RECIPES




. ■
YOUR OWN RECIPES




                   ■m




                    /Vi
       YOUR OWN RECIPES



^ir-
 ■
I




                          ■
    YOUR OWN RECIPES




                       m
                       %
                       "A
                       j■


                            i




S
         YOUR OWN RECIPES




[I"


 I'V ,
Books By Bengamin Gayelord Hauser




          FOOD SCIENCE

            AND HEALTH

T)RESENTS in simple language the fas-
   cinating facts about practical food sci
ence as it may be used in your dady life for
the promotion of better health and greater
efficiency. This volume contains in detailed
form the famous Hauser Eliminative Feed
ing System. This is not a "diet" but a seven
day feeding system during which time the
entire system is flushed and re-chemicalized
by eating an abundance of the best foods on
earth.    The Eliminative Feeding System
completely antiquates the many old fash
ioned freak diets and dangerous fasts and
introduces a new era of feeding based on
sound scientific facts, proven practical and
enthusiastically endorsed by thousands of
users throughout the world. $2,00.


Tempo Books, Inc., • 580 Fifth Ave., New York, N. Y.
Books By Bengamin Gayelord Hauser




           HARMONIZED

       FOOD SELECTION


        subject of food chemistry is given
    very little thought by the average indi
vidual and yet the foods we eat and the com
binations in which we eat them have every
thing in the world to do with our daily
health and well being. This volume brings
to you vital knowledge which you may use
to re-build your body and supply to your
muscles, bones, nervous and glandular sys
tem, those foods which they require for
more efficient functioning. Once you have
read this book and are familiar with the
principles presented therein, you will be
able to balance your own meals and eat for
health in a sane and delightful manner with
out the fear of becoming a "diet crank."
$2.00.



Tempo Books, Inc., • 580 Fifth Ave., New York, N. Y.
Books By Bengamin Gayelord Hauser




                    NEW

      HEALTH COOKERY

O IMPLY to label a recipe healthful was
^ not enough for Bengamin Gayelord
Hauser and his staff of nutritionists. They
insisted that each recipe pass a double test
—it must he delicious to taste as well as
healthful. The result is an amazing collec
tion of the most delightful things to eat—
and all of them made without such harmful
ingredients as denatured flours and sugar,
vinegar and animal fats. None of the joy
of eating is lost in these splendid recipes.
New ways of preparing vegetables so they
retain all their healthful qualities and gar-
den-fresh color. New ideas for salads, a
whole section devoted to meat substitutes
and even meats themselves, soups and
desserts—all are found in this new health
cookery. $2.00.


Tempo Books, Inc., • 580 Fifth Ave., New York, N. Y.
Books By Bengamin Gayelord Hauser




             TYPES AND

         TEMPERAMENTS

T^ECENT revolutionary discoveries have
      made possible the placing of each
individual into one of five classifications.
Your physical appearance, certain disease
tendencies and traits of character are con
trolled by your chemical make-up. Knowl
edge of your particular chemical type will
aid you in selecting those foods which are
best for you and will teach you many things
about yourself which you did not know be
fore. This book, containing 23 illustra
tions, will teach you how to determine your
own type and to read members of your
family and your friends. $2.00.




Tempo Books, Inc., • 580 Fifth Ave., New York, N. Y.
            DICTIONARY
               OF FOODS

     By Bengamin Gayelord Mauser
              AND Ragnar Berg


"DAGNAR BERG, Germany's greatest
     food scientist, has collaborated with
Bengamin Gayelord Mauser in the prepara
tion of this epoch-making book. The world's
first Dictionary of Foods is the result of
years of labor, laboratory tests, and ex
perimentation by these two most famous
living food scientists. As a result you may
now turn to this dictionary and in a few
seconds have at your fingertips the vital
facts about any particular article of diet:
including its derivation, its chemical make
up, its vitamine content, in what conditions
it is particularly valuable, and in which way
it should be cooked and eaten in order to
derive the greatest benefit. $1.50.


 Tempo Books, Inc., • 580 Fifth Ave., New York, N. Y.
 Books By Bengamin Gayelord Hauser




          CHILD FEEDING
               Written for Mothers

'T^HE modern mother starts feeding her
    child at the time of conception. In
guarding her own health and diet during
pregnancy she can give her baby a strong
healthy body. In this book, Bengamin
Gayelord Hauser has released a wealth of
knowledge on the subject of Child Feeding
through the various stages of infancy, child
hood and adolescence. If his methods are
followed, a child has a far greater chance
of growing into splendid manhood or
womanhood. $2.50.




Tempo Books, Inc., • 580 Fifth Ave., New York, N. Y.
Books By Bengamin Gayelord Hauser




        KEENER VISION

     WITHOUT GLASSES

    OU don't have to wear glasses! Revo
    lutionary discoveries in the past decade
have made it possible for thousands to
discard unsightly spectacles—eye crutches!
In this volume, Bengamin Gayelord Hauser
presents original aids for the perfection of
defective vision. His system includes the
use of the famous "Eye Gymnastiques,"
and a splendid diet which will aid in regain
ing and retaining keener vision. A few
minutes a day are all that are required and
results are almost immediate. Fully Illus
trated. $2.50.




Tempo Books, Inc., • 580 Fifth Ave., New Yobk, N. Y.
                     Books By Bengamin Gayelord Hauser




                                                 HEALTH DAY
                                                      (GESUNDHEITSTAG)



                     nPHIS sensational one-day-a-week health
                         holiday has taken Europe hy storm. In
                     presenting "Health Day" to America, Ben
                     gamin Gayelord Hauser introduces an
                     entirely new and novel idea for the preser
                     vation of your health and vitality. One day
                     a week is all that is required—one day in
                     which to "revitalize," "re-chemicalize," and
                    "re-charge"—one day during which time
                    you will eat and drink only those foods
                     which will work miracles in a tired and
                    toxic body. $1.00.




                    Tempo Books, Inc., • 580 Fifth Ave., New York, N. Y.


                                                                                  Printed in U. S. A.




ifriiiirVimiiirm iifir I -fiTa unt'ii 'i —tT-i'i i   -'n nin-*—^''-tii'ii -   ■
^ '-f< t it*-' lifiii iiitiar'i rtlifi"'! i'- -   ^ii^tIi rffftfVi' i'lf-Ti *l'^"-^Tti
  tea Mrs. Augustus Eddy and Mrs. Fowler
  McCormlck gave last week at the Casino
  for Dr. Hauser and Miss Elizabeth Arden,

   Dr. Hauser, as you know, is the expon
 ent of the "eat and grow beautiful" theory,
 so it wasn't hard for Mrs. Mitchell and
 Mrs. Wheeler to Interest their friends in
 hearing what he had to say.

   Such Lake Forest beauties as Mrs. Clif
 ford Rodman and Mrs. Laurance Armour
 were fascinated by the possibilities of
 spinach cockialls.




 Mrs. AitAioi i{. in a
       necked dre.vs of black wool; Mrs.
       Mitchell, In a short coat of checked
tweed, and Mrs. Wheeler, In tweeds, had
all driven In from Lake Forest In the rain
 without losing any of their custonmi-y
crlspness.


  Under her slormcoat Mrs. Fowler Mc
Cormlck was wearing a brown print drc.ss.
Nobody was more surprised or Interested
than she to hear that the oil of an orange
or lemon peel Is concentrated sunshine
and Just as good a Winter pickup as cod-
liver oil.


  Munching shredded cabbage sprinkled
with grapefruit juice—and liking It—were
Mrs. Farwell Winston, Mrs. Edward Harris
Brewer, Mj\s. Byron Harvey, Sr., Mrs.
Charles Swift, Mrs. Donald Ryerson, Mrs.
Walter Brewster and the chic and wil
lowy Eleanor Hoi den, who Is happily
awaiting the arrival of her good friend,
Edith Cimnntngs Munson, from Alberta.
                                     Science Now Says..

                                     "^"^DRINK
                                                Your
                                     Vegetablesif
   Doftors now accept the fart that many physical disordeis such as
   Rheumatism, Arthritis, {iomtipation, (iolds. Anemia, Kidney and Gall
   Bladder trouble and many ;;!andular disturhanccs are directly caused
   by a deficiency of vital mineral salts and vitamines in the daily diet.
    Raw vegetable juices are a ridi srorehonse of these vital mineral salts
   and alkalinizinp elements which the body requires. Instead of eating
    pecks of spinach or imnches of celery, yon can now extract the "blood
   of the plant" with the aid of tlie new "Health Mine" vegetable juice
   extractor.

   The new .science of raw juice therapy (explained in this book) offers
   all the benefits of fresh vegetables without any of the drawbacks.
   The Health Mine Juice Extractor developed exclusively for        purpose,
   is simple, compact, easy to operate and keep clean and EFFICIENT'
   Just turn the handle and out comes a (low of delicious, mineral-rich'
    health-bearing juice.
   If your Health Food Store or Hardware Store -does not have this newest
   aid to family health, write directly to the Mannfactniers. The "Healtli
   Mine," complete with instruction book containing recipes for flelicinns
   "Health Cocktaifs" will i)e sent to yon postpaid for S4.50.

    MODERN HEALTH PRODUCTS SUPPLY CO.
                            1428 North 24th Street
                       MILWAUKEE. WISCONSIN


COPYR'®"'*'      TEMPO BOOKS. INC.                             printer
