     VI


           Bon VivanBs CompfiniorLs
                           or




 wow TO MIX
 DRINKS

             L
    . PROFESSOK
   Jerry T*^OIVlAS
'Jornierlif Principfil Barfender
  of the Metropoliton Hotel of^
 New York,and at the Planters
 House of Saint Louis,




           ddifetL^
with an Introduction,
              bij
f
The Bofo Vivafot's CcmtpaDtOfO
                     or



HOW TO MIX DRINKS
                     by
       Professor Jerry Thomas
  Another turn of the wheel of fate brings
to an end what once more in the exhilirat-
ing presence of a "Blue Blazer" or once
again immersed in romantic nostalgia over
an "Orange Blossom" we now charitably
call "a noble experiment". Let the dead
bury the dead! Let the family bathtub re
turn again to its humble service of housing
the family coal! Let the furtive engulfings
of "unspeakable concoctions prepared by
frowsy gorillas lounging behind the bars of
dingy basement speakeasies, slashing luke
warm ginger ale into dirty glasses half-filled
with raw alcohol "be forever forgotten!"
  We are entering upon a mellower and a
more leisured age. With the coming of de
cent ingredients a cry goes up for the grand
old recipes of the royal drink-concocters of
happict days.
  Some of us, but not many, still can tell
our grandchildren of the time we sipped a
"Tom and Jerry" at the old Metropolitan
in New York when Jerry Thomas was the
Principal Bartender there. The oldest living
inhabitant may even dimly recall burying
his nose in one of the Professor's Juleps in
the Planters' House in St. Louis. But there
is glory enough for all. The book in which
the Old Master confined so many of his                          .T

'' rets THE BON VIVANTS' COMPAN                               % -O,



ION or HOW TO MIX DRINKS, with all
of its 300 or more precious recipes is yours
to own and to use.               ■ j j-
   Follow carefully those time-tried direc
tions and drink a toast to the Prince of         ,
                                                     A,   .
                                                               • .■
                                                                 .
                                                                      •■i- 1
                                                                      '-M'
Mixers whose genial "What will it be,
gentlemen?" was an invitation to remember
and to cherish.
I




               . .. • VSkif-WiS



    , J,   .
,t)G*«   m .. - • ■ -••- ■ ■' '• .   ■■ II a ■■■ ■ ■ I • 11 -rt   ii'M I i-i T-
     THE BON VIVANT'S COMPANION

               ...OR..,




         How to Mix Drinks




                             VANILLA
                            CORDIAL




                          MARASCHIUO




i:
    »   I


r
1
                                               i
                                                 i




K\'r''' .




            Professor Thomas Preparing a Blue Blazer
THE BON VIVANT'S COMPANION




HOW TO MIX DRINKS
                        •••    •••




       PROFESSOR JERRY THOMAS
  Formerly Principal Bartender at the MetropolitaJi Hotels
     New York, and at the Planters' House, St. Louis


             Edited, with an Introduction, by

               HERBERT ASBURY




GROSSET & DUNLAP : PUBLISHERS : NEW YORK
            Copyright ig27, 1928
          by Alfred A. Knopf, Inc.

            ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
INCLUDING THE RIGHT TO REPRODUCE THIS BOOK
      OR PARTS THEREOF IN ANY FORM



     FIRST AND SECOND PRINTINGS
          BEFORE PUBLICATION
       PUBLISHED OCTOBER) I928
  THIRD PRINTING NOVEMBER, 1928
  FOURTH PRINTING DECEMBER, 1928
     FIFTH PRINTING MARCH, 19^9
    SIXTH PRINTING JANUARY, I93<^
  SEVENTH PRINTING JANUARY, 1934




      Manufactured in the United States of America
      To

Jean and Herbert
    Gorman
                 Contents

INTRODUCTION                           XV

PREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION         xlvii

PUNCH                                   I

PREPARED       PUNCH   AND   PUNCH

      ESSENCES                         44

COCKTAILS                              48
COCKTAILS, FOR      BOTTLING           58
CRU S TA                               62

FANCY      DRINKS                      64
                    drinks
MISCELLANEOUS                          85
EGG    NOGGS                           94

JULEPS                                 99

NEGUS                                103

MULLS                                loS

FLIPS                                 lie


fizzes                                118

SMASHES                               120


SHRUBS                                122


COBBLERS                              127
  THE BON VIVANT'S COMPANION

DAISIES                        130

TOM   COLLINS                  I32

FIXES                          135

SOURS                          137

TODDIES                        139

SLINGS                         143

SANGAREES                      145

SKINS                          147

SYRUPS, ESSENCES, TINCTURES,
   COLORINGS, ETC.             ^48
temperance drinks              154

INDEX                          161
                          Illustrations

    PROFESSOR THOMAS PREPARING A BLUE BLAZER
                                                   Frontispiece
    PRESIDENT GRANT PLAYING CROQUET AT LONG BRANCH,
           N. J., IN 1870. THE PRESIDENT IS SAID TO HAVE
           BEEN SO IMPRESSED BY HIS FIRST BLUE BLAZER
           THAT HE GAVE PROFESSOR THOMAS A CIGAR            XVii
    INDIGNANT YOUNG LADY REFUSING TO TAKE A DRINK.
           THIS OCCURRED IN 1868                            xxiii
    A STREET SCENE IN NEW YORK IN 1870         MASHERS
            CASTING THEIR SPELLS                           XXXlll

    SCENE AT THE SARATOGA RACES IN 1870                    xxxix
    CHARLEY SANDER, OF THE TALL TOWER, AND HIS
            FAMOUS MUSTACHE
                                                            xliii

        CHARLEY McCARTY, PRINCIPAL BARTENDER AT THE
            ST. JAMES' HOTEL

        THE LOBBY OF TONY PASTOR'S VARIETY THEATER
            IN 1878                                            5
        TOMMY LYNCH AND HIS ASSISTANTS, MIKE AND MIKE         13

        THE KIRALFY TRIO IN THEIR SENSATIONAL DANCE
            A STAGE TRIUMPH OF THE LATE SIXTIES               21




i   ^
        THE BON VIVANT's COMPANION

 THEODORE STEWARX'S BARROOM IN JOHN STREET          31
AN ORGY IN A PRIVATE CLUB ROOM, 1868. SUCH.
    GOINGS-ON WERE NOT PERMITTED IN ANY OF PRO
    FESSOR THOMAS'S ESTABLISHMENTS                  39

MISS ALICE DUNNING, A POPULAR VARIETY ACTRESS OF
    THE SEVENTIES                                   49

DENNIS SULLIVAN AND HIS SALOON AT GRAND AND
    CLINTON STREETS                                 59

BILLY TRACY OF THE BANK EXCHANGE                    69
A ROUE UP TO   HIS NEFARIOUS   TRICKS. PROFESSOR

    THOMAS ONCE HIT A SCOUNDREL OF THIS TYPE
    ON THE HEAD WITH A PUNCH BOWL                   79

JOHN PETERSON, OF KIRK's, AND HIS CELEBRATED
   BALD HEAD                                        ^7
MISS DICKIE LINGARD, A CHARMING STAGE FAVORITE
    OF THE SEVENTIES                                95

SCOUNDRELS PLYING AN INNOCENT      MAIDEN   WITH
    liquor in 1870                                 107
JOHN BOWMAN AND LEN STOCKWELL, OF NO. 157
    FULTON STREET                                  113

A MIDNIGHT SHOW AT THE TIVOLI, A FAMOUS VARIETY
    THEATER IN EIGHTH STREET, IN 1878              123
JOHN AUSTIN, PRINCIPAL BARTENDER AT MEAGHER'S
    SALOON                                         133

JACK KELLY, PRINCIPAL BARTENDER OF THE PRESCOTT
    HOUSE                                          141

SCENE AT THE STAGE DOOR OF A NEW YORK THEATER
   IN x868                                         151
                   ILLUSTRATIONS




Te
 HE illustrations for this book were found in various
issues, from i860 to 1880, of such newspapers as Leslie's
Weekly, Stetson's Dime Illustrated, The Sporting Times and
Theatrical News, The Illustrated News, Under the Gaslight
and Illustrated American Life. The bartenders' portraits are
from Under the Gaslight, which in 1878 and i87g published
a series of sketches and pictures called"Our Bartenders."
                      Introduction


The Lord smiled benevolently upon the city of New
Haven, Connecticut, on a stormy winter's night in 1825, and
His official tot-bearer, the stork, rode the gale from Heaven
and deposited a little stranger within the humble cottage
home of Mr, and Mrs. William Daniel Thomas, respectable
though pious people, who were ever ready to drop a coin into
the collection plate or provide a fried chicken for the pastor.
Like the Magi of eld, they gazed upon the infant in bewil
dered but worshipping awe, and listened raptly to the wails
which racked his puny frame. They named him Jeremiah.
  "We'll make him a preacher," said Mr. Thomas."Or a
Professor," he added, thinking of Yale College and the digni
fied savants of the faculty.
  "A preacher," Mrs. Thomas decided, and murmured ec
statically. "The Reverend Jeremiah Thomas! Oh, Will,
maybe a D.D.!"
  "Of course," agreed Mr. Thomas."By all means a D.D."
  But, alas for the fond hopes of doting parents! A power
transcending that of man had decreed the fate of the inno
cent babe, and no such dreadful destiny had been plotted for
him upon the heavenly charts. He did not become the Rev
erend Jeremiah Thomas,for it was not written that he should
receive and interpret, and when necessary amend, the com
mands and wishes of the Almighty. Nor did he become a
                                                        XV
         THE BON VIVANT's COMPANION

teacher at Yale, although the Yale boys learned much from
him before he left New Haven to give his message to the
world. Instead, he became simply Jerry Thomas, but for
more than three score years he lived a life of singular useful
ness, and blessed many communities with the abundance of
his service. He was a great artist with a touch of true genius,
and the importance of his influence upon the gentler and
more esthetic aspects of American culture has neither been
properly recognized nor adequately estimated. Indeed, he
lies in an obscure grave, untopped by granite shaft or public
memorial.
  Briefly, Jerry Thomas was a bartender. But what a bar
tender! His name should not be mentioned in the same breath
with that of the frowsy gorilla who, in these dark days of
Prohibition, may be found lounging behind the bar of a
dingy basement speakeasy, sloshing luke-warm ginger ale
into a dirty glass half-filled with raw alcohol, and then call
ing the unspeakable concoction a drink. Jerry Thomas had
nothing in common with this Volsteadian ape; there is no
more a basis of comparison than there is between Michel
angelo and Bud Fisher, or Dante and Eddie Guest. For
Jerry Thomas was neither frowsy nor a simian; he was an
imposing and lordly figure of a man, portly, sleek and jovial,
yet possessed of immense dignity. A great diamond gleamed
in his shirt front, and a jacket of pure and spotless white
encased his great bulk; and a huge and handsome mustache,
neatly trimmed in the arresting style called walrus, adorned
his lip and lay caressingly athwart his plump and rosy
cheeks. He presented an inspiring spectacle as he leaned
upon the polished mahogany of his bar, amid the gleam of
polished silver and cut glass, and impressively pronounced
the immemorial greeting, "What will it be, gentlemen?"
— a sacred rite which the modern poison slinger has cor
rupted into a swipe at a pine board with a greasy cloth and
a peevish,"Whatcha want, gents? Hooch?"
  xvi
   President Grant Playing Croquet at Long Branch, N. J in
1870. The President is said to have been so impressed by his first
Blue Blazer that he gave Professor Thomas a cigar
m,.. ;
                     INTRODUCTION


  In these decayed and evangelical times, when drinking has
reverted to a savage guzzling of liquid dynamite, the name
of Jerry Thomas arouses no answering spark of manhood
from the craven victims of bootleg liquor or the cowed and
beaten slaves who labor in the gloomy galleys of the Anti-
Saloon League. But to the ancients who weep beside the bier
of a lost art it brings back beautiful memories of golden
fizzes and stimulating juleps, of cobblers, slings and san-
garees. For Jerry Thomas was the greatest drink mixer of
his age; his praises were sung by enlightened and Christian
men from the Gulf of Mexico to the barren coast of Maine,
and from the Golden Gate to Broadway. Aye, even in Europe
he was recognized as a master craftsman; he visited Liver
pool, Southampton, London and Paris in 1859, bearing with
him his magnificent set of solid silver bar utensils constructed
at a cost of $4,000 for his own personal use, and astounded
the effete drinkers of the Old World with the variety and ex
tent of his virtuosity.
  It was Jerry Thomas — rise, please — who invented those
celebrated cold weather beverages which have come down to
us as the Blue Blazer and the Tom and Jerry, the former a
powerful concoction of burning whiskey and boiling water
which, if properly employed, would render the hot water
bottle obsolete. And it was Jerry Thomas who, a few years
before the Civil War,gave the aid and encouragement of his
genius to the cocktail, then a meek and lowly beverage pining
for recognition and appreciation, and by self-sacrificing work
in the laboratory raised it to its rightful place among the
drinks. A perfect flood of new mixtures soon showered upon
a delighted world, and the Metropolitan Hotel at Prince
Street and Broadway, in New York, where Jerry Thomas
was Principal Bartender in the days when the metropolis
was the scene of the soundest drinking on earth, became the
first great cocktail house. As a mark of gratitude for his in
vention of the Tom and Jerry and the Blue Blazer, and for
                                                         xix
         THE BON VIV ant's COMPANION

his researches in the field of the cocktail, Jerry Thomas's host
of admirers invested him with the honorable, if honorary,
title of Professor, by which he was thereafter known, and
which he carried with becoming dignity through the re
mainder of his earthly pilgrimage. Thus he fulfilled one of
the ambitions which his father had expressed for him as he
lay, a helpless little one, in the cradle of the New Haven cot
tage. But the church, ever an obstacle to human progress,
failed to recognize his genius.
  It was not only as a scientist and beverage dispenser that
Professor Thomas deserves a monument and the plaudits
which are now wasted upon generals, bishops, movie actors,
channel swimmers and aviators, for his interests were numer
ous and his fame in other lines was great; in many different
ways, indeed, he lent force and direction to the cultural ad
vance of the nation. He was a pioneer minstrel showman of
the Pacific Coast, and later owned a music hall in New York
wherein Lew Dockstader began the career which was to make
him the most celebrated minstrel man of his time; and he
sponsored the first public exhibition of Thomas Nast's car
toons, and did much to popularize the work of that famous
artist. And he also achieved renown as a collector; he owned
more than three hundred gourds, of every conceivable shape
and size, the finest and most important group of these natu
ral curiosities in the United States, if not in the world. In
deed, the collection may well have been unique. Moreover,
Professor Thomas was an author whose works have been
sadly neglected by the critics, even by the high-powered,
super-intellectuals among them who possess the occult power
of finding things in a book that the writer never heard of.
These giants customarily sing the praises of realism, yet
they have persistently ignored the product of one of the few
men who were ever able to make the real even more so,
and who at the same time could take a frightened, trembling
wretch and by the skillful application of a cocktail, a cobbler,
  XX
                    INTRODUCTION


a julep or a sangaree, sweetened to his taste, transform him
into a stalwart hero eager and able to bear the world upon
his shoulders. The attention of these critics is respectfully
invited to the volume into which Professor Thomas poured
the vials of his wisdom, nay, his very soul, and published
under this simple title:
                HOW TO MIX DRINKS
                             or

         THE BON VIVANT'S COMPANION

Containing Clear and Reliable Directions for Mixing all the
  Beverages Used in the United States, Together with the
    Most Popular British, French, German, Italian,
      Russian and Spanish Recipes, Embracing
        Punches, Juleps, Cobblers, etc., etc., etc.,
                    in Endless Variety.

                 By jerry THOMAS
 Formerly Principal Bartender at the Metropolitan Hotel,
      New York, and the Planters' House, St. Louis.

           TO WHICH IS APPENDED
      A MANUAL FOR THE MANUFACTURE
                            of
CORDIALS, LIQUORS, FANCY SYRUPS, ETC., ETC.,
After the Most Approved Methods Now Used in the Distil
 lation of Liquors and Beverages, Designed for the Spe
    cial Use of Manufacturers and Dealers in Wines
      and Spirits, Grocers, Tavern Keepers and Pri
        vate Families, the Same Being Adapted
           to the Trade of the United States
                       and Canada.

       ILLUSTRATED WITH DESCRIPTIVE
                    ENGRAVINGS.
                                                      XXI




                                                                -   I I* I   ^-
          the BON VIVANt's COMPANION
                  The Whole Containing
           OVER 600 VALUABLE RECIPES.

              By CHRISTIAN SCHULTZ,
Professor of Chemistry, Apothecary and Manufacturer of
            Wines, Liquors, Cordials, etc., etc.,
                 from Berne,Switzerland.

  This erudite work first appeared early in 1862, and
quickly went through half a dozen large printings. So raptur
ously was it acclaimed, and so phenomenal its success, that
scores of imitations soon appeared, and the book-stalls of the
nation groaned beneath the weight of volumes purporting to
give directions for the concocting of all sorts of delectable
beverages. But through all this excess of publishing Pro
fessor Thomas's work remained steadfastly first in the hearts
of his countrymen, and was everywhere accepted as the pro
duction of a Great Master. Even to this day the real adept at
manipulating a cocktail shaker and other such symbols of
civilization, one who approaches the act of compounding a
drink in the proper humbleness of spirit, regards it somewhat
as the Modernist regards the Scriptures; as perhaps a trifle
out-moded by later discoveries, yet still worthy of all respect
and reverence as the foundation of his creed and practice.
The last edition of the opus was published in 1887, and was
something to weep over, for Professor Thomas's bursts of
lyric writing had been subjected to the censorious scissors
and the ravening blue pencil, and the title of the work had
been changed from the roisteringly significant Bon Vivant's
Companion to the vulgar and prosaic Bartenders' Guide, or
How to Mix All Kinds of Plain and Fancy Drinks. Worse,
the elegant preface had been replaced by uninspiring Hints
to Bartenders! In this form the book lacked spirit and dis
tinction; it was little more than a dull account of instructions
   xxii
Indignant Young Lady Refusing to Take a Drink.
            This occurred in 1868
ty.
                     INTRODUCTION


to take a little of this and a little of that, shake them up and
pour them down. I have been unable to find any record of
how and when Professor Thomas passed to his reward, but
I should not be surprised to learn that he expired of shock
and horror when the final edition of his valuable contribution
to American folk lore was placed in his hands. It is impos
sible to believe that he acquiesced in the editorial mutila
tions. The aim of the present editor has been to preserve the
first edition intact, and to combine with it the best features
of subsequent printings, for many important discoveries
were made, and much valuable knowledge acquired, by the
Professor before he was finally cut down by the Grim
Reaper. This volume, therefore, is an attempt to preserve for
posterity a specimen of Americana which in all likelihood
will never be duplicated, for it is quite improbable that there
will ever again be a legitimate bartender practicing under
the protection of the Stars and Stripes. The work should thus
be of considerable value to the scholar who wishes to study
the manners and customs of the American people in the days
before drinking became extinct, and the bartender a pariah.
In this edition the contribution of Professor Schultz is
omitted as unnecessary, since adequate directions for the
manufacture of beers, wines, whiskeys, and cordials may be
found in any of the standard encyclopedias.


                              II

  When Professor Thomas prepared to write The Bon
Vivant's Companion and spray his nectarian delights upon
a parched and thirsty world, he was very full of his subject
— I speak figuratively — and his enthusiasm took the form
of appending brief but appropriate comment to certain of his
most beloved recipes. Thus, when he had set down the sum
total of human knowledge concerning the preparation of that
blood brother to the cocktail, the brandy crusta, one snifter
                                                         XXV
         THE BON VIVANT's COMPANION

of which would make a Prohibition agent burst into tears
and tear up his bootlegging contracts, he added, "then
smile." Again, when he had described a favorite beverage
in great and glamorous detail, he concluded with the simple
injunction, "Imbibe!" Occasionally he soared into the
more rarefied strata of literary endeavor and brought down
a poem; it is to one of these inspired moments, when the
mantle of Omar lay caressingly across his shoulders, that
we are indebted for the proper method of preparing mulled
wine, a not so mild beverage which in those simple and
lawless days was usually consumed amid the tender intima
cies of the home.
  The Encyclopedia Brittanica and other standard works
of reference, to their shame be it said, contain no accounts
of Professor Thomas's life, and extensive research has failed
to unearth any information about the period of his early
youth. It seems fair to assume, however, that he did not
attend Yale College or otherwise employ his time in dissipa
tion, for at the age of twenty we find him a very eager but
humble Assistant to the Principal Bartender of a New
Haven saloon, where he soon attracted favorable attention by
his indefatigable quest of knowledge and his lush inventive
ness. He remained in New Haven for two years, constantly
adding to his store of wisdom, and conducting a series of
experiments by which he definitely disproved the theory,
then widely held, and in recent years revived, that the
capacity of the American college boy was (and is) prac
tically unlimited. In 1847, having exhausted New Haven
as well as a majority of the Yale lads, Professor Thomas
decided to seek hardier subjects for his tests, and so shipped
before the mast and sailed out of New York aboard the bark
Annie Smith.The skipper of the Annie Smith was a notorious
martinet, but he served excellent grog, and Professor
Thomas hoped that with this as a basis he might invent
something which would relieve the sailor's life of much
  xxvi
                    INTRODUCTION


of its hardship. The plight of the seaman had always sad
dened him.
  The Annie Smith docked at San Francisco in the early
fall of 1849,after an eventful voyage around Cape Horn, and
Professor Thomas left the vessel without the formality of
saying good-bye to the skipper, for that verjuiced person
had failed to recognize genius even when it was constantly
under foot, and had looked with vigorous disapproval upon
all attempts to improve the grog and the drinking habits
of the crew. The Professor wisely remained in seclusion until
the Annie Smith had sailed on her return voyage, and then
became First Assistant to the Principal Bartender of the
El Dorado, a famous resort of early San Francisco. There
he continued his researches, and found excellent laboratory
animals in the booted, bewhiskered, red-shirted, artillery-
laden miners who flocked into the El Dorado eager to
exchange their new-found wealth for the product of the
bartender's genius. For these gentlemen, rough of exterior
but sound drinkers. Professor Thomas prepared the simple
beverages of the period, but on occasion he also compounded
novel mixtures which crashed through their systems and
practically shook them loose from their boots, or at any
rate from their gold dust. It is related that once, when a
gang of desperadoes swarmed into the El Dorado intent
upon robbery, the Professor suavely suggested that they
refresh themselves before proceeding with their nefarious
enterprise. They assented, whereupon he prepared a dram
which stretched them quivering and helpless upon the floor.
The Vigilantes then hanged them with considerable cere
mony.
  Professor Thomas refused to divulge the composition
of the potion with which he had laid the bandits low, insist
ing that it had neither commercial value nor artistic merit,
and that he would never again mix it unless confronted by
a similar emergency. So far as can be ascertained he died
                                                     xxvii
           THE BON VIVANT's COMPANION

with the secret locked in his breast. But the undoing of the
robbers had not exhausted Professor Thomas's powers of
invention, as the customers of the El Dorado learned a few
days later, when there came into the saloon a bewhiskered
giant laden with gold dust and with three layers of pistols
strapped about his middle. He had been many months in
the mines and was fit to be tied; he yearned for adventure,
and loudly proclaimed that whiskey was a beverage for
nursing infants, and boasted that the only way a distillery
could down him would be to fall upon him.
  "Bar-keep!"he roared."Fix me up some hell-fire that'll
shake me right down to my gizzard!"
  Professor Thomas surveyed him calmly and shrewdly esti
mated his capacity, which was obviously abnormal. He
realized that here, at last, was a man worthy of his steel.
  "Come back in an hour," he said."I shall have some
thing for you then."
  The bewhiskered giant, who was also booted, stamped out
of the saloon, and Professor Thomas retired to the back
room. His reputation, he realized, was at stake; if he did
not produce something which would take the roar out of the
Colossus, all would be lost, even honor. So he grappled with
the problem, and within an hour emerged, his brow wrinkled
by furrows from the violence of his effort but with a mag
nificent idea sizzling and crackling in his brain. A deep
silence fell upon the crowded barroom as the Professor,
looking neither to the right nor to the left, moved slowly
into position behind the bar, and with great care took from
their places in a special rack two silver mugs, with handles.
These were the show utensils of the El Dorado, for they
had been imported from New York at great expense, and
the mere fact that they were being handled was sufficient
to indicate that something of importance impended. Care
fully setting the mugs upon the bar. Professor Thomas
twirled his great mustache and turned to his audience,
  xxviii
                     INTRODUCTION


   "Gentlemen!" he announced, impressively, "you are
about to witness the birth of a new beverage!"
   A sigh of anticipation arose from the assemblage, and with
one accord the mass of men moved forward, respectfully,
until they stood five deep before the bar, with the bewhis-
kered giant, still booted, in the front rank. Professor Thomas
smiled, and quietly poured a tumblerful of Scotch whiskey
into one of the mugs, following with a slightly smaller quan
tity of boiling water. Then, with an evil-smelling sulphur
match, he ignited the liquid, and as the blue flame shot
toward the ceiling and the crowd shrank back in awe, he
hurled the blazing mixture back and forth between the two
mugs, with a rapidity and a dexterity that were well nigh
unbelievable. This amazing spectacle continued in full move
ment for perhaps ten seconds, and then Professor Thomas
quickly poured the beverage into a tumbler and smothered
the flame. He stirred a teaspoonful of pulverized white sugar
into the mixture, added a twist of lemon peel, and shoved
the smoking concoction across the bar to the booted and
bewhiskered giant.
  "Sir!" said Professor Thomas, bowing, "The Blue
Blazer!"
  The boastful miner threw his head back and flung the
boiling drink down his throat. He stood motionless for a
moment, smacking his lips and tasting the full flavor of it,
and then a startled expression spread over his face. He
swayed like a reed in the wind. He shivered from head to
foot. His teeth rattled. He batted his eyes. His mouth opened
and closed, but he could say nothing. He sank slowly into a
chair. He was no longer fit to be tied.
  "He done it!"he whispered at last."Right down to my
gizzard! Yes, sir, right down to my gizzard! Yes, sir, right
down to my gizzard!"
  He staggered to his feet, flung a bag of gold dust upon the
bar and wandered unsteadily into the night; and thereafter
                                                       xxix
         THE BON VIVANT's COMPANION

drank no more for three days, for the effect of a Blue
Blazer, prepared in an artistic manner, is by no means
ephemeral. This noble drink soon became the most popular
winter beverage on the Pacific Coast, but the strain of
constantly preparing it so wearied Professor Thomas that
within a few months he concluded to retire from the practice
of his art for a short period of recuperation. He therefore
resigned his position as First Assistant to the Principal
Bartender of the El Dorado, and betook himself to the Yuba
River gold fields, near Donaville, where he staked out a
claim and busied himself with the prosaic occupation of
digging gold. But after a week he could no longer stand
supinely by and witness the monstrous indignities which the
unskilled bartenders of Donaville perpetrated nightly upon
helpless liquors, and he returned to his life work, tending
bar in the saloon owned by Claycraft & Cheever. During
the daylight hours, however, he continued to work his mine,
and by the following spring had amassed a fortune of some
$16,000 in gold dust. And having by that time educated the
Donaville bartenders in good mixing habits, he cast about
for other cultural benefits that he might confer upon the
booted and bewhiskered miners.
  After a careful survey of the field. Professor Thomas de
cided that the principal need of the gold fields was refined
amusement. It is true that the mining camps fairly swarmed
with drinking places, and dance halls staffed by hussies in
short skirts, but Professor Thomas judged that such enter
tainment as they provided was neither refined nor educa
tional; he was especially pained by the drinking habits of
the hussies and their admirers, who generally took their
liquor straight and thereafter abandoned themselves to dis
graceful antics. To remedy this situation, he organized a
minstrel band, with which he toured the gold country
throughout the summer. Ned Beach and Tom King were
the end men, while the troupe also included Billy Wallace,
  XXX
                    INTRODUCTION


Dan Coombs and Charley Stevens, all very famous singers
and blackface comedians. The show prospered, but when
winter came Professor Thomas suddenly abandoned the
enterprise and sailed for Central America. The reason for
his departure remained a mystery until a miner, another
bewhiskered giant, boasted that he had asked Professor
Thomas to prepare a certain beverage, and that the Professor
was obliged to hang his head and admit that he had never
heard of it. The bewhiskered giant explained that the drink
was peculiar to Central America.
  Within a few months Professor Thomas had stocked his
mental reservoir with the wisdom of the Central Americans,
and then took ship to New York. There he learned that the
Yale boys were again strutting boastfully about New Haven
with no bartender to guide them. He immediately answered
the call of duty and hastened to his home town, where he
opened a barroom, introduced the Blue Blazer, and soon
put the Yale lads in their proper places. His task completed.
Professor Thomas disposed of his New Haven holdings, and
journeyed to South Carolina to study the julep in its native
haunt. When he had added this famous concoction to his
repertoire he went to Chicago, and for several months eked
out a lonely existence in that outpost of civilization, which
had not then been subjected to the refining influences of
machine guns and Big Bill Thompson. But he was not long
able to endure the crudities of the lake settlement, and he
soon dropped down to St. Louis, where he became Principal
Bartender of the Planters' House, one of the most famous
hotels in America. It was especially noted for its fried
chicken and waffles, and for catfish and candied sweet pota
toes. It was while he was presiding over the Planters'
House bar, in the early 'fifties, that Professor Thomas
reached the apex of his career by inventing the beverage
which has thundered down the years as the Tom and Jerry,
  A few historians have expressed the opinion that the Tom
                                                      xxxi
          THE BON VIVANT'S COMPANION

and Jerry was an English drink, and that Professor Thomas
merely chanced to be the first bartender of importance to
prepare it in America. This impression probably grew out
of the fact that after 1821, when Pierce Egan published his
famous novel, Life in London, or Days and Nights of Jerry
Hawthorne and His Elegant Friend Corinthian Tom, the
lower class of London public house became known as Tom
and Jerry. Egan's volume, incidentally, was one of Thack
eray's early favorites, and some critics believe that a sequel,
devoted largely to country sports and adventures, suggested
Dickens's Pickwick Papers. Concoctions of hot rum, but un-
spiced, had been favorite tipples in the English barrooms
for many years, and for that matter in America as well, but
I have been unable to find authority for the belief that any
beverage was specifically entitled Tom and Jerry until Pro
fessor Thomas introduced his mixture into St. Louis and
subsequently throughout the land. Moreover, the Professor
first called his invention the Copenhagen, perhaps wishing
to acknowledge his indebtedness, so far as concerned the
basic idea, to a rum-and-egg drink then in vogue in the
capital of Denmark. But the patriotic Missourians refused
to accept a foreign name for such a delectable drink, and
it soon became known simply as Jerry Thomas. It was not
called Tom and Jerry until Professor Thomas brought the
secret to the Atlantic Coast. The name, in this connection,
is obviously a contraction of Professor Thomas s Christian
and surnames.
  With the invention of this prince of cold weather drinks
and the introduction of the Blue Blazer into the Missouri
metropolis. Professor Thomas concluded           though mis
takenly— that he had civilized St. Louis and taken the
curse off the hard mid-western winter. So he surrendered his
post as Principal Bartender at the Planters' House, and amid
the mournful wailing of the citizenry embarked upon a flat-
bottomed stem-wheeler which, in time, landed him at New
  xxxii
          -j.^,. .^ii.-ifi;" cv,-?-.. ■•       -■•■ ■- • ■       '.-rTt
-■-   -     -J ■                    ?.     ■                 r      jm




                    iEisi




                     reef ce e in New York in 1 0 ■
                      Mashers Casting Their Spells




                                                                          j-   AXkfc jft n   I i-t   1
«1 tHiLifcji.i*.   - h »A-"».
                           INTRODUCTION


      Orleans. There he dipped into his money bags and opened
      a barroom which the preface to his literary work describes
      as a very recherche establishment. But he soon became dis
      couraged, for his heart was in the preparation of cold weather
      beverages, and there was scant demand in Louisiana for
      the Blue Blazer and the Tom and Jerry. He soon sold his
      New Orleans property and returned to New York, where
      he was immediately engaged as Principal Bartender of the
      Metropolitan Hotel, then under the management of William
      M. Tweed and a center of the city's night life, which in those
      days was quite abundant. Professor Thomas celebrated
      his return to the chilly North by mixing a huge punch bowl
      of Tom and Jerry, which was given away free to all cus
      tomers for a week, and by introducing several fine Southern
      mixtures to the jaded palates of the principal men of Gotham.
      Chief among them was the Crusta, a beverage of rare merit
      which was first compounded by Santina, owner of a cele
      brated Spanish Cafe in New Orleans.
        When Professor Thomas began his experiments with the
      cocktail, this splendid concoction, whose name is now daily
      taken in vain by thousands of wierd mixtures in thousands
      of American homes, was then the puling infant of the great
      family of beverages, and had few friends and practically no
      admirers. "The cocktail," wrote Professor Thomas,"is a
      modern invention and is generally used on fishing and
      other sporting parties, although some patients insist that it
      is good in the morning as a tonic." Indeed, at this period the
      cocktail was not only a morning drink, an eye-opener, but
      was seldom served over the bar; as Professor Thomas indi
      cates, it was generally bottled and sold for trips into the
      country and other expeditions. In the course of time it
      became more popular, but as late as 1885 it had not become
      the standard before-dinner drink that it was in later years,
      and as it is now throughout this great land."In the morn
      ing," said a paper called Under the Gaslight, in 1879,"the
                                                            XXXV




r.^
          THE BON VIVANT's COMPANION

merchant, the lawyer, or the Methodist deacon takes his
cocktail. Suppose it is not properly compounded? The whole
day's proceedings go crooked because the man himself feels
wrong from the effects of an unskillfully mixed drink."
  After much research Professor Thomas concluded that the
lowly estate of the cocktail was in part due to the faulty
bitters employed in its composition. He therefore busied
himself in laboratory work, and in due time appeared with
Jerry Thomas's Own Bitters. This brilliant discovery was
made soon after Professor Thomas had opened the first of his
New York barrooms, and during the next few years cocktail
drinking increased until the beverage had become the favor
ite morning tipple of all men of convivial habit, and few
self-respecting New York business men would attempt to
begin a day's work without one. However, very few of the
myriad of present day cocktails were known. The first edi
tion of The Bon Vivant's Conipanion lists but ten different
varieties — the bottle, the brandy, the fancy brandy, the
whiskey, the champagne, the gin, the fancy gin, the Japa
nese, the soda and the Jersey. They were all very simple
mixtures, but potent, except the soda and the Jersey.
  Professor Thomas's ballyhoo for the cocktail was carried
on with great vigor for almost a score of years, and the last
edition of his masterpiece contains formulae for no fewer
than twenty-four different mixtures, including such well
known concoctions as the Manhattan, the absinthe, and the
Martini, which was originally called the Martinez. He also
gives directions for preparing the Saratoga and Coffee cock
tails, and the Morning Glory, perhaps the most powerful
of all. They were very popular for many years. In his work
Professor Thomas also describes five very interesting drinks
called the Bishop, the Protestant Bishop, the Archbishop,
the Cardinal and the Pope, which are precisely similar ex
cept for the wines employed in their preparation. Instruc
tions for compounding these beverage? appeared in the first
  xxxvi
                     INTRODUCTION


edition of The Bon Vivant's Companion, but in the last print
ing the Archbishop, the Cardinal and the Pope were omitted,
because of protests from the various Protestant denomina
tions, which complained that the proportion of four Roman
Catholic drinks to one Protestant was unreasonable and
unfair.

                             Ill

  Professor Thomas left the Metropolitan in 1859 to brave
the dangers of a transatlantic voyage, but he was both sea
sick and homesick, and in less than a year he was again in
New York, and at Broadway and Washington Place opened
the most ornate barroom in the metropolis. But within
another twelve months the wanderlust led him in a covered
wagon to San Francisco, where he was Principal Bartender
in the Occidental Hotel for almost two years. Then he joined
a wagon train to Virginia City, Nevada Territory, where
he introduced sound drinking practices and amassed another
small fortune in gold dust. In 1865 lie returned to New
York, and thereafter roamed no more.
  He opened a barroom at Broadway and Twenty-second
Street which became one of the most celebrated saloons in
the history of the city, and was frequented by the best
citizens. Thomas Nast was then a young man struggling to
find his place in the field of art, and Professor Thomas gra
ciously extended a helping hand and opened his back room
to the first exhibition of Nast cartoons. A hundred carica
tures of prominent personages were displayed upon the
walls, and Nast leaped into instant popularity. Later Ned
Mullin, a brilliant but dissipated caricaturist, also exhibited
his work in Professor Thomas's art gallery, as did Theodore
Wust and Junmp, clever draughtsmen who had been dis
covered in San Francisco by the Professor and brought
to New York to make their little artistic splashes.
  After seven years of continuous success and popularity,
                                                      xxxvii
            THE BON VIVANT'S COMPANION

Professor Thomas sold his property and opened another
and equally elaborate place at No. 1239 Broadway, where he
remained for eight years. He finally disposed of this estab
lishment to John Morrissey, a noted political and sporting
figure who was in turn a successful gang captain, a prize
fighter with a victory over John C. Heenan to his credit, the
owner of luxurious gambling houses in New York and Sara
toga Springs, a member of Congress and finally, with the
original Honest John Kelly (not the gambler of that name)
co-leader of Tammany Hall. Morrissey came to New York
in the early fifties, when more than 6,000 gaming places
were in open operation on Manhattan Island. Of these some
300 were first-class establishments catering to men of sound
financial substance and furnished with an elegance unsur
passed in later years. A majority of these early houses were
in Park Row, Park Place and lower Broadway, and in Bar
clay, Vesey and Liberty Streets, which are now entirely given
over to business. They included such celebrated resorts as
those operated by Orlando Moore, Handsome Sam Suydam,
Jack Wallis, John Colton and Pat Herne. Wallis was a Chi
naman who had been a faro dealer for French Jose, but had
won the business from his employer on the toss of a coin.
Many of the best houses were owned or backed by Reuben
Parsons, the gambling monarch of the period, who was
widely known as the Great American Faro Banker. Morris-
sey's most noted place was in Broadway just north of Tenth
Street, not far from the present Grace Episcopal Church
and Wanamaker's Store. His house in Saratoga Springs,
which he founded in 1867, later came under the ownership
of Richard Canfield, probably the most famous gambling-
house proprietor New York has ever produced. In all of these
elegant establishments faro was the principal game, and for
more than twenty years after the Civil War it occupied the
place in the affections of American gamblers that bridge
and poker hold today,
  xxxviii
Scene at the Saratoga Races in i8yo
t
                    INTRODUCTION


  After John Morrissey had purchased the Broadway prop
erty Professor Thomas moved downtown, and in August,
187s, opened Thomas's Exchange at No. 3 Barclay Street,
which soon became as popular as any of his other places.
Morrissey operated the Broadway house as a pool room for
a year or so, when it again came into the hands of the Profes
sor, and was remodeled as a theater. It opened with a min
strel show in which Lew Dockstader made his first hit as a
comedian. Dockstader's brother Charley was also a member
of the company,as were Tommy Turner, Billy Bryant, Frank
Kent, and Charley White, then the dean of minstrelsy. It
was soon after he opened his Barclay Street bar that Pro
fessor Thomas began to form his notable collection of gourds,
which soon crowded cartoons and caricatures out of his
mind, and within a few months literally covered the walls
of his back room.
  Professor Thomas's business rivals included many cele-
brated bartenders, for this was the golden age of the Amer
ican saloon, and Manhattan Island was dotted with high-
class establishments from the Battery northward to Spuyten
Duyvil, presided over by men who took their profession seri
ously and strove mightily to bring it to perfection. A noted
barroom of the period was the Tall Tower in the basement
of The Tribune building at Spruce and Nassau Streets, which
in earlier years had been the site of the original Tammany
Hall, and before that of Martling's Restaurant, commonly
called the Pig Pen, where the Tammany organization held
its first meetings. The Tall Tower was much frequented by
editors and reporters of The Times, The Tribune and other
newspapers which had their plants on Printing House Square.
It was owned by Koster & Bial, who were also the proprie
tors of the famous music hall which bore their name, and
Charley Sander was the Principal Bartender. Sander was a
young man when he presumed to compete with Professor
Thomas as a drink mixer, but he could wiggle his ears, and
                                                         xli
          THE BON VIVANT's COMPANION

was even then the possessor of a mustache of considerable
renown; connoisseurs regarded it as second in luxuriance
and beauty only to the hirsute marvel which adorned the lip
of Professor Thomas. However, it was generally conceded
that the latter's was more thoroughly trained, or cowed, and
lay closer to his cheek.
   Another popular drinking place was the barroom of the St.
James Hotel, at Broadway and Twenty-sixth Street, where
Charley McCarty presided with dignity and efficiency. Mc-
Carty is said to have changed the designation of his im
portant office from Principal Bartender to Head Bartender,
a revolution in nomenclature which affected all subsequent
practitioners of his art. He was also a patron of the theater,
and attracted much attention by suggesting to Tony Pastor
that he interpolate twelve clog dancers in the action of
Pinafore, which Pastor produced in his variety theater in
1879.
   Tommy Lynch was his own Principal Bartender in the
Bennett Building Bar in Nassau Street, but he had as as
sistants two gifted and industrious young men, his cousin,
Michael Lynch, and his brother, also Michael Lynch. The
former was commonly called Doctor, for he kept various
medical books behind the bar and prescribed for all illnesses.
Generally he recommended a stout snifter of Monogram
whiskey. Mr.L5mch is said to have owned stock in the Mono
gram distillery. The Bank Exchange at Broadway and
Twenty-ninth Street, owned by Billy Tracy, was a favorite
resort of sporting and political figures. The stage entrance
of the San Francisco Minstrels was just across the street,
and members of the troupe gathered nightly in Tracy's place
to discuss the problems of the day. Billy Burch was a regular
visitor, and so was Charley Backus, then famous as an
American Tragedian, while Jem Mace, the prize fighter,
made the Exchange his headquarters.
  Farther downtown, in John Street, Theodore Stewart's
  xlii
Charley Sander, oj the Tall Tower, and His Famous Mustache
          .J"; ■




       / V "'




'■ ' ' .■ i', Yi ■



                     '
                     INTRODUCTION


hotel and restaurant bar was very popular. He also owned
another place in Warren Street, a few blocks north of John
Street and not far from City Hall, which is still in operation
as a restaurant, although the bar has long since vanished.
Charley Perkins was the Principal Bartender at the John
Street establishment, assisted by Charley Foster, and Gus
Yooss, a gifted drink mixer from Philadelphia. It was
Stewart's custom to divide among his employees the receipts
of both barrooms on Christmas and New Year's Days.
  Dennis Sullivan's saloon, at Grand and Clinton Streets,
numbered among its regular customers many city and court
officials, and business men throughout that part of the city.
Kirk & Company owned barrooms at No. 69 Fulton Street
and at No. 709 Broadway, which a reporter of the period
described as "synonyms of bibulous respectability." John
F. Peterson was the Principal Bartender at Kirk's Broadway
establishment, and was famous for his bald head, said to be
the most highly polished in the city. He possessed a secret
preparation with which he rubbed it three times daily, and
frequently permitted the gay bloods who thronged the saloon
to use it as a mirror. John Bowman operated a noted saloon
at No. 157 Fulton Street, where the Principal Bartender was
Len Stockwell, who varied his labors with occasional stage
appearances as a clog and jig dancer.
  Over on the East Side John Austin was Principal Bar
tender at Meagher's Saloon, which in 1879 had been in
continuous operation for twenty-five years. Across town, at
Broadway and Spring Street, was the Prescott House, then
one of the oldest hotels in the city, but long since demolished.
Jack Kelly was Principal Bartender there for many years.
He had also worked at Kitner's Bar in Spring Street, near
Broadway, which was one of the most palatial saloons in the
city. It was especially famous for its cocktails, which news
paper writers described as particularly "smooth and insin
uating."
                                                         xlv
         THE BON VIVANT'S COMPANION

  In Barclay Street, now largely devoted to the sale of relig
ious images and literature, Professor Thomas spent the
remainder of his professional career, surrounded by his
gourds and warmed by the respect and admiration of all
enlightened drinkers. He strove to the last to inculcate
proper drinking habits in his clientele, and frowned sternly
and disapprovingly upon drunkenness and other forms of
dissipation. During his later years, as is the fashion of decay
ing men, he became just a bit finicky, especially about the
Blue Blazer and the Tom and Jerry. He insisted that they
were intended for cold weather only, and refused to prepare
the Tom and Jerry until the first snowfall. It is related that
he once smashed a punch bowl containing the mixture which
he found in the bar of a business rival in early September.
He was even more strict with the Blue Blazer, and would
concoct it for no man until the thermometer registered ten
degrees or less above zero.
  Thus battling for classical standards in his chosen art, he
passed away, mourned and honored. He remains the greatest
bartender in American history.
                                         Herbert Asbury
New York City,
September i, 1928.




  xlvi
          Preface to the First Edition

IN all the ages of the world, and in all countries, men have
indulged in "social drinks." They have always possessed
themselves of some popular beverage apart from water and
those of the breakfast and tea table. Whether it is judicious
that mankind should continue to indulge in such things, or
whether it would be wiser to abstain from all enjoyments of
that character, it is not our province to decide. We leave that
question to the moral philosopher. We simply contend that a
relish for "social drinks" is universal; that those drinks
exist in greater variety in the United States than in any other
country in the world; and that he, therefore, who proposes
to impart to these drinks not only the most palatable but the
most wholesome characteristics of which they may be made
susceptible, is a genuine public benefactor. That is exactly
our object in introducing this little volume to the public. We
do not propose to persuade any man to drink, for instance, a
punch, or a julep, or a cocktail, who has never happened to
make the acquaintance of those refreshing articles under cir
cumstances calculated to induce more intimate relations; but
we do propose to instruct those whose"intimate relations"
in question render them somewhat fastidious, in the daintiest
fashions thereunto pertaining.
  We very well remember seeing one day in London, in the
rear of the Bank of England, a small drinking saloon that
had been set up by a peripatetic American, at the door of
                                                        xlvii
            THE BON VIVANX'S COMPANION

 which was placed a board covered with the unique titles of
 the American mixed drinks supposed to be prepared within
 that limited establishment. The "Connecticut eye-openers"
 and "Alabama fog-cutters," together with the "lightning-
 smashes" and the "thunderbolt-cocktails," created a pro
 found sensation in the crowd assembled to peruse the Nec
 tarine bill of fare, if they did not produce custom. It struck
 us, then, that a list of all the social drinks — the composite
 beverages, if we may call them so — of America, would really
 be one of the curiosities of jovial literature; and that if it
 was combined with a catalogue of the mixtures common to
other nations, and made practically useful by the addition of
a concise description of the various processes for "brewing"
each, it would be a "blessing to mankind." There would be
no excuse for imbibing, with such a book at hand, the "vil
lainous compounds"of bar-keeping Goths and Vandals, who
know no more of the amenities of bon vivant existence than
a Hottentot can know of the bouquet of champagne.
  "There's philosophy," said Father Tom in the drama,
"even in a jug of punch." We claim the credit of"philoso
phy teaching by example," then, to no ordinary extent in the
composition of this volume; for our index exhibits the title
of eighty-six different kinds of punches, together with a uni
verse of cobblers, juleps, bitters, cups, slings, shrubs, etc.,
each and all of which the reader is carefully educated how to
concoct in the choicest manner. For the perfection of this
education, the name, alone, of Jerry Thomas is a sufficient
guarantee. He has travelled Europe and America in search
of all that is recondite in this branch of the spirit art. He has
been the Jupiter Olympus of the bar at the Metropolitan
Hotel in this city. He was the presiding deity at the Planters'
House, St. Louis. He has been the proprietor of one of the
most recherche saloons in New Orleans as well as in New
York. His very name is synonymous, in the lexicon of mixed
drinks, with all that is rare and original. To The Wine Press,
   xlviii
                                                'm
                                                ''it-
                                       W'-

                                      .'p.' '




                                                               I I




Charley McCarty, Principal Bartender at the St. James' Hotel
>
w
r



            PREFACE      TO   THE   FIRST    EDITION


    edited by F. S. Cozzens, Esq., we are indebted for the com
    position of several valuable punches, and among them we
    may particularize the celebrated "Nuremburgh," and the
    equally famous"Philadelphia Fish-House"punch. The rest
    we owe to the inspiration of Jerry Thomas himself, and as
    he is as inexorable as the Medes and Persians in his principle
    that no excellent drink can be made out of anything but ex
    cellent materials, we conceive that we are safe in asserting
    that whatever may be prepared after his instructions will be
    able to speak eloquently for itself. "Good wine needs no
    bush," Shakespeare tells us and over one of Jerry's mixtures
    eulogy is quite as redundant.




                                                              11
How to Mix Drinks
'lr'<




        ,. .!
                           Punch

TcO make punch of any sort in perfection, the ambrosial
essence of the lemon must be extracted by rubbing lumps of
sugar on the rind, which breaks the delicate little vessels that
contain the essence, and at the same time absorbs it. This,
and making the mixture sweet and strong, using tea instead
of water, and thoroughly amalgamating all the compounds,
so that the taste of neither the bitter, the sweet, the spirit,
nor the element, shall be perceptible one over the other, is
the grand secret, only to be acquired by practice.
     In making hot toddy, or hot punch, you must put in
the spirits before the water: in cold punch, grog, etc., the
other way.
     The precise proportions of spirit and water, or even
of the acidity and sweetness, can have no general rule, as
scarcely two persons make punch alike.                 '




                     BRANDY PUNCH

                     Use large bar glass

One teaspoonful of rasp          One and one-half wine
  berry syrup.                     glasses of brandy.
Two tablespoonsful of white      One-half small sized lemon.
   sugar.                        Two slices of orange.
One wineglass of water.          One piece of pineapple.
         THE BON VIVANT's COMPANION

Fill the tumbler with shaved ice, shake well, and dress the
top with berries in season. Sip through a straw.




                         ... 2...

                   BRANDY PUNCH

                   For a party of twenty

One gallon of water.           One pineapple, pared, and
Three quarts of brandy.          cut up.
One-half pint of Jamaica       One gill of curagao.
  rum.                         Two gills of raspberry syrup.
Two pounds of sugar.           Ice, and    add   berries in
Juice of six lemons.             season.

Three oranges sliced.
Mix the materials well together in a large bowl, and you
have a splendid punch.




                MISSISSIPPI PUNCH

                   Use large bar glass

One wineglass of brandy.       One and one-half table-
One-half wineglass of Ja         spoonsful of powdered
  maica rum.                     white sugar.
One-half wineglass of Bour     One-quarter of a large lemon.
  bon whiskey.                 Fill a tumbler with shaved
One-half wineglass of water.     ice.

The above must be well shaken, and to those who like their
draughts "like linked sweetness long drawn out," let them
                         PUNCH


use a glass tube or straw to sip the nectar through. The top
of this punch should be ornamented with small pieces of
orange, and berries in season.




           HOT   BRANDY     AND     RUM      PUNCH

                   For a party of fifteen

One quart of Jamaica rum.       Four lemons.
One quart of Cognac brandy.     Three     quarts   of   boiling
One pound of white loaf             water.
  sugar.                        One teaspoonful of nutmeg.
Rub the sugar over the lemons until it has absorbed all the
yellow part of the skins, then put the sugar into a punch
bowl; add the ingredients well together, pour over them the
boiling water, stir well together; add the rum, brandy and
nutmeg; mix thoroughly, and the punch will be ready to
serve. As we have before said, it is very important, in mak
ing good punch, that all the ingredients are thoroughly in
corporated; and, to insure success, the process of mixing
must be diligently attended to. Allow a quart for four per
sons; but this information must be taken cum grano sails;
for the capacities of persons for this kind of beverage are
generally supposed to vary considerably.



                         • • • 5 •" •
            SCOTCH WHISKEY PUNCH


Steep the thin yellow shavings of lemon peel in the whiskey,
which should be of the best quality; the sugar should be
                                                           3
                                                                    n
          THE BON VIVANT'S COMPANION

dissolved in boiling water. As it requires genius to make
whiskey punch, it would be impertinent to give proportions.



                            ...6...
                   WHISKEY PUNCH

One wineglass of whiskey             Two wineglasses of boiling
  {Irish or Scotch).                   water.
                                     Sugar to taste.
Dissolve the sugar well with one wineglass of the water,
then pour in the whiskey, and add the balance of the water.
Sweeten to taste, and put in a small piece of lemon rind, or a
thin slice of lemon.


                            •• ■ ^     ■
                COLD WHISKEY PUNCH

                       Use large bar glass

One tablespoonjul of pow- One and one-half wine-
  dered white sugar dis-               glasses of Irish or Scotch
  solved in a little water.            whiskey.
Juice of half a small lemon.
Fill the glass with shaved ice, shake well, and dress the top
with two thin slices of lemon, and berries in season. Serve
with a straw.
     This beverage ought always to be made with boiling
water, and allowed to concoct and cool for a day or two be
fore it is put on the table. In this way, the materials get more
intensely amalgamated than cold water and cold whiskey
ever get. As to the beautiful mutual adaptation of cold rum
and cold water, that is beyond all praise, being one of Na
ture's most exquisite achievements.
  4
            nffaHHI                                      rTSi




                                   m
                                                                i


                                                     »



                          Ml




w
'ik   ,




''iiiji-'


            TAe Lobby of Tony Pastor's Variety Theater in 1878
                              PUNCH



                              ...8... ,
                 IRISH     WHISKEY         PUNCH

This is the genuine Irish beverage. It is generally made one-
third pure whiskey, and two-thirds boiling water, in which
the sugar has been dissolved. If lemon punch, the rind is
rubbed on the sugar, and a small proportion of juice added
before the whiskey is poured in.
       Irish whiskey is not fit to drink until it is three years
old.

                              ...9...
                           GIN   PUNCH

                        Use large bar glass
One tablespoonjul of rasp-           One and one-half wineglasses
   berry syrup.                         of gin.
Two tablespoonsful of white          One-half of a small-sized
   sugar.                              lemon.
One wineglass of water.              Two slices of orange.
                                     One piece of pineapple.
Fill the tumbler with shaved ice. Shake well, and ornament
the top with berries in season. Sip through a glass tube or
straw.

                             ...10...

                          GIN    PUNCH

                    From a recipe by Soyer.^
One-half pint of old gin.           Four ounces of syrup.
One gill of maraschino.              One quart bottle of German
The juice of two lemons.               seltzer water.
The rind of half a lemon.           Ice well.
     1 Alexis Benoit Soyer, a famous French culinary artist who died in
1858. He was chef to several English noblemen, and in 1855 was culinary
adviser to the British Army in the Crimea. He invented an army cooking
wagon and wrote many books on cookery. His wife was a portrait painter.
                                                                  7
          THE BON VIVANT's COMPANION




                 CHAMPAGNE PUNCH


One quart bottle of wine.        One wineglass of raspberry
One quarter pound of sugar.        or strawberry syrup.
One orange, sliced.              Ornament with fruits in sea-
The juice of a lemon.              son, and serve in cham-
Three slices of pineapple.         pagne goblets.
This can be made in any quantity by observing the propor
tions of the ingredients as given above. Four bottles of wine
make a gallon, and a gallon is generally sufficient for fifteen
persons in a mixed party. For a good champagne punch, see
Rocky Mountain Punch, No. 43.



                    SHERRY PUNCH

                     Use large bar glass
Two wineglasses of sherry. Two or three slices of orange.
One tablespoonful of sugar. Two or three slices of lemon.
Fill tumbler with shaved ice, shake well, and ornament with
berries in season. Sip through a straw.


                          •      •••




                     CLARET PUNCH

                     Use large bar glass
One and one-half tablespoons One slice of lemon.
  of sugar.                     Two or three slices of orange.
Fill the tumbler with shaved ice, and then pour in your
claret, shake well, and ornament with berries in season. Place
  8
                           PUNCH


a straw in the glass. To make a quantity of claret punch,see
Imperial Punch, No. 41.




                    SAUTERNE     PUNCH

                     Use large bar glass

The same as claret punch, using sauterne instead of claret.




                           ...IS**"
                    PORT   WINE PUNCH

                     Use large bar glass

The same as claret punch, using port wine instead of claret,
and ornament with berries in season.



                           ...I 6...
                     VANILLA PUNCH

                     Use large bar glass

 One tablespoonful of sugar. The juice of one-quarter of a
 One wineglass of brandy.      lemon.
 Fill the tumbler with shaved ice, shake well, ornament with
 one or two slices of lemon, and flavor with a few drops of
 vanilla extract.
      This is a delicious drink, and should be imbibed through
 a glass tube or straw.
                                                          9
           THE BON VIV ant's COMPANION


                             ...17...
                     PINEAPPLE PUNCH

                        For a party of ten

Four bottles of champagne. Juice of four lemons.
One pint of Jamaica rum.   Four pineapples sliced.
One pint of brandy.                  Sweeten to taste with pul-
One gill of curaqao.                    verized white sugar.
Put the pineapple with one pound of sugar in a glass bowl,
and let them stand until the sugar is well soaked in the pine
apple, then add all the other ingredients, except the cham
pagne. Let this mixture stand in ice for about an hour, then
add the champagne. Place a large block of ice in the center
of the bowl, and ornament it with loaf sugar, sliced orange,
and other fruits in season.
     Serve in champagne glasses.
     Pineapple punch is sometimes made by adding sliced
pineapple to brandy punch.



                            ...18...
                       ORGEAT PUNCH

                       Use large bar glass
One and one-half table- Juice of one-half a lemon,
  spoonsful of orgeat syrup? and fill the tumbler with
One and one-half            wine       shaved ice.
  glasses of brandy.
Shake well, ornament with berries in season, and dash port
wine on top.
    Place the straw as in a mint julep.
     ^ a decoction of which barley was formerly an important ingredient,
but which is now prepared with an emulsion of almonds.
  10
                           PUNCH



                          ...19...
                    CURAgAO PUNCH

                     Use large bar glass

One tablespoonjul of sugar.     One wineglass of water.
One wineglass of brandy.        One-half pony glass of cu-
One-half wineglass of Ja-         raqao.
  maica rum.                    The juice of half a lemon.
Fill the tumbler with shaved ice, shake well, and ornament
with fruits of the season. Sip the nectar through a straw.

                          • ..20...

                     ROMAN      PUNCH

                     Use large bar glass

One tablespoonful of sugar.     One wineglass of Jamaica
One tablespoonful of rasp-        rum.
   berry syrup.                 One-half wineglass brandy.
One teaspoonful of curaqao.     The juice of half a lemon.
Fill with shaved ice, shake well, dash with port wine, and
ornament with fruits in season. Imbibe through a strajw.

                         •••2 I.*.

                      MILK PUNCH

                     Use large bar glass

One tablespoonful of fine       One-half wineglass Santa
  white sugar.                    Cruz rum.
Two tablespoonfuls of water. One-third      tumblerful        of
One wineglass of Cognac           shaved ice.
  brandy.
Fill with milk, shake the ingredients well together, and
grate a little nutmeg on top.
                                                         II
         THE BON VIVANt's COMPANION


                          ...22...

                  HOT    MILK PUNCH

                    Use large bar glass

This punch is made the same as No. 21, with the exception
that hot milk is used, and no ice.


                         ...23...

            MANHATTAN             MILK PUNCH


Same as the following cold milk punch, with the addition of
five drops of aromatic tincture."


                         ...24...

                  EGG    MILK PUNCH

                    Use large bar glass

One teaspoonful of fine           One-fourth    wineglass   of
  white sugar.                      Santa Cruz rum.
One wineglass of brandy.          One egg.
                                  Small lump of ice.
Fill the glass with pure fresh milk, shake the ingredients
well together, and strain into a large glass.


                          • ••2

               ENGLISH MILK PUNCH

Put the following ingredients into a very clean pitcher, viz..
The juice of six lemons.        One pineapple, peeled, sliced
The rind of two lemons.                  pounded.
One pound of sugar.               Six cloves.
                      8 See Recipe No. 286.
  12
          ^Bii




          5a?




Tommy Lynch and His Assistants, MikQ md Mike
.'.''■■-"a   ■■
                                 PUNCH


Twenty coriander seeds.                 One gill of arracks
One small stick of cinnamon.            One cup of strong green tea.
One pint of brandy.                     One quart of boiling water.
One pint of rum.
The boiling water to be added last; cork this down to pre
vent evaporation, and allow these ingredients to steep for at
least six hours; then add a quart of hot milk and the juice
of two lemons; mix, and filter through a jelly-bag; and when
the punch has passed bright, put it away in tight-corked
bottles. This punch is intended to be iced for drinking.



                   ENGLISH          MILK PUNCH

                            Another method

This seductive and nectareous drink can also be made by
the directions herewith given:
     To two quarts of water add one quart of milk. Mix one
quart of old Jamaica rum with two of French brandy, and
put the spirit to the milk, stirring it for a short time; let it
stand for an hour, but do not suffer any one of delicate ap
petite to see the melange in its present state, as the sight
might create a distaste for the punch when perfected. Filter
through blotting-paper into bottles; and should you find that
the liquid is cloudy, when it should not be, you may clarify it
by adding a small portion of isinglass to each bottle. The
above recipe will furnish you with half a dozen of punch.
     4 Most of the arrack imported into this country is distilled from rice,
and comes from Batavia. It is little used in America, except to flavor punch;
the taste of it is very agreeable in this mixture. Arrack improves much with
age. It is much used in some parts of India, where it is distilled from toddy,
the juice of the cocoanut tree. An imitation of arrack is made by adding to a
bowl of punch a few grains of benzoin, or Flowers of Benjamin. — J. T.
Arrack was also a favorite tipple of Robinson Crusoe's. He included several
gallons in the cargo of the first raft which he launched from the wrecked
ship of which he was the sole survivor.
                                                                       IS
          THE BON VIVANT's COMPANION


                         ...27...
                  PUNCH      A   LA   FORD

A recipe from Benson E. Hjill, Esq., author of The Epicure's
                          Almanac

"The late General Ford, who for many years was the com
manding engineer at Dover, kept a most hospitable board,
and used to make punch on a large scale, after the following
method:
    "He would select three dozen of lemons, the coats of
which were smooth, and whose rinds were not too thin; these
he would peel with a sharp knife into a large earthen vessel,
taking care that none of the rind should be detached but
that portion in which the cells are placed, containing the es
sential oil; when he had completed the first part of the proc
ess, he added two pounds of lump-sugar, and stirred the peel
and sugar together with an oar-shaped piece of wood, for
nearly half an hour, thereby extracting a greater quantity of
the essential oil. Boiling water was next poured into the ves
sel, and the whole well stirred, until the sugar was completely
dissolved. The lemons were then cut and squeezed, the juice
strained from the kernels; these were placed in a separate
jug, and boiling water poured upon them, the general being
aware that the pips were enveloped in a thick mucilage, full
of flavor; half the lemon juice was now thrown in; and as
soon as the kernels were free from their transparent coating,
their liquor was strained and added.
    "The sherbet was now tasted; more acid or more sugar
applied as required, and care taken not to render the lemon
ade too watery.'Rich of the fruit, and plenty of sweetness,
was the General's maxim. The sherbet was then measured,
and to every three quarts a pint of Cognac brandy and a pint
of old Jamaica rum were allotted, the spirit being well stirred
as poured in; bottling immediately followed, and, when com-
  16
                           PUNCH


pleted, the beverage was kept in a cold cellar, or tank, till re
quired. At the General's table I have frequently drunk punch
thus made, more than six months old; and found it much im
proved by time and a cool atmosphere."


                          ...28...

                     PUNCH JELLY

Make a good bowl of punch,a la Ford, already described. To
every pint of punch add an ounce and a half of isinglass, dis
solved in a quarter of a pint of water (about half a tumbler
full); pour this into the punch whilst quite hot, and then fill
your moulds, taking care that they are not disturbed until
the jelly is completely set.
     Orange, lemon, or calf's-foot jelly, not used at dinner,
can be converted into punch jelly for the evening, by follow
ing the above directions, only taking care to omit a portion
of the acid prescribed in making the sherbet.
     This preparation is a very agreeable refreshment on a
cold night, but should be used in moderation; the strength
of the punch is so artfully concealed by its admixture with
the gelatine, that many persons, particularly of the softer
sex, have been tempted to partake so plentifully of it as to
render them somewhat unfit for waltzing or quadrilling after
supper.

                          ...29...
                    GLASGOW PUNCH

From a recipe in the possession of Dr. Shelton Mackenzie
Melt lump sugar in cold water, with the juice of a couple of
lemons, passed through a fine hair-strainer. This is sherbet,
and must be well mingled. Then add old Jamaica rum — one
part of rum to five of sherbet. Cut a couple of limes in two,
                                                          17
           THE BON VIVANT'S COMPANION

and run each section rapidly around the edge of the jug or
bowl, gently squeezing in some of the delicate acid. This
done, the punch is made. Imbibe.




                             ...30...
                     regent's punch

                      For a party of twenty

Three bottles of champagne.         Two bottles of Madeira.
One bottle of Hockheimer.^          Two bottles of seltzer, or
One bottle of curagao.                plain soda water.
One bottle of Cognac.               Four pounds of bloom rai-
One-half bottle of Jamaica             sins,
  rum.


To which add oranges, lemons, rock candy, and instead of
water, green tea to taste. Refrigerate with all the icy power
of the Arctic.



                             ...3 I • • •
                     regent's punch

                          Another recipe
         From the Bordeaux Wine and Liquor Guide
One and one-half pint each One pint each of rum,
  of strong hot green tea,   brandy, arrack, and cu-
  lemon juice and capil-               ragao.
  laireP                            One bottle of champagne;
                                       mix, and slice of pineapple
                                       into it.

    ® A Rhine wine produced at Hochheim, near Mainz, Germany.
    ® See Recipes Nos. 6S and 66.
  18
                        PUNCH



                        ...32.,.

                RASPBERRY       PUNCH

         From The Bordeaux Wine and Liquor Guide
One and one-halj gill of      Three-quarters of a pound of
  raspberry juice, or vine-     lump sugar,
  gar.                        Three and one-halj pints of
                                boiling water.
Infuse half an hour, strain, add one-half pint of porter,
three-quarters to one pint, each, of rum and brandy (or
either one and one-half to two pints), and add more water
and sugar, if desired weaker or sweeter. A liqueur glass of
curagao, noyau, or maraschino, improves it.


national        guard     7TH   REGIMENT        PUNCH

                   Use large bar glass
One tablespoonjul of sugar.   One wineglass of Catawba
The juice of a quarter of a     wine.
 lemon.                       Flavor with raspberry syrup.
One wineglass of brandy.
Fill the glass with shaved ice. Shake and mix thoroughly,
then ornament with slices of orange, pineapple, and berries
in season, and dash with Jamaica rum. This delicious bever
age should be imbibed through a straw.

                        ...34-..
              ST. CHARLES' PUNCH
                   Use large bar glass
One tablespoonjul of sugar. The juice of one-fourth of a
One wineglass of port wine.   lemori.
One pony of brandy.
                                                      19
           THE BON VIVANT'S COMPANION

Fill the tumbler with shaved ice, shake well, ornament with
fruits in season, and serve with a straw.


                             .. • 3 5 • ••
               69TH REGIMENT PUNCH
                          In earthen mug

One-halj wineglass of Irish          One teaspoonjul of sugar.
  whiskey.                           One piece of lemon.
One-half    wineglass    of          Two wineglasses of hot
  Scotch whiskey.                      water.
This is a capital punch for a cold night.

                             ...36...
       LOUISIANA           SUGAR       HOUSE PUNCH


From a recipe in the possession of Colonel T. B. Thorpe''
To one quart of boiling syrup, taken from the kettles, add
whiskey or brandy to suit the patient. Flavor with the juice
of sour oranges.
                             ...3 7 •• •
                         DRY PUNCH

From a recipe by Santina, the celebrated Spanish caterer
Two gallons of brandy.               One-half pint of curagao.
One gallon of water.                 Juice of six lemons.
One-half gallon of tea.              One and one-half pound of
One pint of Jamaica rum.                white sugar.
Mix thoroughly, and strain, as already described in the
recipe for Punch a la Ford, adding more sugar and lemon
     ^ Colonel Thorpe was an American author and painter who died in
1878. At the age of seventeen he illustrated Irving's "The Bold Dragoon,"
and after he came to New York in 18S9 he was a frequent contributor to
Harper's, Blackwoods' and other magazines.
  20
The Kiraljy Trio in Their Sensational Dance — A Stage
           Triumph of the Late Sixties
It '
I .,
                            PUNCH


juice, to taste. Bottle, and keep on ice for three or four days,
and the punch will be ready for use; but the longer it stands,
the better it gets.

                           ...38,..
                   LA   PATRIA        PUNCH

                     For a party of twenty

Three bottles of champagne,         Six oranges.
  iced.                             One pineapple.
One bottle of Cognac.
Slice the oranges and pineapple in a bowl, pour the Cognac
over them, and let them steep for a couple of hours, then
in with the champagne and serve immediately.


                            • • • 3 9 •• •
                SPREAD       EAGLE PUNCH


One bottle of Scotch whis-          Lemon peel, sugar and boil-
  key.                                 ing water at discretion.
One bottle of rye whiskey.


                            •• •   O •• •

                  ROCHESTER            PUNCH

                     For a party of twenty
   From a recipe in the possession of Roswell Hart, Esq.
Two bottles of sparkling             One bottle of sauterne.
  Catawba.                           Two wineglasses of mara-
Two bottles of sparkling Isa-          schino.
   bella.^                           Two wineglasses of curaqao.
     8 A wine made from the Isabella grape, a purple American grape of
sweet flavor.

                                                                23
          THE BON         VIVANT's COMPANION

Fill the tranquil bowl with ripe strawberries. Should the
strawberry season be over, or under, add a few drops of
extract of peach or vanilla.


                            ...41...

                    IMPERIAL          PUNCH


One bottle 0} claret.               One liqueur glass of mara-
One bottle of soda water.              schino.
Four tablespoonfuls of pow- About one-half pound of ice.
  dered white sugar.                 Three or four slices of cu-
One-quarter teaspoonful of             cumber rind,
  grated nutmeg.
Put all the ingredients into a bowl or pitcher and mix well.


                            • *•4^ •••
         THIRTY-SECOND REGIMENT                          OR
                    VICTORIA PUNCH

                     For a party of twenty

        Recipe from the late Wm. H. Herbert, Esq.®
Six lemons, in slices.              One pound of white sugar.
One-half gallon of brandy.          One and three-quarters
One-half gallon of Jamaica            quarts of water,
  rum.                              One pint of boiling milk.
Steep the lemons for twenty-four hours in the brandy and
rum; add the sugar, water and milk and, when well mixed,
strain through a jelly-bag.
    " Probably Henry William Herbert, an English novelist and writer on
sport, who came to New York in 1831. He wrote many novels and historical
works, translated the books of Alexander Dumas and Eugene Sue, and
produced many volumes on sport under the pseudonym of Frank Forestei.
He committed suicide in New York on May 17, 1858.
   24
                          PUNCH


     This punch may be bottled, and used afterward hot or
cold.
     Half the above quantity, or even less, may be made,
as this recipe is for a party of twenty.



                          • • •4 3 ■ • •
            ROCKY      MOUNTAIN            PUNCH

               For a mixed party of twenty

  From a recipe in the possession of Major James Foster
This delicious punch is compounded as follows:
Five bottles of champagne.        Six lemons, sliced.
One quart of Jamaica rum.         Sugar to taste.
One pint of maraschino.
    Mix the above ingredients in a large punch bowl, then
place in the center of the bowl a large square block of ice,
ornamented on top with rock candy, loaf sugar, sliced lem
ons or oranges, and fruits in season. This is a splendid punch
for New Year's Day.

                         ...44...

                   PUNCH        GRASSOT


The following recipe was given by M. Grassot, the eminent
  French comedian of the Palais Royal, to Mr. Howard
  Paul, the celebrated Entertainer, when performing in
  Paris.

One wineglass of brandy.           One quarter of a pint of
Five drops of curaqao.                water.
One drop of acetic acid.           The peel of a small lemon,
Two teaspoonfuls of simple           sliced.
  syrup.
                                                         25
           THE BON VIVANT'S COMPANION

Mix, serve up with ice, in large goblet, and if possible,
garnish the top with a slice of peach or apricot. In cold
weather this punch is admirable served hot.



                              ...45...
                EIGHT       GUARD        PUNCH

                       For a party of twenty

Three bottles oj champagne.           One bottle of sauterne.
One bottle oj pale sherry.            One pineapple, sliced.
One bottle oj Cognac.                 Four lemons, sliced.
Sweeten to taste, mix in a punch bowl, cool with a large
lump of ice, and serve immediately.



                             ...4 6...
     PHILADELPHIA FISH-HOUSE PUNCH
From a recipe in the possession of Charles G. Leland, Esq."
One-third pint oj lemon                  oj peach brandy, one-halj
  juice.                                 pint oj Cognac brandy,
Three-quarters pound oj                  and one-jourth pint oj
  white sugar.                           Jamaica rum.
One pint oj mixture, com- Two and one-halj pints oj
  posed oj one-jourth pint               cold water.
The above is generally sufficient for one person.
       This is sufficient for a mixed party of twenty, not twenty of the
Light Guard. — J. T.
       An American author whose fame rests chiefly on the Hans Breit-
man Ballads. He was editor of The Illustrated News in New York for
many years before the Civil War, and wrote many books. He also contributed
to Graham's Magazine, which published much of Edgar Allan Poe's work.
  26
                           PUNCH



                          ...47...
                 NON-SUCH         PUNCH


Six bottles of claret.          One-half pint of green tea.
Six bottles of soda water.      Juice of three lemons.
One bottle of brandy.           One-half of a pineapple cut
One bottle of sherry.             up in small pieces.
Sweeten with white sugar to taste. Strain a bottle immedi
ately. Keep for one month before using. This is a delicious
and safe drink for a mixed evening party. Cool before
serving.



                          ...48...
                 CANADIAN         PUNCH


Two quarts of rye whiskey.      One pineapple, sliced.
One pint of Jamaica rum.        Four quarts of water.
Six lemons, sliced.
Sweeten to taste, and ice.




                          ** *49'**
                  TIP     TOP   PUNCH

                      For a party of five

One bottle of champagne.        Two tablespoonfuls of paw-
Two bottles of soda water.         dered sugar.
One liqueur glass of cura-      One slice of pineapple, cut
  gao.                             up.

Put all the ingredients together in a small punch bowl, mix
well, ice and serve in champagne goblets.
                                                         27




                                                              n'fflrt- ttf'.   « uh/ A.
          THE BON VIVANT's COMPANION


                          ...50...
                     ARRACK PUNCH


In making 'rack punch, you ought to put two glasses (wine
glasses) of rum to three of arrack. A good deal of sugar is
required; but sweetening, after all, must be left to taste.
Lemons and limes are also matter of palate, but two lemons
are enough for the above quantity; put then an equal quan
tity of water — i.e., not five but six to allow for the lemon
juice, and you have a very pretty three tumblers of punch.


                          ...5 I - •"
                    ARRACK PUNCH

                        Another recipe

Steep in one quart of old Batavia arrack, six lemons cut in
thin slices, for six hours. At the end of that time the lemon
must be removed without squeezing. Dissolve one pound of
loaf sugar in one quart of boiling water, and add the hot
solution to the arrack. Let it stand to cool. This is a delightful
liqueur, and should be used as such.


                          ...52...
                     BIMBO PUNCH


Bimbo is made nearly in the same way as the above, except
that Cognac brandy is substituted for arrack.


                           • • • 5 3'• •
                       COLD PUNCH


Arrack, port wine and water, of each two pints, one pound
of loaf sugar, and the juice of eight lemons.
  28
                                PUNCH



                               • • • 5 4• ••
                    NUREMBURGH               PUNCH

                        For a party of fifteen
                From a recipe in the possession of
                  Hon. Gulian C. Verplanck

Take three-quarters of a poimd of loaf sugar, press upon it,
through muslin, the juice of two or more good-sized oranges;
add a little of the peel, cut very thin, pour upon a quart of
boiling water, the third part of that quantity of Batavia
arrack, and a bottle of hot, but not boiling, red or white
French wine — red is best. Stir together. This is excellent,
when cold, and will improve by age.

                               ... 5 5 • • •
                UNITED         SERVICE         PUNCH


Dissolve, in two pints of hot tea, three-quarters of a pound
of loaf sugar, having previously rubbed off, with a portion
of the sugar, the peel of four lemons; then add the juice of
eight lemons, and a pint of arrack.


                          RUBY        PUNCH


Dissolve, in three pints of hot tea, one pound of sugar;
add thereto the juice of six lemons, a pint of arrack, and a
pint of port wine.
     12 A noted New York politician before the Civil War. The Whigs
nominated him for Mayor in 1834, the first year that official was elected
by popular vote, but he was defeated by the Tammany candidate, Law
rence. The voting was in progress for three days, and there was much
serious rioting, which was finally quelled by the National Guard. Rioters
who attacked the office of the \^ig newspaper. The Courier & Enqtdrer,
at No. .i;8 Wall Street, carried a huge cross, after the fashion of the modern
Ku Klux Klan. It was burned in Broadway, near old Trinity Church.
                                                                       29
          THE BON VIVANT'S COMPANION


                          ...57...
                     ROYAL       PUNCH


One pint of hot green tea.        A thin slice of lemon.
One-half pint of brandy.          White sugar to taste.
One-half pint of Jamaica          One gill of warm calf's-foot
  rum.                               jelly.
One wineglass of curaqao.         To be drunk as hot as possi
One wineglass of arrack.             ble.
Juice of two limes.
This is a composition worthy of a king, and the materials
are admirably blended; the inebriating effects of the spirits
being deadened by the tea, whilst the jelly softens the mix
ture, and destroys the acrimony of the acid and sugar. The
whites of a couple of eggs well beat up to a froth, may be
substituted for the jelly where that is not at hand. If the
punch is too strong, add more green tea to taste.


                         ...58...
              CENTURY       CLUB PUNCH

Two parts old Santa Cruz rum; one part old Jamaica rum,
five parts water; lemons and sugar ad lib. This is a nice
punch.


                         ... 5 9 * * *
           DUKE     OF   NORFOLK PUNCH

In twenty quarts of French brandy put the peels of thirty
lemons and thirty oranges, pared so thin that not the least
of the white is left. Infuse twelve hours. Have ready thirty
quarts of cold water that has boiled; put to it fifteen pounds
of double-refined sugar; and when well mixed, pour it upon
  30
          Theodore Stewart's Barroom in John Street




—   j-'
                   y ....^.... ,.     ^v' '. ■
         I*, u   , I   • '■      '




                 ik-i ,, ,1
                              ''It-
         '01                  t. .




tr. .■
                         PUNCH


the brandy and peels, adding the juice of the oranges and of
twenty-four lemons; mix well, then strain through a very
fine hair-sieve, into a very clean barrel that has held high
spirits, and put in two quarts of new milk. Stir, and then
bung it close; let it stand six weeks in a warm cellar; bottle
the liquor for use, observing great care that the bottles are
perfectly clean and dry, and the corks of the best quality,
and well put in. This liquor will keep many years, and im
prove by age.



                         ...60...
             DUKE OF     NORFOLK PUNCH

                       Another recipe

Pare six lemons and three oranges very thin, squeeze the
juice into a large teapot, put to it two quarts of brandy,
one of white wine, and one of milk, and one pound and a
quarter of sugar. Let it be mixed, and then covered for
twenty-four hours, strain through a jelly-bag till clear, then
bottle it.



                         ...61 •••
                     QUEEN PUNCH

Put two ounces of cream of tartar, and the juice and parings
of two lemons,into a stone jar; pour on them seven quarts of
boiling water, stir and cover close. When cold, sweeten with
loaf sugar, and straining it, bottle and cork it tight. This
is a very pleasant liquor, and very wholesome; but from
 the latter consideration was at one time drunk in such quan
 tities as to become injurious. Add, in bottling, half a pint
 of rum to the whole quantity.
                                                         33




                                                                 ...1
          THE BON VIVANT'S COMPANION


                          ...6 2
                     GOTHIC PUNCH

                      For a party of ten
From a recipe in the possession of Bayard Taylor, Esq.^®
Four bottles of still Catawba; one bottle of claret, three
oranges, or one pineapple, ten tablespoonfuls of sugar. Let
this mixture stand in a very cold place, or in ice, for one
hour or more, then add one bottle of champagne.

                          ...63...
                    OXFORD        PUN CH


We have been favored by an English gentleman with the
following recipe for the concoction of punch as drunk by the
students of the University of Oxford:
     Rub the rinds of three fresh lemons with loaf sugar till
you have extracted a portion of the juice; cut the peel finely
off two lemons more, and two sweet oranges. Add six glasses
of calf's-foot jelly; let all be put into a large jug, and stir
well together. Pour in two quarts of water boiling hot, and
set the jug upon the hob for twenty minutes. Strain the
liquor through a fine sieve into a large bowl; put in a bottle
of capillaire," half a pint of sherry, a pint of Cognac
brandy, a pint of old Jamaica rum, and a quart of orange
shrub; stir well as you pour in the spirit. If you find it re
quires more sweetness, add sugar to your taste.

                          ...64...
                UNCLE         TOBY PUNCH

                              English                             •
Take two large fresh lemons with rough skins, quite ripe,
and some large lumps of double-refined sugar. Rub the sugar
       The American author.         See Recipes Nos. 65 and 66.
  34
                          PUNCH


over the lemons till it has absorbed all the yellow part of
the skins. Then put into the bowl these lumps, and as much
more as the juice of the lemons may be supposed to require;
for no certain weight can be mentioned, as the acidity of a
lemon cannot be known till tried, and therefore this must
be determined by the taste. Then squeeze the lemon juice
upon the sugar; and, with a bruiser press the sugar and the
juice particularly well together, for a great deal of the
richness and fine flavor of the punch depends on this rubbing
and mixing process being thoroughly performed. Then mix
this up very well with boiling water (soft water is best) till
the whole is rather cool. When this mixture (which is now
called the sherbet) is to your taste, take brandy and rum
in equal quantities, and put them to it, mixing the whole
well together again. The quantity of liquor must be accord
ing to your taste; two good lemons are generally enough to
make four quarts of punch, including a quart of liquor, with
half a pound of sugar; but this depends much on taste,
and on the strength of the spirit.
     As the pulp is disagreeable to some persons, the sherbet
may be strained before the liquor is put in. Some strain the
lemon before they put it to the sugar, which is improper, as,
when the pulp and sugar are well mixed together, it adds
much to the richness of the punch.
     When only rum is used, about half a pint of porter will
soften the punch; and even when both rum and brandy are
used, the porter gives a richness, and to some a very pleasant
flavor.



                      CAPILLAIRE

Put a wineglass of curagao into a pint of clarified syrup,
shake them well together, and pour it into the proper sized
bottles. A teaspoonful in a glass of fair water makes a
pleasant eau sacre.
                                                        35
         THE BON VIVANT'S COMPANION


                         ...66...
                        CAPILLAIRE

                        Another recipe

To one gallon of water add twenty-eight pounds of loaf
sugar; put both over the fire to simmer; when milk-warm
add the whites of four or five eggs, well beaten; as these
simmer with the syrup, skim it well; then pour it off, and
flavor it with orange flower water or bitter almonds, which
ever you prefer.

                         ...67...
               PUNCH      A   LA   ROMAINE

                   For a party of fifteen
Take the juice of ten lemons and two sweet oranges, dissolve
it in two pounds of powdered sugar, and add the thin rind
of an orange; run this through a sieve, and stir in by degrees
the whites of ten eggs, beaten into a froth. Put the bowl
with the mixture into an ice pail, let it freeze a little, then
stir briskly into it a bottle of wine and a bottle of rum.


                          ...68...
                        TEA PUNCH

Make an infusion of the best green tea, an ounce to a quart
of boiling water; put before the fire a silver or other metal
bowl, to become quite hot, and then put into it:
One-half pint      of    good One-quarter pound of lump
   brandy.                           sugar.
 One-half pint of rum.             The juice of a large lemon.
     Set these alight, and pour in the tea gradually, mixing
 it from time to time with a ladle; it will remain burning for
   36
                          PUNCH


some time, and is to be poured in that state into the glasses;
in order to increase the flavor, a few lumps of the sugar
should be rubbed over the lemon peel. This punch may be
made in a china bowl, but in that case the flame goes off
more rapidly.
                         ...6 9• • •
               WEST    INDIAN             PUNCH


This punch is made the same as brandy punch, but to each
glass add a clove or two of preserved ginger, and a little of
the syrup.
                         • • • 7 o .• •
                 BARBADOES PUNCH


To each glass of brandy punch, add a tablespoonful of guava
jelly.
                         • •. 7 ^ • • •
                YORKSHIRE PUNCH


Rub off the rind of three lemons on pieces of sugar, put the
sugar into a jug, and add to it the thin rind of one lemon
and an orange, and the juice of four oranges and of ten
lemons, with six glasses of dissolved calf's-foot jelly. Pour
two quarts of water over the whole, mixing the materials
well; then cover the jug, and keep it on a warm hearth for
twenty minutes. Then strain the mixture, and add a pint of
clarified syrup, half a pint each of rum and brandy, and a
bottle of good orange or lemon shrub.

                         ... 7 2 ...
                    APPLE PUN CH


Lay in a china bowl slices of apples and lemons alternately,
each layer being thickly strewed with powdered sugar. Pour
                                                        37




                                                                 ,   X
over the fruit, when the bowl is half filled, a bottle of claret;
cover, and let it stand six hours. Then pour it through a
muslin bag, and send it up immediately.




                         ALE    PUNCH


A QUART of mild ale, a glass of white wine, one of brandy,
one of capillaire, the juice of a lemon, a roll of the peel
pared thin, nutmeg grated on the top, and a bit of toasted
bread.


                           ... 74 • ••
                      CIDER      PUN CH


On the thin rind of half a lemon pour half a pint of sherry;
add a quarter of a pound of sugar, the juice of a lemon, a
little grated nutmeg, and a bottle of cider; mix it well, and,
if possible, place it on ice. Add, before sent in, a glass of
brandy, and a few pieces of cucumber rind.



                           ...7 5
                     NECTAR       PUNCH


Infuse the peel of fifteen lemons in a pint and a half of
rum for forty-eight hours, add two quarts of cold water
with three pints of rum, exclusive of the pint and a half;
also the juice of the lemons, with two quarts of boiling hot
milk, and one grated nutmeg; pour the milk on the above,
and let it stand twenty-four hours, covered close; add two
pounds and a half of loaf sugar; then strain it through a
flannel bag till quite fine, and bottle it for use. It is fit to use
as soon as bottled.
  38
An Orgy in a Private Club Room, 1868. Such goings on were not
    permitted in any oj Professor Thomas's establishments
                      , r "'>1.




               ^ yf'-- ' ^ '




' mt •'
 ^V'rp'rr
■'••■iM' 'v.
   Mfhf'.
                         PUNCH




                   ORANGE      P UNCH

       From The Bordeaux Wine and Liquor Guide
The juice of three or jour     Three-quarters of a pound of
  oranges.                       lump sugar.
The peel of one or two         Three and one-half pints of
  oranges.                       boiling water.
Infuse half an hour, strain, add one-half pint of porter;
three-fourths to one pint each, rum and brandy (or either
alone one and one-half to two pints), and add more warm
water and sugar, if desired weaker or sweeter. A liqueur
glass of curagao, noyau, or maraschino improves it. A good
lemon punch may be made by substituting lemons instead of
oranges.


 IMPERIAL RASPBERRY               WHISKEY PUNCH

Five ounces of sweet al-       Five ounces of bitter al
  monds.                          monds.

Infuse in boiling water. Then skin, and add one and one-
fourth ounces of powdered cinnamon, one-eighth ounce of
powdered cloves, and five ounces of plain syrup. Rub them
fine. Boil in seven gallons of water for five minutes; strain
and when cool add two gallons of whiskey and one gallon of
raspberry syrup.
                        ...78...
                 EL DORADO PUNCH

                    Use large bar glass
One pony of brandy.            One tablespoonful of pow-
One-half pony of Jamaica         dered sugar dissolved in a
  rum.                            little water.
One-half pony of bourbon.      A slice of lemon.
                                                        41
          THE BON VIVANT'S COMPANION

Fill the tumbler with fine ice, shake well and ornament with
berries or small pieces of orange. Serve with a straw.




                         •••79* * "
                  WEDDING        PUNCH


One-halj pint of pineapple      One-half pound of sugar.
  juice.                        One-half pint of boiling
One pint of lemon juice.           water.
One pint of lemon syrup.        Six grains of vanilla.
One bottle of claret or port    One grain of ambergris.
  wine.                         One pint of strong brandy.
Rub the vanilla and ambergris with the sugar in the brandy
thoroughly; let it stand in a corked bottle for a few hours,
shaking occasionally. Then add the lemon juice, pineapple
juice and wine; filter through flannel and, lastly, add the
syrup.




                         ••.S o • • •
                  MEDFORD        PUNCH

                    Use large bar glass
One tablespoonful of pow        One pony glass of Jamaica
  dered white sugar dis            rum.

  solved in a little water.      Two or three dashes of
One and one-half glass of         lemon juice.
  Medford rum.                  One slice of orange {cut in
                                   quarters').
Fill the tumbler with ice, shake well, and dress the
top with sliced lime and berries in season. Serve with a
straw.
  42
                              PUNCH




                             ...8 I ...

                       MARASCHINO       PUNCH

                         Use large bar glass

     One teaspoonjul of pow          One-half pony glass of ma
       dered sugar, dissolved in a     raschino.
       little water.                 The juice of half a small
     One wineglass of brandy.         lemon.
     Two dashes of arrack.
     Fill the tumbler with shaved ice, shake well, ornament with
     fruit and berries in season, and serve with a straw.




LI




                                                          43
      Prepared Punch and Punch Essences

A GLASS of punch, with all the et ceteras, is an excellent
thing; the main difficulty about it is that, outside of a well-
appointed barroom, the necessary ingredients are not usually
found ready to hand at the moment when they are indispen
sable; and, even under the most favorable circumstances, it
is not everyone that knows the precise proportions and happy
blending of flavors that constitute a perfect glass of punch.
     The enlightenment of the present day is full of short
cuts to comfort, and all the impediments in the way of
enjoying a social glass of punch, compounded according to
the latest discoveries of the art, are obviated by having a
bottle of the desired nectar in a concentrated essence form,
ready brewed in exact proportions, and nothing needed but
a moderate supply of hot or cold water, or ice, to adjust it
to the correct strength and temperature, and a glass to re
ceive the welcome libation.
    The following recipes for concocting the latest and most
improved varieties of punch are intended for bottling for
ready use.

                          ...82...

        ESSENCE OF CLARET "WINE PUNCH
                     FOR    BOTTLING

 Five gallons of claret wine. Three gallons of plain syrup.
 Two and one-half gallons of One pint of tincture of lemon
   spirits.                        peel.
   44
  PREPARED PUNCH                 AND PUNCH           ESSENCES


One-halj pint of raspberry           One and one-half ounce of
  juice.                                tincture of cloves.
One ounce of tartaric acid.          One and one-half ounce of
                                       tincture of cinnamon.^

First dissolve the tartaric acid in a small portion of the
spirits. Mix the tinctures with the remainder of the spirits.
Pour the two mixtures together, and add the remaining ingre
dients.

                              ... 83 ...
  essence of           kirschwasser wine punch
                        FOR    BOTTLING



Take seven gallons of plain          Five gallons of kirschwas-
   syrup.                               ser."
One and one-half gallons of
  lemon juice.

Mix them thoroughly and strain through Canton flannel.

                              ...84...
          essence of ST. DOMINGO PUNCH
                        FOR     BOTTLING


Take ten gallons of arrack. Five drops of oil of orange.
Six gallons of plain syrup.           Five drops of oil of cinna-
Two ounces of tartaric acid.             mon.
Five drops of oil of cloves.          Two ounces of alcohol.
Ten drops of oil of lemon.
First dissolve the tartaric acid in a portion of the arrack,
and add it to the remainder. Next cut the oils in the alcohol,
add this to the Arrack, and lastly add the syrup.
      1 See Recipes Nos. 286-291 for the tinctures.
      2 An alcoholic liquor produced by distilling the fermented juice of
 the small black cherry. The flavor is bitter almond, from the crushed
 stones It is made chiefly in Switzerland and southern Germany.
                                                                   45
          THE BON VIVANT's COMPANION


                              ...85...
            GIN    PUNCH        FOR    BOTTLING


Following General Ford's plan, as already described, for
making sherbet, add good gin, in the proper proportions be
fore prescribed; this, bottled and kept in a cool cellar or
cistern, will be found an economical and excellent summer
drink.
                              ...86...

ESSENCE        OF       BOURBON        WHISKEY          PUNCH
                        FOR    BOTTLING


Four and one-halj gallons          One-half pint tincture of or-
  Bourbon whiskey.                    ange peel.
Three gallons of plain syrup.      Three ounces tincture of all-
One-half pint tincture of             spice.
  lemon peel.                     Five dessertspoonfuls tinc
                                      ture of cloves.
Mix the tinctures thoroughly with the whiskey, and then
add the syrup.
       The essence of rum punch may be made by substitut
ing Jamaica or Santa Cruz rum for the whiskey.

                              ...87...
           ESSENCE        OF    BRANDY PUNCH
                        FOR    BOTTLING


Five     gallons   of    strong    One-half pint tincture of OT^
  brandy.                            ange peel.
Three gallons of plain syrup.      Three ounces tincture of all-
One-half pint tincture of            spice.
  lemon peel.                     One-half wineglass tincture
                                      of cloves.
Mix the tinctures with the brandy, and add the syrup.
  46
  PREPARED PUNCH             AND PUNCH        ESSENCES



                          ...88 ...
         ESSENCE        OF    ARRACK      PUNCH

                     FOR    BOTTLING



One and one-halj gallon of        Three gallons of plain syrup.
  Batavia arrack.                 One-half pint of tincture of
Three gallons of spirits.           lemon peel.
Mix all together, and it is ready for immediate use.




              CALIFORNIA          MILK PUNCH

                     FOR     BOTTLING


The juice of four lemons.         Twenty coriander seeds.
The rind of two lemons.           One small stick of cinnamon.
One-half pound of white su-       One pint of brandy,
  gar, dissolved in just suffi-   One pint of Jamaica rum.
  cient hot water.                One gill of Batavia arrack.
One pineapple, peeled, sliced     One cup of strong green tea.
  and pounded.                    One quart of boiling water.
Six cloves.                       One quart of hot milk.
Put all the materials in a clean demijohn, the boiling water
to be added last; cork this down to prevent evaporation,
and allow the ingredients to steep for at least six hours; then
add the hot milk and the juice of two more lemons; mix,
and filter through a jelly-bag; and when the punch has
passed bright, put it away in tight corked bottles.
     This punch is intended to be iced for drinking.
     If intended for present use filtering is not necessary.




                                                           47
                            Cocktails

    HE cocktail is a modern invention, and is generally used
on fishing and other sporting parties, although some patients
insist that it is good in the morning as a tonic. {Editor's
note — The cocktail shaker had not been invented when
Professor Thomas wrote, hence he advises the employment
of small and large bar glasses. The modern student who
may attempt to duplicate the Professor's experiments will
perhaps prefer to use the shaker.')


                           ...90...
                   BOTTLE       COCKTAIL


To make a splendid bottle of brandy cocktail, use the fol
lowing ingredients:
Two-thirds brandy.                One wineglass of gum syrup.
One-third water.                 ■ One-half pony glass of cura-
One pony glass of bitters.^          gao.
The author has always used this recipe in compounding the
above beverage for connoisseurs. Whiskey and gin cocktails,
in bottles, may be made by using the above recipe, and sub
stituting those liquors instead of brandy.
     1 Professor Thomas modestly recommends such famous bitters as
Boker's, Bogart's, Stoughton's and Angostura, although many sound
drinkers of the period regarded his own preparation, Jerry Thomas's
Own Bitters, as a very superior product.
  48
Miss Alice Dunning, a Popular Variety Actress of the Seventies
i:'
                       COCKTAILS



                         ...91...
                 BRANDY       COCKTAIL

                    Use small bar glass

Three or jour dashes of gum     One wineglass of brandy.
  syrup.                        One or two dashes of cura-
Two or three dashes of bit-       gao.
  ters.

Squeeze lemon peel; fill one-third full of ice, and stir with
a spoon.

                         ...92...

             FANCY     BRANDY       COCKTAIL

                     Use small bar glass

This drink is made the same as the brandy cocktail, except
that it is strained in a fancy wineglass, and a piece of lemon
peel thrown on top, and the edge of the glass moistened
with lemon.

                         ...93.--
           IMPROVED      BRANDY         COCKTAIL

                   Use ordinary bar glass

Two dashes of bitters.          One small piece of the yellow
Three dashes of gum syrup.        rind of a lemon, twisted to
Two dashes of maraschino.         express the oil.
One dash of absinthe.           One small wineglass of
                                   brandy.

Fill glass one-third full of shaved ice, shake well, and strain
into a fancy cocktail glass, put the lemon peel in the glass
and serve.
     The flavor is improved by moistening the edge of the
cocktail glass with a piece of lemon.
                                                         51
           THE BON VIVANT'S COMPANION


                           ...94...
                WHISKEY COCKTAlt

                    Use small bar glass

 Three or jour dashes of gum      One wineglass of whiskey,
   syrup.                           and a piece of lemon peel.
 Two dashes of bitters.
Fill one-third full of fine ice; shake and strain in a fancy
red wineglass.
                          ...95...
          improved        whiskey        cocktail


Prepared in the same manner as the Improved Brandy
Cocktail, by substituting Bourbon or rye whiskey for the
brandy.
                          ...96...
                    GIN     COCKTAIL

                    Use small bar glass

Three or jour dashes oj gum      One or two dashes oj cura-
  syrup.                            qao.
Two dashes oj hitters.           One small piece oj lemon
One wineglass oj gin.              peel.
Fill one-third full of fine ice, shake well, and strain in a
glass.
                          ...9 7 • ■ •
              FANCY       GIN     COCKTAIL

                   Use small bar glass

This drink is made the same as the gin cocktail, except that
it is strained in a fancy wineglass and a piece of lemon
peel thrown on top, and the edge of the glass moistened with
lemon.
  52
                      COCKTAILS



                        ...98...
             IMPROVED      GIN     COCKTAIL


Made the same way as the Improved Brandy Cocktail sub
stituting Holland or Old Tom gin for the brandy.

                        ••• 9 9 • • •
               SARATOGA        COCKTAIL

                   Use small bar glass

Two dashes of Angostura         One pony of whiskey.
  bitters.                      One pony of vermouth.
One pony of brandy.
Shake up well with two small lumps of ice; strain into a
claret glass, and serve with a quarter of a slice of lemon.

                       ...100...

               CHAMPAGNE           COCKTAIL

                        Per glass

One-half teaspoonful of su-     One or two dashes of bitters.
                                One piece of lemon peel.

Fill tumbler one-third full of broken ice, and fill balance
with wine. Shake well and serve.
    Use one bottle of champagne to every six large glasses.

                       ... I o I ...

              JAPANESE COCKTAIL
                   Use small bar glass

One tablespoonful of orgeat    One wineglass of brandy.
  syrup.                        One or two pieces of lemon
One-half teaspoonful of bit-      peel,
  ters.
                                                       S3
          THE BON VTVANT'S COMPANION

Fill the tumbler one-third with ice, and stir well with a
spoon.



                           ... I o 2...

                   JERSEY      COCKTAIL

                       Use small bar glass

One teaspoonjul of sugar.         Two dashes of bitters.
Fhl tumbler with cider, and mix well, with lemon peel on
top,



                          ...103...
                 ABSINTHE        COCKTAIL

                       Use small bar glass

Two dashes of anisette.           One pony glass of absinthe.
One dash of bitters.
Pour about one wineglass of water into the tumbler in a
small stream from the ice pitcher, or preferably from an
absinthe glass. Shake up very thoroughly with ice, and
strain into a claret glass.




          FANCY VERMOUTH                  COCKTAIL

                       Use small bar glass

Two dashes of bitters.           One wineglass of vermouth.
Two dashes of maraschino.        One-quarter slice of lemon.
Fill the glass one-quarter full of shaved ice, shake well and
strain into a cocktail glass; garnish with the lemon.
  54
r




                               COCKTAILS



                               ...105...
                   MARTINEZ         COCKTAIL^

                         Use small bar glass

    One dash of bitters.             One wineglass of vermouth.
    Two dashes of maraschino.        Two small lumps of ice.
    One pony of Old Tom gin.
    Shake up thoroughly, and strain into a large cocktail glass.
    Put a quarter of a slice of lemon in the glass, and serve. If
    the guest prefers it very sweet add two dashes of gum syrup.


                               • •.106...
                        SODA     CO C KTAIL

                         Use large soda glass

    One teaspoonful of pow-          One bottle of plain soda.
      dered white sugar.             Three or four small lumps
    Two dashes of bitters.              of ice.
    Pour the soda water upon the other ingredients, stir well
    with a spoon, then remove the ice, and serve.




               MORNING          GLORY    COCKTAIL

                        Use medium bar glass

    Three dashes of gum syrup.      One pony of whiskey.
    Two dashes of curagao.          One piece of lemon peel.
    Two dashes of bitters.            twisted to express the oil.
    One dash of absinthe.           Two small pieces of ice.
    One pony of brandy.
       2 Now called Martini.

                                                           55
         THE BON VIVANT'S COMPANION

Stir thoroughly and remove the ice. Fill the glass with
Seltzer water or plain soda, and stir with a teaspoon having
a little sugar in it.



                         ... I o 8...
                  COFFEE      COCKTAIL

                    Use a large bar glass

One teaspoonjul powdered         One large wineglass of port
  white sugar.                     wine.
One fresh egg.                   One pony of brandy.
                                 Two or three lumps of ice.
Break the egg into the glass, put in the sugar, and lastly the
port wine, brandy and ice. Shake up very thoroughly and
strain into a medium bar goblet. Grate a little nutmeg on
top before serving.
     The name of this drink is a misnomer, as coffee and
bitters are not to be found among its ingredients, but it looks
like coffee when it has been properly concocted, hence prob
ably its name.




              MANHATTAN           COCKTAIT

                    Use small bar glass

Two dashes of curagao or        One wineglass of vermouth.
  maraschino.                    Three dashes of bitters.
One pony of rye whiskey.         Two small lumps of ice.
Shake up well, and strain into a claret glass. Put a quarter
of a slice of lemon in the glass and serve. If the customer
prefers it very sweet use also two dashes of gum syrup.
  56
                       COCKTAILS



                        ... I I O...

               VERMOUTH         COCKTAIL

                    Use small bar glass

Two dashes of hitters.          One-quarter slice of lemon.
One wineglass of vermouth.
Shake the bitters and vermouth with a small lump of ice,
strain in a cocktail glass in which the lemon has been placed.
If the customer prefers it very sweet, add two dashes of gum
syrup.




                                                        57
       Prepared Cocktailsfor Bottling
                        ...III...

       BRANDY     COCKTAIL        FOR    BOTTLING

Five   gallons   of   strong    One quart of bitters.
  brandy.                       One quart of gum syrup.
Two gallons of water.           One bottle of curagao.
Mix thoroughly, and filter through Canton flannel.



                            112

       BRANDY COCKTAIL FOR BOTTLING

                      Another recipe

Take five gallons of spirits    One ounce of tincture of
  {70 per cent).                  gentian.
Two gallons of water.           Two ounces of tincture of or
One quart of gum syrup.           ange peel.
One-fourth pint of essence of   One-fourth ounce of tinc
  Cognac.                         ture of cardamoms.
One ounce of tincture of        One-half ounce of tincture of
  cloves.                         licorice root.

Mix the essence and tinctures with a portion of the spirits;
add the remainder of the ingredients, and color with a suffi-
  58
              Dennis Sullivan and His Saloon at Grand and Clinton Streets




II   'f   I
                                               I ■
                                               "-i K. "




r- 3Pnn   ■


  V iTO . ."'




                " '•' 'I' ' ' ■
                M'X' ■
                mf-


                        r r        ■ .
                        mC ' ' . - . ■
                         ' Vi''' , ■ '   ' '
                        1f           ■
                COCKTAILS, FOR BOTTLING

cient quantity of Solferino and caramel ^ (in equal parts)
to give the desired color.


                              ...113...

           GIN      COCKTAIL           FOR     BOTTLING

Five gallons of gin.                    Seven ounces of tincture of
Two gallons of water.                      gentian.
One quart of gum syrup.                 One-half ounce of tincture
Two ounces of tincture of or               of cardamoms.
   ange peel.                           One-half ounce of tincture of
                                           lemon peel.
Mix them together, and give the desired color with Solferino
and caramel, in equal proportions.

                              ...114...

        bourbon cocktail for bottling

Five gallons of Bourbon.                One ounce of tincture of
Two gallons of water.                     lemon peel.
One quart of gum syrup.                 One ounce of tincture of
Two ounces of tincture of                 gentian.
   orange peel.                         One-half ounce of tincture of
                                           cardamoms.

Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and color with Solferino
and caramel, in equal proportions.
      1 To make solferino and caramel see Recipes Nos. 281 and 282.
Solferino is Fuschsine, a dyestuff produced by oxidation of a mixture of
analines and toluidines. It is a brilliant magenta, and is so called from
Solferino, Italy, scene of a battle in i8S9, about the time of its discovery.
The name is generally applied to the color and not to the dyestuff.




                                                                      61
ht. •'
'VIV




i:.y

                                   Crusta

         The crusta is an improvement on the cocktail, and is
         said to have been invented by Santina, a celebrated Spanish
         caterer.



                                 ...IIS...
                            BRANDY       CRUSTA

                             Use small bar glass

         Crusta is made the same as a fancy cocktail, with a little
         lemon juice and a small lump of ice added. First, mix the
         ingredients in a small tumbler, then take a fancy red wine
         glass, rub a sliced lemon around the rim of the same, and
         dip it in pulverized white sugar, so that the sugar will adhere
         to the edge of the glass. Pare half a lemon the same as you
         would an apple (all in one piece) so that the paring will fit
         in the wineglass, and strain the crusta from the tumbler into
         it. Then smile.


                                 ... I I 6...
                           WHISKEY        CRUSTA

                              Use small bar glass
         The whiskey crusta is made the same as the brandy crusta,
         using whiskey instead of brandy.
           62
m


                             CRUSTA



                           ...117...

                         GIN    CRUSTA

                        Use small bar glass

    Gin crusta is made like the brandy crusta, using gin instead
    of brandy.




                                                           63
■S '■




                             Fancy Drinks

        The jo owing miscellaneous collection of fancy bever
        ages embraces a number of French, Spanish, English, Rus
        sian, Italian,   erman and American recipes. Many of them
        are rather troublesome to prepare, and some of them, which
        we have tried, have not yielded the satisfaction expected or
        desired.


                                   . ..II    ...
                            PO SSE l'amour

                                 se a sherry glass

        One-half    glass   of   mara       Sufficient vanilla cordial to
          schino.                             surround the egg.
        Yolk of one egg.                    One tablespoonful of fine old
                                              brandy.
        First, pour in the maraschino, then introduce the yolk with
        a spoon, without disturbing the maraschino, next carefully
        surround the egg with vanilla cordial, and lastly put the
        brandy on top.
            In making a pousse of any kind the greatest care should
        be observed to keep all the ingredients composing it sepa
        rate. This may best be accomplished by pouring the different
        materials from a sherry wine glass.
             It re uires a steady hand and careful manipulation
        to succeed in making a perfect pousse.
                    FANCY     DRINKS



                        ...I 19...

             SANTINA's POUSSE-CAFE
                    Use small wineglass

This delicious drink is from a recipe by Santina, proprietor
of "Santina's Saloon," a celebrated Spanish cafe, in New
Orleans.

One-third brandy {Cognac).     One-third curagao.
One-third maraschino.

Mix well.



                        ...120...

              PARISIAN      POUSSE-CAFE

                   Use small wineglass

Two-fifths curagao.            One-fifth chartreuse.
Two-fifths kirschwasser.
This is a celebrated Parisian drink.




               FAIVRE'S POUSSE-CAFE

                    Use small wineglass

One-third Parisian pousse       One-third kirschwasser.
  cafS {as above).              One-third curagao.
This celebrated drink is from the recipe of M. Faivre, a
popular proprietor of a "French Saloon" in New York.


                                                       65
         THE BON        VIVANT'S COMPANION
                                                               '%
                                                                M
                                             —                 'I
                          ...122...

              SARATOGA        POUSSE-CAFE

                      Use small wineglass

One-fifth curagao.               Two-fifths fine old brandy.
One-fifth benedictine.           One teaspoonful of vanilla
One-fifth raspberry syrup.         cordial on top.
In making this pousse, the same precautions must be ob
served as directed in the preceding recipes.

                         ...123...
             BRANDY         CHAMPERELLE

                     Use small wineglass

One-third brandy.                One-third curagao.
One-third bitters.

This is a delicious French cafe drink.


                         ...124...

                     BRANDY     SCAFFA

                        Use wineglass
One-half brandy.                Two dashes of bitters.
One-half maraschino.



        CLARET AND CHAMPAGNE CUP,

                      A LA BRUNOW

                     For a party of twenty
The following claret and champagne cup ought, from its
excellence, to be called the Nectar of the Czar, as it is so
  66
                           FANCY        DRINKS


highly appreciated in Russia, where for many years it has
enjoyed a high reputation amongst the aristocracy of the
Muscovite empire. Proportions:

Three bottles of claret.                  Some sprigs of green balm,
Two-thirds pint of curagao.                  and of borage, and a small
One pint of sherry.                          piece of rind of cucum-
One-half pint of brandy.                     ber.
Two wineglasses of ratafia ^              Two       bottles    of    German
  of raspberries.                           seltzer water.
Three oranges and one lem-                Three bottles of soda water,
  on, cut in slices.
Stir this together, and sweeten with capillaire or pounded
sugar, until it ferments; let it stand one hour, strain it, and
ice it well; it is then fit for use. Serve in small glasses.
      The same for champagne cup: champagne instead of
claret; noyau instead of ratafia.
      This quantity is for an evening party of twenty per
sons. For a smaller number reduce the proportions.



                               ...I 26...
                      BALAKLAVA             NECTAR


                              Soyer's Recipe
                        For a party of fifteen

Thinly peel the rind of half a lemon, shred it fine, and put
it in a punch bowl; add two tablespoonfuls of crushed sugar,
and the juice of two lemons, the half of a small cucumber
sliced thin, with the peel on; toss it up several times, then
     1 Every liqueur made by infusion is called ratafia. That is, when
the spirit is made to imbibe thoroughly the aromatic flavor and color of the
fruit steeped in it; when this has taken place, the liqueur is drawn off.
Sugar is added, and it is then filtered and bottled. — J. T. In modern
usage, the word refers specifically to a liqueur of this character from Dantzig.
                                                                         67
         THE BON VIVANT'S COMPANION

add two bottles of soda water, two of claret, one of cham
pagne, stir well together, and serve.

                       ...127,..
         CRIMEAN CUP, A LA MARMORA

          From a recipe by the celebrated Soyer
                   For a party of thirty

One quart ojsyrup 0} orgeat.   Two bottles of champagne.
One pint oj Cognac brandy.     Two bottles oj soda water.
One-halj pint oj maraschino.   Six ounces oj sugar.
One-halj pint oj Jamaica       Four middling-sized lemons,
  rum.


Thinly peel the lemons, and place the rind in a bowl with
the sugar, macerate them well for a minute or two, in order
to extract the flavor from the lemon. Next squeeze the juice
of the lemons upon this, add two bottles of soda water, and
stir well till the sugar is dissolved; pour in the syrup of
orgeat, and whip the mixture well with an egg-whisk, in order
to whiten the composition. Then add the brandy, rum and
maraschino, strain the whole into the punch bowl, and just
before serving add the champagne, which should be well
iced. While adding the champagne, stir well with the ladle;
this will render the cup creamy and mellow.
    Half the quantity given here, or even less, may be
made; this recipe being for a party of thirty.

                        ...128...
         CRIMEAN CUP, A LA WYNDHAM
                    For a party of five
Thinly peel the rind of half an orange, put it into a bowl,
with a tablespoonful of crushed sugar, and macerate with
the ladle for a minute; then add one large wineglass of
  68
           Mnvt'S)




Billy Tracy of the Bank Exchange
iv.
'i
iVi    .
      '''
  i'




te ' '




            ',■ ■ i.S'   '

                             .At.
                     FANCY     DRINKS


maraschino, half one of Cognac, half one of curaqao. Mix
well together, pour in two bottles of soda water, and one of
champagne, during which time work it up and down with
the punch ladle, and it is ready.
     Half a pound of pure ice is a great improvement.

                        ...129...

                      CLARET       CUP


Bott a bottle of thin claret; add half a pint of cold water, a
tablespoonful of finely powdered sugar, and a teaspoonful
of cinnamon, cloves, and allspice, finely powdered and
mixed together. Mix all well together, then add half the
thin rind of a small lemon. This is a delicious summer bev
erage for evening parties.



                      PORTER       CUP


Mix in a tankard or covered jug a bottle of porter, and an
equal quantity of table ale; pour in a glass of brandy, a
dessert-spoonful of syrup of ginger, add three or four lumps
of sugar, and half a nutmeg grated; cover it down, and ex
pose it to the cold for half an hour; just before sending it to
table, stir in a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Add the
fresh cut rind of a cucumber.

                         ...131...

      CHAMPAGNE, HOCK OR CHABLIS CUP

                       A la Goodriche

Dissolve four or five lumps of sugar in a quarter of a pint
of boiling water, with a little very thin lemon peel; let it
stand a quarter of an hour; add one bottle of the above
wines, and a sprig of verbena, a small glass of sherry; half
                                                         71
          THE BON VIVANT'S COMPANION

a pint of water. Mix well, and let stand half an hour; strain,
and ice it well.



                     CIDER     NE CTAR

                   A la Harold Littledale

One quart of cider.               One glass of sherry.
One bottle of soda water.         One small glass of brandy.
Juice of half a lemon, peel of quarter of a lemon; sugar and
nutmeg to taste; a sprig of verbena. Flavor it to taste with
extract of pineapple. Strain, and ice it all well. This is a de
licious beverage, and only requires to be tasted to be appre
ciated.


                        ... I 3 3 •• •
                   BOTTLED        VELVET

                    A la Sir John Bayley
A BOTTLE of Moselle, half a pint of sherry, the peel of a
lemon, not too much, so as to have the flavor predominate;
two tablespoonfuls of sugar; add a sprig of verbena; all
must be well mixed, and then strained and iced.


                        • ••134'**
                   TOM      AND    J ERRY

               Use punch bowl for the mixture
Five pounds of sugar.             One and one-half teaspoon-
Twelve eggs.                        ful of ground cinnamon.
One-half small glass of Ja- One-half teaspoonful ground
  maica rum.                        cloves.
                                  One-half teaspoonful ground
                                    allspice.
  72
                           FANCY    DRINKS


Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and the yolks
until they are as thin as water, then mix together and add
the spice and rum, thicken with sugar until the mixture at
tains the consistency of a light batter.
     To deal out Tom and Jerry to customers:
     Take a small bar glass, and to one tablespoonful of the
above mixture, add one wineglass of brandy, and fill the
glass with boiling water; grate a little nutmeg on top.
     Adepts at the bar, in serving Tom and Jerry, sometimes
adopt a mixture of one-half brandy, one-fourth Jamaica
rum, and one-fourth Santa Cruz rum, instead of brandy
plain. This compound is usually mixed and kept in a bottle,
and a wineglassful is used to each tumbler of Tom and
Jerry.
     N.B. A teaspoonful of cream of tartar, or about as much
carbonate of soda as you can get on a dime, will prevent the
sugar from settling to the bottom of the mixture.
    This drink is sometimes called Copenhagen, and some
times Jerry Thomas.


                            ...13 5 ...                             'I
                     WHITE tiger's milk

               From a recipe in the possession of
                 Thomas Dunn English, Esq.^
One-halj gill of applejack.          Sweeten with white sugar
One-half      gill    of    peach       to taste.
  brandy.                            The white of an egg beaten
One-half teaspoonful of aro-            to a stiff foam.
  matic tincture.                    One quart of pure milk.
    2 The author of the famous song, Ben Bolt, which was first pub
lished in 1843 in N. P. Willis's magazine, The New York Mirror. Dr.
English also wrote a melody for the verses, and Willis republished both
words and music in 1848. But meanwhile, in 1846, an old German air had
been fitted to the poem by Nelson Kneass, manager of the Pittsburg
                                                                 73
          THE BON        VIV ant's COMPANION

Pour in the mixed liquors to the milk, stirring all the while
till it is well mixed, then sprinkle with nutmeg.
     The above recipe is sufficient to make a full quart of
"white tiger's milk"; if more is wanted, you can increase
the above proportions. If you want to prepare this beverage
for a party of twenty, use one gallon of milk to one pint of
applejack, etc.
                           ...136...
                        WHITE        LION

                       Use small bar glass

One and one-halj teaspoon-           One     wineglass     of Santa
  ful of pulverized white su-           Cruz rum.
  gar.                               One-half teaspoonful of cu-
One-half a lime {squeeze out            ragao.
  the juice and put the rind         One-half      teaspoonful       of
  in the glass).                        raspberry syrup.
Mix well, ornament with berries in season, and cool with
shaved ice.

                            ... 13 7 • ■ •
                             bishop

                            A la Prusse

A FAVORITE beverage, made with claret or port. It is pre
pared as follows: roast four good-sized bitter oranges till
they are of a pale-brown color, lay them in a tureen, and
put over them half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, and three
glasses of claret; place the cover on the tureen and let it
stand till the next day. When required for use, put the
tureen into a pan of boiling water, press the oranges with a
Theater, where the song as we now know it was first sung by an English
actor named Hunt. Dr. English wrote many other songs and several books,
and was a politician of considerable local renown. He studied medicine at
the University of Pennsylvania.
   74
                       FANCY      DRINKS


spoon, and run the juice through a sieve; then boil the re
mainder of the bottle of claret, taking care that it does not
burn; add it to the strained juice, and serve it warm in
glasses. Port wine will answer the purpose as well as claret.
Bishop is sometimes made with the above materials, substi
tuting lemons instead of oranges, but this is not often done
when claret is used.
                          ...138...
                            BI SHOP

                       Use large soda glass
One teaspoonjul of paw-            Two thin slices of lemon,
  dered white sugar dis-           Two dashes of Jamaica rum.
  solved in one wineglass of       Two or three small lumps of
  water.                              ice.

Fild the glass with claret or red Burgundy, shake up well,
and remove the ice before serving.

                          ...139**'
                   ENGLIS H         BISHOP
                                                              ' I

Stick an orange full of cloves, and roast it before a fire.
When brown enough, cut it in quarters, and pour over it a
quart of hot port wine, add sugar to the taste, let the mixture
simmer for half an hour.

                          • • • X ^ O • ••

                        ARCHBXSH OP


The same as Bishop, substituting claret for the port.

                          ...141...

                          CARDINAL


Same as above, substituting champagne for claret.
                                                         75
         THE BON VIVANT'S COMPANION


                         ••• 1/^2     •

                           POPE


Same as above, substituting Burgundy for champagne.



               PROTESTANT            BISHOP


Foiw tablespoonjuls oj white     One bottle of claret.
  sugar.                         Four tablespoons of Santa
Two tumblers of water.             Cruz or Jamaica.
One lemon, in slices.            Ice.


                         ••• I      •••

                   KNICKERBOCKER

                     Use small bar glass

One-half a lime, or lemon;       One wineglass Santa Cruz
  squeeze out the juice, and        rum.

  put the rind and juice in      One-half teaspoonful of cu-
  the glass.                        ragao.
Two teaspoonfujs of rasp
  berry syrup.
Cool with shaved ice; shake up well, and ornament with
berries in season. If this is not sweet enough, put in a little
more raspberry syrup.


                     RUMPUSTXAN


This is the singular name bestowed upon a drink very much
in vogue with English sportsmen, after their return from
a day's shooting, and is concocted thus:
  76
                     FANCY     DRINKS



     The yolks of a dozen eggs are well whisked up, and
put into a quart of strong beer; to this is added a pint of
gin; a bottle of sherry is put into a saucepan, with a stick of
cinnamon, a nutmeg grated, a dozen large lumps of sugar,
and the rind of a lemon peeled very thin; when the wine
boils, it is poured upon the gin and beer, and the whole
drunk hot.


                        ... I 4 6 • • •
                  ENGLISH CURAgAO

Cut away the peel of oranges very thin, until you have ob
tained half a dozen ounces of it; put these in a quart bottle,
and then pour in a pint of genuine whiskey. Cork the bottle
down tightly, and let the rind remain infused for ten or
twelve days, giving the bottle a good shake as often as you
have an opportunity for so doing; at the end of this period,
take out the orange peel, and fill the bottle with clarified
syrup, shake it well with the spirit, and let it remain for
three days. Pour a teacupful of the liqueur into a mortar, and
beat up a drachm of powdered alum, and an equal quantity
of carbonate of potash; pour this, when well mixed, into
the bottle, shake it well, and in a week you will find the
curagao perfectly transparent, and equal in flavor to that
imported from Malines, or any other place in the universe.




                ITALIAN       LEMONADE


Pare and press two dozen lemons; pour the juice on the
peels, and let it remain on them all night; in the morning
add two pounds of loaf sugar, a quart of good sherry, and
three quarts of boiling water. Mix well, add a quart of boil
ing milk, and strain it through a jelly bag till dear.
                                                         77
         THE BON VIVANT'S COMPANION


                        ...148...
                   QUINCE      LIQUEUR

Two quarts of quince juice.      Twelve ounces of bitter al
Four quarts of Cognac              monds, bruised.
  brandy.                        One pound of coriander
Two and one-half pounds of          seeds.
  white sugar.                   Thirty-six cloves.
Grate a sufficient number of quinces to make two quarts of
juice, and squeeze them through a jelly bag. Mix the ingre
dients all together, and put them in a demijohn, and shake
them well every day for ten days. Then strain the liquid
through a jelly bag till it is perfectly clear, and bottle for
use. This is a delightful liqueur, and can be relied upon, as
it is from a recipe in the possession of a lady who is famous
for concocting delicious potations.

                        ... z 4 9 ■ * ■
                WEST INDIA        COUPEREE

                    Use large soda glass
One and one-half pony glass Fill the glass one-third full
  of brandy.                        of vanilla ice cream.
One pony glass maraschino
  or curagao.

Mix thoroughly, and fill the glass nearly full with plain,
soda. Grate a little nutmeg on top, and serve.


                        SLEEPER


One gill of old rum.             Six cloves.
One ounce of sugar.              Six coriander seeds.
Two fresh raw eggs.              One lemon.
One-half pint of water.
  78
                                             h




A Roui Up to His Nefarious Tricks. Professor Thomas once hit a
     scoundrel of this type on the head with a punch bowl
"1-1" ■■ '■i .
Si''
                        FANCY       DRINKS


Boil the cloves and coriander, with a bit of cinnamon in the
water; mix together the rum and sugar, the yolks of the eggs
and the juice of half the lemon; whisk them all together, and
strain into a tumbler.



                             ...I 5 I ...
                          BADMINTON®

Peel half of a middle-sized cucumber, and put it into a
silver cup, with four ounces of powdered sugar, a little nut
meg,and a bottle of claret. When the sugar is thoroughly dis
solved, pour in a bottle of soda water, and it is fit for use.



                             ...152...
                          LOCOMOTIVE

                         Use large bar glass

One tablespoonjul of genu-             Three dashes of curaqao.
  ine honey.                           One claret glass of red Bur-
The yolk of a fresh raw egg.              gundy.
Heat the wine in a thoroughly clean saucepan until it boils,
then pour it gradually upon the other ingredients (which,
previously, should have been thoroughly beaten together
in a mug or pitcher), whisking and stirring the materials
all the while, in order to prevent the egg from curdling. Pour
the mixture into a large bar glass, powder a little cinnamon
on top, and add two or three cloves before serving.
      This seems like taking too much trouble just to make
one glass of Locomotive. The following proportions of ingre
dients makes four nice glasses:
     8 From the name of the seat of the Duke of Beaufort in England.
Badminton is also a game, similar to lawn tennis, played with shuttlecocks.
                                                                    81
           THE BON VIVANT's COMPANION


Two ounces of honey.             A few drops of essence of
Two pony glasses of high           cloves,
 red Burgundy.
     Proceed as directed above, and serve in large goblets
previously heated.



                SARATOGA         BRACE      UP

                      Use large bar glass
One tablespoonful of fine        Two dashes of absinthe.
  white sugar.                   One fresh egg.
Two dashes of bitters.           One wineglass of brandy.
Four dashes of lemon or lime     Two or three small lumps of
  juice.                            ice.
Shake up thoroughly, strain into another glass, and fill it up
with seltzer water.


                         • • • ^ 54 •••
                      WHITE     PLUSH

                      Use small bar glass
Hand a bottle of Bourbon or rye whiskey to the customer
and let him help himself.
     Fill up the glass with fresh milk.
     A curious story about the origin of this drink is thus
told by the New York Herald:
    "There are some mixed drinks that are standbys, and
are always popular, such as cocktails, punches and juleps;
but every little while there will be a new racket sprung on
the public that will have a great run for a time, and then
get knocked out by another. About a month ago white plush
  82
                     FANCY     DRINKS


got its Start in this way: There was a country buyer down
from New England somewhere, and a party of dry goods
men were trying to make it pleasant for him. So they took
him into a swell barroom down town, and were going to open
sour wine. Same old story, you know; get him full as a
balloon and then work him for a big order. It turned out
that this countryman was not such a flat as they thought
him. Though he had been swigging barrels of hard cider
and smuggled Canada whiskey for the last twenty years,
he pleaded the temperance business on them; said he never
drank, and he guessed he'd just take a glass of water if they'd
get him one, as he was kinder thirsty walkin' round so much.
Well, that was a set back for the boys. They knew he had
lots of money to spend, and he was one of those unapproach
able ducks that have got to be warmed up before you can
do anything with them.
     "'Oh, take something,' they said;'take some milk.'
     "'Well, I guess a glass of milk would go sorter good,'
said he.
    "Some one suggested kumyss and told him what it was.
As they did not have any kumyss in the place they gave him
some milk and seltzer. That's about the same thing. One of
the boys gave the bartender a wink and he put a dash of
whiskey in it. The old man did not get on to it all. He thought
it was the seltzer that flavored it. The next round the seltzer
was left out altogether and more whiskey put in. They kept
on giving it to him until he got pretty well set up. It's a very
insidious and seductive drink. Pretty soon the countryman
got funny and tipped his glass over on the table. As it spread
around he said:
    "'Gosh, it looks like white plush, don't it?'
    "'So it does,' said the boys.'Give the gentleman an
other yard of white plush, here;'and the name has stuck
to it ever since."

                                                          83




                                                                   "X
           THE BON VIVANT'S COMPANION


                         ... I 5 5...
                     SHANDY         GAFF

                 Use large bar glass, or mug

Fill the glass half full of ale, and the remaining half with
Irish ginger ale.
    In England, where this drink had its origin, it is made
with Bass's ale and ginger ale, half and half.


                         ...156...
                   HALF       AND    HALF

                 Use metal or stone bar mug

Mix half old and half new ale together.
       This is the American method.



                         ... I 5 7- • •
                     'arf and 'arf

                 Use metal or stone bar mug

Mix porter or stout, with ale in equal quantities, or in pro
portions to suit the taste.
     This is the English method, and usually,"draw it mild,
Mary, the ale first."




  84
                                                            ' ■'"' ■ ■ ' '■ ■"' ■ ' ■ ■ ''rf'




               Miscellaneous Drinks

                            ...1     . ..
                       BL    E     BLA   ER


      se two large silver-plated mugs, with handles
One wineglass     of    Scotch      One wineglass boiling water,
  whiskey.
Put the whiskey and the boiling water in one mug, ignite
the li uid with fire, and while blazing mix both ingredients
by pouring them four or five times from one mug to the
other. If well done this will have the appearance of a con
tinued stream of li uid fire.
      Sweeten with one teaspoonful of pulverized white sugar,
and serve in a small bar tumbler, with a piece of lemon peel.
      The Blue Blazer does not have a very euphonious or
classic name, but it tastes better to the palate than it sounds
to the ear. A beholder gazing for the first time upon an expe
rienced artist compounding this beverage, would naturally
come to the conclusion that it was a nectar for Pluto rather
than Bacchus. The novice in mixing this beverage should
be careful not to scald himself. To become proficient in
throwing the li uid from one mug to the other, it will be
necessary to practise for some time with cold water.
                        1 See frontispiece.
          THE BON VIVANt's COMPANION


                         ...159...
        JERRY THOMAS'S OWN DECANTER
                         BITTERS


One-fourth pound of raisins.     One ounce of cloves.
Two ounces of cinnamon.          One ounce of allspice.
One ounce snake-root.            Fill   decanter   with   Santa
One lemon and one orange            Cruz rum.
  cut in slices.                 Bottle and serve out in pony
                                   glasses.
As fast as the bitters is used fill up again with rum.

                        ..,160...
          BURNT       BRANDY       AND       PEACH

                     Use small bar glass
This drink is very popular in the Southern states, where it
is sometimes used as a cure for diarrhoea.
One wineglass of Cognac          Two or three slices of dried
  and one-half tablespoon of       peaches,
  white sugar, burnt in a        Place the dried fruit in a
  saucer or plate.                 glass and pour the liquid
                                   over them.

                         a ..161. a.
                    BLACK       STRIPE

                     Use small bar glass
One wineglass of Santa           One tablespoonful of mo-
  Cruz rum.                        lasses.
This drink can either be made in summer or winter: if in the
former season, mix in one tablespoonful of water, and cool
with shaved ice; if in the latter, fill up the tumbler with
boiling water. Grate a little nutmeg on top.
  86
John Peterson, of Kirk's, and His Celebrated Bald Head
               MISCELLANEOUS              DRINKS




                           ...I 6 2 ...

                  PEACH        AND   HONEY

                        Use small bar glass

One tablespoonjul of honey.       One wineglass      of   peach
                                    brandy.
Stir with a spoon.
                          ...163...
                     GIN     AND     PINE

                          Use wineglass

Split a piece of the heart of a green pine log into fine splints,
about the size of a cedar lead-pencil; take two ounces of the
same and put into a quart decanter, and fill the decanter
with gin.
     Let the pine soak for two hours, and the gin will be
ready to serve.
                           ...164...
                     GIN    AND    TANSY

                          Use wineglass
                                                                    t I
Fill a quart decanter one-third full of tansy, and pour in
gin to fill up the balance, one-third tansy to two-thirds gin.
Serve to customers in a wineglass.

                           ...165...
                  GIN    AND    WORMWOOD

                     Use small bar glass

Put three or four sprigs of wormwood into a quart decanter,
and fill up with gin.
     The above three drinks are not much used except in
small country villages.
                                                           89
         THE BON VIVANT'S COMPANION


                       ...I 6 6 ...
                 HOT     SPICED       RUM

                    Use small bar glass

One teaspoonjul of sugar.      One teaspoonful of mixed
One wineglass of Jamaica         spices   {allspice    and
  rum.                           cloves).
                               One piece of butter as large
                                   as half a chestnut.
Fill the tumbler with hot water.


                        ...167...
                        HOT    RUM

                    Use small bar glass

This drink is made the same as the hot spiced rum, omitting
the spices, and grating a little nutmeg on top.

                       ...168...
                     STONE fence

                    Use large bar glass
One wineglass of Bourbon        Two or three small lumps of
  whiskey.                         ice.
Fill up the glass with sweet cider.

                        ...169...
       RHINE WINE        AND SELTZER          WATER

                    Use large bar glass

Fill large bar glass half full of Rhine wine, and fill balance
with seltzer water. This is a German drink, and is not very
likely to be called for at an American bar.
  90
              MISCELLANEOUS           DRINKS



                        ...170...
                 BRANDY      STRAIGHT

                    Use small bar glass

In serving this drink you simply put a piece of ice in a tum
bler, and hand to your customer, with the bottle brandy. This
is very safe for a steady drink, but though a straight bever
age, it is often used on a bender.



                        ••.I 71.••
                    GIN    S TR AIGHT

                    Use small bar glass

Same as brandy straight, substituting gin for brandy.


                        ...172...
            SPLIT     SODA    AND     BRANDY

                   Use medium bar glass

One pony glass of brandy       One small lump of ice.
Add one-half of a bottle of plain soda water.



                        ... I 73--.
            BRANDY      AND    GINGER        ALE

                Use large soda-water glass

One wineglass of brandy.       Two or three small lumps
                                  of ice.

Fill up the glass with Irish ginger ale.
                                                        91
           THE BON VIVANT's COMPANION


                           ... I 74...
                       PONY     BRANDY

                         Use pony glass
Fill the pony glass with brandy, and hand it to your cus
tomer.

                          ... I 7 S • ••
                 BRANDY         AND        SODA

               Sometimes called Stone Wall

                       Use large bar glass
One wineglass of Cognac           One-third glass of fine ice.
  brandy.
Fill up with plain soda.


                          ...176...
                 BRANDY         AND        GUM

                       Use small bar glass
Same as brandy straight, with one dash of gum syrup.

                          ...I 77...
                  SHERRY         AND       EGG

                       Use small bar glass

One egg.                          One wineglass of sherry.
Mix well.
                          ...178...
              SHERRY         AND    BITTERS


One dash of bitters.              One wineglass of sherry.
Mix well.
  92
               MISCELLANEOUS           DRINKS



                         ... I 79...
                   SHERRY       AND    ICE


                     Use small bar glass

Put two lumps of ice in a glass, and fill with wine.


                        ...180...

                        ABSINTHE

                     Use small bar glass

                 One wineglass of absinthe.
Pour water, drop by drop, until the glass is full. Never use
a spoon.

                        ...181...
           FRENCH     METHOD       OF   SERVING
                        AB SINTHE


           Use a champagne glass standing in a bowl
               One pony glass of absinthe.
                                                                    t I
Let the water drip, as directed in the preceding recipe, until
the glass is full, and a very little runs over into the bowl.


                        ...182...
                ABSINTHE       AND     WATER

                    An improved method

                 One pony glass of absinthe.
Fill an absinthe glass (which is a glass made purposely with
a hole in the bottom) with shaved ice and water. Raise this
glass about one foot above the tumbler containing the ab
sinthe, and let sufficient water drip into it.
                                                          93




                                                                r,V|iiif;rfiMiii'i t.ifi V,   I
                      Egg Noggs
E.
 iGG NOGG is a beverage of American origin, but it has
a popularity that is cosmopolitan. At the South it is almost
indispensable at Christmas time, and at the North it is a
favorite at all seasons.
     In Scotland they call Egg Nogg"auld man's milk."

                        ...183...
                        EGG     NOGG

                    Use large bar glass

One tablespoonful of fine su-   One wineglass of Cognac
  gar, dissolved with             brandy.
One tablespoonful of cold       One-half    wineglass Santa
  water.                          Cruz rum.
One egg.                        One-third    tumblerful   of
                                  milk.

Fill the tumbler one-fourth full with shaved ice, shake the
ingredients until they are thoroughly mixed together, and
grate a little nutmeg on top. Every well-ordered bar has a
tin egg-nogg shaker, which is a great aid in mixing this bev
erage.
                        ...184...
                    HOT   EGG    NOGG

                    Use large bar glass
This drink is very popular in California, and is made in
precisely the same manner as the cold egg nogg above, except
that you must use boiling water instead of ice.
  94
Miss Dickie Lingard, a Charming Stage Favorite of the Seventies




                                                             .I ..   ,iV   ^^,1,
^;r
                       EGG   NOGGS



                        ...185...
                       EGG    N OG G

                    For a party of forty

One dozen eggs.                 Two gallons oj milk.
Two quarts oj brandy.           One and one-half pounds
One pint oj Santa Cruz rum.       white sugar.
Separate the whites of the eggs from the yolks, beat them
separately with an egg-beater until the yolks are well cut
up, and the whites assume a light fleecy appearance. Mix all
the ingredients (except the whites of the eggs) in a large
punch bowl, then let the whites float on top, and ornament
with colored sugars. Cool in a tub of ice, and serve.



                        ...186...

               BALTIMORE        EGG    NOGG

                   For a party of fifteen

Take the yellow of sixteen eggs and twelve tablespoonfuls
of pulverized loaf sugar, and beat them to the consistency 1
of cream; to this add two-thirds of a nutmeg grated, and
beat well together; then mix in half a pint of good brandy
or Jamaica rum, and two wineglasses of Madeira wine.
Have ready the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth,
and beat them into the above described mixture. When this
is all done, stir in six pints of good rich milk. There is no
heat used.
     Egg nogg made in this manner is digestible, and will
not cause headache. It makes an excellent drink for debili
tated persons, and a nourishing diet for consumptives.


                                                         97
           THE BON VIVANT'S COMPANION


                            ...187,..
       GENERAL HARRISON'S . E G 0                      NOGG^

                        Use large bar glass

One egg.                             Two or three small lumps of
One and one-half teaspoon-            ice.
  ful of sugar.                      Fill the tumbler with cider,
                                        and shake well.

This is a splendid drink, and is very popular on the Mis
sissippi river. It was General Harrison's favorite beverage.


                            ...188...

                     SHERRY       EGG     NOGG


One tahlespoonfid of white           One egg.
  sugar.                             Two wineglasses of sherry.
Dissolve the sugar with a little water; break the yolk of
the egg in a large glass; put in one-quarter tumblerful of
broken ice; fill with milk, and shake up until the egg is
thoroughly mixed with the other ingredients, then grate a
little nutmeg on top, and quaff the nectar cup.
     1 The private recipe of William Henry Harrison, ninth President of
the United States.




  98
                               Juleps
 n   HE julep is peculiarly an American beverage, and in the
 Southern states is more popular than any other. It was
 introduced into England by Captain Marryatt^ where it is
now quite a javorite. The gallant captain seems to have
had a penchant for the nectareous drink, and published the
recipe in his work on America. We give it in his own words:
"I must descant a little upon the mint julep, as it is, with
the thermometer at loo degrees, one of the most delightful
and insinuating potations that ever was invented, and may
be drunk with equal satisfaction when the thermometer is
as low as yo degrees. There are many varieties, such as those
composed of claret, Madeira, etc.; but the ingredients of the
real mint julep are as follows. I learned how to make them,
and succeeded pretty well. Put into a tumbler about a dozen
sprigs of the tender shoots of mint, upon them put a spoonful
of white sugar, and equal proportions of peach and common
brandy, so as to fill it up one-third, or perhaps a little less.
Then take rasped or pounded ice, and fill up the tumbler.
Epicures rub the lips of the tumbler with a piece of fresh
pineapple, and the tumbler itself is very often incrusted out
side with stalactites of ice. As the ice melts, you drink.I once
overheard two ladies talking in the next room to me, and
one of them said'Well, if I have a weakness for any one
thing, it is for a mint julep!
                             ' — a very amiable weakness,
and proving her good sense and good taste. They are, in fact,
like the American ladies, irresistible."
    A Georgia paper recently speaking on this subject says:
    "Probably the old-fashioned jidep is in its decadence
as a public drink, but it does not follow that the art of
    1 Captain Frederick Marryatt, the English naval officer and novelist.
                                                                  99




                                                                            i
          THE BON VIVANT's COMPANION

constructing this famous Southern refresher is lost. On the
contrary, we have knowledge of several old-fashioned gar
dens where the mint bed under the southern wall still blooms
luxuriantly; where white fingers of household angels come
every day about this time of the year and pluck a few sprays
of the aromatic herb to build a julep for poor old shaky
grandpa, who sits in the shady corner of the veranda with
his feet on the rail and his head busy with the olden days.
In such a household the art is still preserved. With her
sleeves rolled up, the rosy granddaughter stirs sugar in a
couple of tablespoonfuls of sparkling water, packs crushed
ice to the top of the heavy cut-glass goblet, pours in the-
mellow whiskey until an overthrow threatens and daintily
thrusts the mint sprays into the crevices. And the old man,
rousing from his dreams, blesses the vision which seems
to rise up from the buried days of his youth, and with his
gay nose nestling peacefully in the nosegay at the summit
of his midday refresher, quaffs the icy drink, and with a long-
drawn sigh of relief sinks back to dream again until the
dinner bell sounds its hospitable summons. The mint julep
still lives, but it is by no means fashionable. Somehow the
idea has gotten abroad that the mint ought to be crushed
and shaken up with water and whiskey in equal propor
tions. No man can fall in love with such a mixture. Poor
juleps have ruined the reputation of the South's most famous
drink."

                        ...189...
           REAL GEORGIA          MINT      JULEP

                     Use large bar glass

One teaspoonful of white Three-quarters wineglass of
  powdered sugar.             peach brandy.
Three-quarters wineglass of About twelve sprigs of the
  Cognac brandy.              tender shoots of mint.
   100
                           JULEPS

Put the mint in the tumbler, add the sugar, having previ
ously dissolved it in a little water, then the brandy, and
lastly, fill up the glass with shaved ice. Stir with a spoon but
do not crush the mint. This is the genuine method of con
cocting a Southern mint julep, but whiskey may be substi
tuted for brandy if preferred.



                         • ••IQOaaa
                      MINT JULEP

                     Use large bar glass

One tablespoonjul of white       Two and one-half table-
  pulverized sugar.                spoonfids of water; mix
                                   well with a spoon.
Take three or four sprigs of fresh mint, and press them
well in the sugar and water, until the flavor of the mint is
extracted; add one and a half wineglasses of Cognac brandy,
and fill the glass with fine shaved ice, then draw out the
sprigs of mint and insert them in the ice with the stems
downward, so that the leaves will be above, in the shape of a
bouquet; arrange berries, and small pieces of sliced orange
on top in a tasty manner, dash with Jamaica rum, and
sprinkle white sugar on top. Place a straw tastily, and you
have a julep that is fit for an emperor.



                         • ••IQIaa*
                    BRANDY J ULEP

                     Use large bar glass

The brandy julep is made with the same ingredients as the
mint julep, omitting the fancy fixings.
                                                        lOI
                     THE BON VIVANT'S COMPANION


                                    ...192...

                                  GIN    JULEP

                                Use large bar glass

           The gin julep is made with the same ingredients as the
           mint julep, omitting the fancy fixings.


                                   ...193...
                              WHISKEY         JULEP

                                Use large bar glass
           The whiskey julep is made the same as the mint julep,
           omitting all fruits and berries.


                                    ...I 94---
                            PINEAPPLE JULEP

                                For a party of five
           Peel, slice and cut up a ripe pineapple into a glass bowl,
           add the juice of two oranges, a gill of raspberry syrup, a
           gill of maraschino, a gill of old gin, a bottle of sparkling
           Moselle, and about a pound of pure ice in shaves; mix, orna
           ment with berries in season, and serve in flat glasses.




\-f y „>




             102
                               NEGUS




                              NegUS

 TnHIS is an English beverage and derives its name from
Colonel Negus ^ who is said to have invented it. It may be
made of sherry or any other sweet wine, but it is more
usually made of port.


                            ...195...
                    PORT      WINE      NEGUS


To every pint of port wine           One-quarter pound of loaf
  allow.                                sugar.
One quart of boiling water.          One lemon.
                                     Grated nutmeg to taste.
Put the wine into a jug, rub some lumps of sugar (equal to
one-fourth pound) on the lemon rind until all the yellow part
of the skin is absorbed, then squeeze the juice and strain it.
Add the sugar and lemon juice to the port wine, with the
grated nutmeg; pour over it the boiling water, cover the
jug, and when the beverage has cooled a little, it will be
fit for use.


                           ...196...
                    PORT      WINE      NEGUS

                          Another recipe

One wineglass of port wine. One teaspoonful of sugar.
Fill tumbler one-third full with hot water.
    1 Colonel Francis Negus, of the English Army, who died in 1732.
                                                               103
         THE BON      VIVANT'S COMPANION


                       ...ipy...

                     SODA    NEGUS


A MOST refreshing and elegant beverage, particularly for
those who do not take punch or grog after supper, is thus
made:
     Put half a pint of port wine, with four lumps of sugar,
three cloves, and enough grated nutmeg to cover a shilling,
into a saucepan; warm it well, but do not suffer it to boil;
pour it into a bowl or jug, and upon the warm wine decant a
bottle of soda water. You will have an effervescing and
delicious negus by this means.




  104
                                Mulls


                              ... I 9 S • • •
         MULLED          WINE         WITHOUT EGGS


To every pint of wine allow:           Sugar and spice to taste.
One small tumblerful of
   water.

In making preparations like the above, it is very difficult
to give the exact proportions of ingredients like sugar and
spice, as what quantity might suit one person would be to
another quite distasteful. Boil the spice in the water until
the flavor is extracted, then add the wine and sugar, and
bring the whole to the boiling point, then serve with strips
of crisp, dry toast, or with biscuit. The spices usually used
for mulled wine are cloves, grated nutmeg, and cinnamon or
mace. Any kind of wine may be mulled, but port or claret are
those usually selected for that purpose; and the latter
requires a large proportion of sugar. The vessel that the
wine is boiled in must be delicately clean.

                          ,..199...
                   MULLED WINE, WITH EGGS

                        Use punch bowl
Nine fresh eggs.                        Claret, or red Burgundy
Four tablespoonfuls of pow-             wine.
  dered white sugar.                  Grated nutmeg to taste.
One quart either of port,             One pint of water.
Beat up the whites and the yolks of the eggs separately,
the sugar with the yolks. Pour into a delicately clean skillet
                                                             lOS




   ^     .   • -         .-                         =   ^          r-
          THE BON VIVANT'S COMPANION

the wine and half a pint of water, set this in the bowl with the
balance of the water and beat them together thoroughly.
When the wine boils pour it on the mixture in the bowl, add
the nutmeg, and stir it rapidly.
     Be careful not to pour the mixture into the wine, or the
eggs will curdle.
     Some persons may prefer more sugar, and the addition
of a little allspice, but this is a matter of taste.


                          ... 2 DO...

                     MUELED        WINE

                    With the whites of eggs

Dissolve one pound of sugar in two pints of hot water, to
which add two and a half pints of good sherry wine, and let
the mixture be set upon the fire until it is almost ready to boil.
Meantime beat up the whites of twelve eggs to a froth, and
pour into them the hot mixture, stirring rapidly. Add a little
nutmeg.



                     M ULL ED      WINE                              >.T

                            In verse

         First, my dear madam, you must take
         Nine eggs, which carefully you'll break —
         Into a bowl you'll drop the white.
         The yolks into another by it.
         Let Betsy beat the whites with switch.
         Till they appear quite frothed and rich —
         Another hand the yolks must beat
         With sugar, which will make them sweet;
         Three or four spoonfuls maybe'll do.
         Though some, perhaps, would take but two.
   io6
   A Y.




Scoundrels Plying an Innocent Maiden with Liquor in 1870
    V'V          • , ' ■
    fit                       ■
.   <            -", r
    '     ■ '.     ■ ,               '
                         ■ '. - v. • •




                            ji      1. ,'t ■ '■ "?
                            'r- wJ. .,          •    '
                            MULLS


          Into a skillet next you'll pour
          A bottle of good wine, or more —
          Put half a pint of water, too.
          Or it may prove too strong for you;
          And while the eggs (by two) are beating,
          The wine and water may be heating;
          But when it comes to boiling heat.
          The yolks and whites together beat
          With half a pint of water more —..
          Mixing them well, then gently pour
          Into the skillet with the wine.
          And stir it briskly all the time.
          Then pour it off into a pitcher;
          Grate nutmeg in to make it richer.
          Then drink it hot, for he's a fool.
          Who lets such precious liquor cool.


                         ...202 ...

                    MULLED       CLARET

                      A la Lord Saltoun

Peel one lemon fine, add to it some white pounded sugar;
pour over one glass of sherry, then add a bottle of claret
{vin ordinaire is the best) and sugar to taste; add a sprig of
verbena, one bottle of soda water, and nutmeg, if you like
it. For cup, strain and ice it well. For mull heat it and serve
it hot.

                         ... 2 03...

                     MULLED       CIDER


Cider may be mulled in precisely the same manner as recom
mended in the recipe for mulled wine with eggs, omitting
the water, and using twice the quantity of cider for the same
number of eggs.
                                                        109
                               Flip!^


                          RUM      FLIP


Which Dibdin ^ has immortalized as the favorite beverage
of sailors (although we believe they seldom indulge in it) —
is made by adding a gill of rum to the beer, or substituting
rum and water, when malt liquor cannot be procured. The
essential in flips of all sorts is, to produce the smoothness
by repeated pouring back and forward between two vessels,
and beating up the eggs well in the first instance; the sweet
ening and spices according to taste.


                           ...205...
                          RUM      FLIP

                         Another recipe

Keep grated ginger and nutmeg with a little fine dried lemon
peel, rubbed together in a mortar.
     To make a quart of flip: put the ale on the fire to warm,
and beat up three or four eggs with four ounces of moist
sugar, a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg or ginger, and a gill
of good old rum or brandy. When the ale is near to boil, put
it into one pitcher, and the rum and eggs, etc., into another;
turn it from one pitcher to another till it is as smooth as
cream.

      1 Charles Dibdin, the English naval song writer and dramatist. He
wrote seventy dramatic pieces and about nine hundred songs, of which
Poor Jack and Tom Bowling are the most famous.
  no
                           FLIPS



                          ...206...
                    COLD     RUM    FLIP


                     Use large bar glass

One teaspoonjul of paw-          One wineglass of Jamaica
  dered sugar, dissolved in a      rum.
  little water.                  One fresh egg.
                                 Two or three lumps of ice.
Shake up thoroughly, strain in a medium glass, and grate
a little nutmeg on top.
                          ,..207...
             HOT    ENGLISH        RUM     FLIP

                           One quart

One quart of ale.                Four ounces of moist sugar.
One gill of old rum.             One teaspoonfid of grated
Four raw fresh eggs.               nutmeg {or ginger).
Heat the ale in a saucepan; beat up the eggs and sugar, add
the nutmeg and rum, and put it all in a pitcher. When the ale
is near to a boil, put it in another pitcher, pour it very grad
ually in the pitcher containing the eggs, etc., stirring all the
while very briskly to prevent the eggs from curdling, then
pour the contents of the two pitchers from one to the other
until the mixture is as smooth as cream.

                          ...2 oS...

                       BRAN DY     FLIP

                     Use small bar glass

 One teaspoonful of sugar.        One wineglass of brandy.
Fill the tumbler one-third full of hot water, mix, and place
a toasted cracker on top, and grate nutmeg over it.
                                                          Ill
          THE BON VIVANT'S COMPANION


                         ...209...
                  COLD    BRANDY         FLIP


                      Use large bar glass
One teaspoonjul powdered          One-half wineglass of water.
  sugar.                          One fresh egg.
One wineglass of brandy.          Two lumps of ice.
Dissolve the sugar in the water, add the brandy, egg, and
ice, shake up thoroughly, strain into a small bar glass. Serve
with a little nutmeg on top.



                  HOT     BRANDY         FLIP

                 Use large bar glass, heated
One teaspoonful of sugar.         Yolk of one egg.
One wineglass of brandy.
Dissolve the sugar in a little hot water, add the brandy and
egg, shake up thoroughly, pour into a medium bar glass,
and fill it one-half full of boiling water. Grate a little nutmeg
on top, and serve.
                         ...2X1...

                     COLD      GIN   FLIP

                     Use large bar glass
Same as Cold Rum Flip, substituting Holland gin instead of
Jamaica rum.
                         • • •2 I2*a a

                     HOT    GIN      FLIP

                 Use large bar glass, heated                        ij
Same as Brandy Flip, substituting Holland gin instead of
brandy.
  112




                                                                    ,'V
John Bowman and Len Stockwell, of No. 157 Fulton Street




                                                          \
              ,




I'< .i.'"''




     .'W




           '!"■



     "'V'T"'




    yii.iW'



                  I.-.,' ■!■
                         FLIPS



                       ...213...
                COLD    WHISKEY      FLIP

                    Use large bar glass

Same as Rum Flip, substituting Bourbon or rye whiskey
instead of Jamaica rum.



                       ...214...

                HOT    WHISKEY       FLIP

Same as Brandy Flip, using whiskey instead of brandy.




                  PORT    WINE     FLIP

                    Use large bar glass

One small teaspoonjul of       One fresh egg.
  powdered white sugar.     Two or three small lumps of
One large wineglass of port   ice.
   wine.

Break the egg into the glass, add the sugar, and lastly the
wine and ice. Shake up thoroughly and strain into a medium-
sized goblet.

                        ...2X6...
                SHERRY       WINE FLIP

                    Use large bar glass

 This is made precisely as the Port Wine Flip, substituting
 sherry wine instead of port.
                                                        "5
           THE BON VIVANT'S COMPANION


                          ...217...
                          ALE    FLIP


 Put on the fire in a saucepan one quart of ale, and let it
 boil; have ready the whites of two eggs and the yolks of
 four, well beaten up separately; add them by degrees to
 four tablespoonfuls of moist sugar, and half a nutmeg grated.
 When all are well mixed, pour on the boiling ale by degrees,
 beating up the mixture continually; then pour it rapidly
 backward and forward from one jug to another, keeping one
jug raised high above the other, till the flip is smooth and
finely frothed. This is a good remedy to take at the com
mencement of a cold.


                         ... 2 18...
              HOT    ENGLISH        ALE    FLIP

                          One quart

This is prepared in the same manner as Rum Flip, omitting
the rum, and the whites of two of the eggs.


                         ... 2 19...

                         EGG    FLIP


Put a quart of ale in a saucepan on the fire to boil; in
the meantime, beat up the yolks of four, with the whites of
two eggs, adding four tablespoonfuls of brown sugar and a
little nutmeg; pour on the ale by degrees, beating up, so as
to prevent the mixture from curdling; then pour back and
forward repeatedly from vessel to vessel, raising the hand
to as great a height as possible—which process produces
the smoothness and frothing essential to the good quality of
the flip. This is excellent for a cold, and from its fleecy ap
pearance, is sometimes designated a Yard of Flannel.
  116
                          FLIPS



                        ... 2 2 O ...

                        EGG   FLIP

                       Another recipe

Beat up, in a jug, four new-laid eggs, omitting two of the
whites; add half a dozen large lumps of sugar, and rub
these well in the eggs, pour in boiling water, about half a
pint at a time, and when the jug is nearly full, throw in two
tumblers of Cognac brandy, and one of old Jamaica rum.




                                                       117




                                                                ' i.l p-.A »   ■   .'I
                                                                                   — 1^
           THE BON VIVANT'S COMPANION




                               Fizzes

                           • ••22 !••■

                          OLDEN         FI

                        se large bar glass
One tablespoonjul of fine          The yolk of one egg.
  white sugar.                     One wineglass of Old Tom
Three dashes of lemon or             gin.
  lime juice.                      Two or three small lumps of
                                       ice.

Shake up thoroughly, strain into a medium bar glass, and
fill it up with seltzer water.

                          ,, .        . ..

                   SANTA         CR          FI

                      se medium bar glass
One teaspoonful of fine One small lump of ice.
  white sugar.                  One wineglass of Santa
Three dashes of lemon juice.      Cruz rum.
Fill up the glass with seltzer water from a syphon, or with
Apollinaris water, stir thoroughly and serve.

                         ...     3. ..
                     WHISKEY           FI

                     se medium bar glass
One teaspoonful of fine           One small lump of ice.
  white sugar.                    One wineglass of Bourbon
Three dashes of lemon juice.        or rye whiskey.
  11
                          FIZZES


Fill up the glass with seltzer or Apollinarls water, stir
thoroughly and serve.

                         ...224...

                     BRANDY      FIZ

                  Use medium bar glass

One teaspoonjul of paw-        One wineglass of brandy.
  dered white sugar.           One small lump of ice.
Three dashes of lemon juice.
Fill up the glass with Apollinaris or seltzer water, stir
thoroughly and serve.

                         ...2 2^..«
                         GIN   FIZ

                  Use medium bar glass

One teaspoonful of pow-        One wineglass of Holland
  dered white sugar.             gin.
Three dashes of lemon juice.   One small piece of ice.
Fill up the glass with Apollinaris or seltzer water, stir
thoroughly and serve.

                         ...226...
                     SILVER      FIZ

                    Use large bar glass

One tablespoonful of pulver- One wineglass of Old Tom
  ized white sugar.          • gin.
 Three dashes of lemon or      Two or three small lumps of
   lime juice.                  ice.
 The white of one egg.
Shake up thoroughly, strain into a medium bar glass, and
fill it up with seltzer water.
                                                    119
t£f< ■


  H''-
     t'h.




                                     Smashes


            This beverage is simply a julep on a small plan.
                                     ■ • •2 2

                                   GIN    SMASH

                                 Use small bar glass

            One-half tablespoonful of           One tablespoonful of water.
              white sugar.                      One wineglass of gin.
            Fill two-thirds full of shaved ice, use two sprigs of mint, the
            same as in the recipe for mint julep. Lay two small pieces of
            orange on top, and ornament with berries in season.


                                    « ..2 2

                              WHISKEY            SMASH

                                Use small bar glass

            One-half tablespoonful of           One tablespoonful of water,
              white sugar.                      One wineglass of whiskey.
            Fill two-thirds full of shaved ice, and use two sprigs of
            mint, the same as in the recipe for mint julep.

              120
                            SMASHES



1                          ...2 2 0...
i
I                      BRANDYSMASH

                        Use small bar glass

    One teaspoonjul of white su-   Three or four sprigs of ten-
      gar.                           der mint.
    Two    tablespoonfuls     of   One wineglass of brandy,
      water.

    Press the mint in the sugar and water to extract the flavor,
    add the brandy, and fill the glass two-thirds full of shaved
    ice. Stir thoroughly, and ornament with a half a slice of
    orange, and a few fresh sprigs of mint. Serve with a straw.
    Beautify with berries in season.




                                                         121
                          Shrubs

                         ...230...

                     CHERRY      SHRUB


Pick ripe acid cherries from the stem, and put them in an
earthen pot; place that in an iron pot of water; boil till the
juice is extracted; strain it through a cloth thick enough to
retain the pulp, and sweeten it to your taste. When perfectly
clear, bottle it, sealing the cork. By first putting a gill of
brandy into each bottle, it will keep through the summer. It
is delicious mixed with water. Irish or Monongahela whiskey
will answer instead of brandy, though not as good.



             WHITE       CURRANT       SHRUB


Strip the fruit, and prepare in a jar, as for jelly; strain the
juice, of which put two quarts to one gallon of rum, and two
pounds of lump sugar; strain through a jelly bag.


                     CURRANT SHRUB


One pint of sugar.              One pint of strained currant
                                   juice.
Bon, it gently eight or ten minutes, skimming it well; take
it off and, when lukewarm, add half a gill of brandy to every
pint of shrub. Bottle tight.
  122
A Midnight Show at the Tivoli, a Famous Variety Theater
               in Eighth Street, in 18^8
- . 'v . •?




              t,.


              f 11




        A '\




        01--
        /«V

       ' /
                          SHRUBS



                        • • • 2 3 3 • ••
                  RASPBERRY         SHRUB


One quart of vinegar.             Three quarts of ripe rasp
                                     berries.

After standing a day, strain it, adding to each pint a pound
of sugar, and skim it clear, while boiling about half an hour.
Put a wineglass of brandy to each pint of the shrub, when
cool. Two spoonfuls of this mixed with a tumbler of water,
is an excellent drink in warm weather, and in fevers.


                         •••234** *
                    BRANDY        SHRUB


To the thin rinds of two lemons, and the juice of five, add
two quarts of brandy; cover it for three days, then add a
quart of sherry and two pounds of loaf sugar,run it through
a jelly bag, and bottle it.

                          " • •235'**
                        RUM     SHRUB


 Put three pints of orange juice and one pound of loaf sugar        '
 to a gallon of rum. Put all into a cask, and leave it for six
 weeks, when it will be ready for use.

                          ...236...
                 ENGLISH RUM SHRUB


 To three gallons of best Jamaica rum, add a quart of orange
 juice, a pint of lemon juice, with the peels of the latter fruit
 cut very thin, and six pounds of powdered sugar.
      Let these be covered close, and remain so all night; next
                                                          125
          THE BON VIVANT's COMPANION

day boil three pints of fresh milk, and let it get cold, then
pour it on the spirit and juice, mix them well, and let it
stand for an hour. Filter it through a flannel bag lined with
blotting paper, into bottles; cork down as soon as each is
filled.




 126
                         Cobblers

LIKE the julep, this delicious potation is an American
invention, although it is now a favorite in all warm climates.
The cobbler does not require much skill in compounding,
but to make it acceptable to the eye, as well as to the palate,
it is necessary to display some taste in ornamenting the
glass after the beverage is made.


                         ... 2 3 7 •
                  WHISKEY        COBBLER

                     Use large bar glass

Two wineglasses of whiskey.      Two or three slices of
One tablespoonful of sugar.       orange.
Fill tumbler with ice, and shake well. Imbibe through a
straw.


                         ...238...
                   SHERRY       COBBLER

                     Use large bar glass

Two wineglasses of sherry.       Two or three       slices of
One tablespoonful of sugar.        orange.
Fill a tumbler with shaved ice, shake well, and ornament
 with berries in season. Place a straw in a tasty manner.
                                                        127
          THE BON VIVANT's COMPANION


                           ...239...
               CHAMPAGNE             COBBLER


       One bottle of wine to four large bar glasses

One tablespoonful of sugar.         One piece each of orange and
                                      lemon peel.
File the tumbler one-third full with shaved ice, and fill bal
ance with wine; ornament in a tasty manner with berries in
season. This beverage should be sipped through a straw.

                           ...240...

                   CATAWBA          COBBLER

                     Use large bar glass

One teaspoonful of sugar            Two wineglasses of wine,
  dissolved   in   one    table-
  spoonful of water.
Fill the tumbler with shaved ice, and ornament with sliced
orange and berries in season. Place a straw as described in
the Sherry Cobbler.

                    HOCK          COBBLER

                     Use large bar glass
This drink is made the same way as the Catawba Cobbler,
using Hock wine instead of Catawba.

                           ■ •■     •••

                   CLARET          COBBLER

                         se large bar glass
This drink is made the same way as the Catawba Cobbler,
using claret wine instead of Catawba.
  1
                     COBBLERS



                     ...243,..

              SAUTERNE       COBBLER

                  Use large bar glass

The same as Catawba Cobbler, using sauterne instead of
Catawba.




                                                         'I




                                                129
                          Daisies

                         • • •2

                     BRAN D Y     DAISY

                     Use small bar glass

Three or jour dashes o]gurn       The juice of half a small
 syrup.                             lemon.
Two or three dashes of cu-        One small      wineglass   of
  ragao cordial.                    brandy.
                                  Two dashes of Jamaica rum.
Fill glass one-third full of shaved ice.
     Shake well, strain into a large cocktail glass, and fill
up with seltzer water from a sj^hon.


                        ... 2 4 5 • • •
                   WHISKEY         DAISY

                    Use small bar glass

Three dashes gum syrup.           One wineglass of Bourbon,
Two dashes of orgeat syrup.         or rye whiskey.
The juice of half a small
  lemon.

Fill glass one-third full of shaved ice.
    Shake thoroughly, strain into a large cocktail glass,
and fill up with Apollinaris or seltzer water.
  130
                          DAISIES



                         ...246...
              SANTA      CRUZ    RUM    DAISY

                     Use small bar glass

Three or jour dashes of gum      The juice of half a small
  syrup.                           lemon-
Two or three dashes of ma-       One wineglass of Santa Cruz
  raschino or curaqao.               rum.
Fill glass one-third full of shaved ice.
      Shake thoroughly, strain into a large cocktail glass, and
fill up with Apollinaris or seltzer water.


                         ...247...
                        GIN   DAISY

                     Use small bar glass

Three or four dashes of or-      The juice of half a small
  geat, or gum syrup.              lemon.
Three dashes of maraschino.      One wineglass of Holland
                                   gin.
Fill glass one-third full of shaved ice.
    Shake well, strain into a large cocktail glass, and fill up
with seltzer or Apollinaris water.




                                                        131
                      Tom Collins

                         ...248...
               TOM    COLLINS     WHISKEY

                     Use small bar glass

Five or six dashes of gum       One large wineglass of whis-
  syrup.                          key.
Juice of a small lemon.         Two or three lumps of ice.
Shake well and strain into a large bar glass.
     Fill up the glass with plain soda water and imbibe
while it is lively.


                        ...249...

                TOM     COLLINS      GIN

                     Use large bar glass
The same as Tom Collins Whiskey, substituting gin for
whiskey.


                        ...250...
               TOM    COLLINS      BRANDY

                     Use large bar glass
The same as Tom Collins Whiskey, substituting brandy
for whiskey.
  132
John Austin, Principal Bartender at Meagher's Saloon
                              Fixes


L
'. N making fixes be careful and put the lemon skin in
the glass.

                      WHISKEY         FIX


One large teaspoonful of         The juice of half a lemon,
  powdered white sugar, dis-     One wineglass of Bourbon
  solved in a little water.        or rye whiskey.
Fill up the glass about two-thirds full of shaved ice, stir
well, and ornament the top of the glass as directed in the last
recipe.
                         •••2 ^2.»*
                      BRANDY       FIX

                     Use small bar glass
One tablespoonful of sugar.      One-half a wineglass of wa-
One-fourth of a lemon.             ter.
                                 One wineglass brandy.
Fill a tumbler two-thirds full of shaved ice. Stir with a
spoon, and dress the top with fruit in season.

                         ...253...
                         GIN    FIX

                     Use small bar glass
One tablespoonful of sugar.      One-half a      wineglass of
One-fourth of a lemon.             water.
                                 One wineglass gin.
                                                        135
         THE BON VIVANT'S COMPANION

Fill two-thirds full of shaved ice. Stir with a spoon, and
ornament the top with fruits in season.


                       ■ ••2

                 SANTA     CRUZ FIX


The Santa Cruz fix is made by substituting Santa Cruz rum
instead of brandy.




  136
                          Sours

LN making sours be careful and put the lemon skin in the
glass.



                        GIN   SOUR


                    Use small bar glass

The gin sour is made with the same ingredients as the gin
fix, omitting all fruits, except a small piece of lemon, the
juice of which must be pressed in the glass.


                        ••*2^6...
                  SANTA     CRUZ    SOUR


The Santa Cruz sour is made by substituting Santa Cruz
rum instead of gin. In making fixes and sours be careful and
put the lemon skin in the glass.


                       ...257...
                    BRANDY       SOUR

                    Use small bar glass

One large teaspoonful of powdered white sugar, dissolved in
a little Apollinaris or seltzer water.
                                                      137
         THE BON      VIVANT's COMPANION

The juice of half a lemon.     One wineglass of brandy.
One dash of curagao.
     Fill the glass with shaved ice, shake, and strain into
a claret glass.

                       ... 2 58...
                       EGG     SOUR

                    Use small bar glass

One teaspoonful of powdered    One pony of brandy.
  white sugar.                 One egg.
Three dashes of lemon juice.    Two or three small lumps of
One pony of curagao.             ice.
Shake up well, and remove the ice before serving.




   138
                          Toddies

                        ...259...
                      APPLE     TODDY

                     Use small bar glass

One tablespoonjul of fine       One wineglass of cider
  white sugar.                    brandy.
                                One-half of a baked apple.
Fill the glass two-thirds full of boiling water, and grate a
little nutmeg on top.


                        ... 2 60...

                   BRA N DY     TODDY

                     Use small bar glass

One teaspoonful of sugar.       One wineglass of brandy.
One-half wineglass of water.    One small lump of ice.
Stir with a spoon.


                        ...2 61 ...
                HOT     BRANDY     TODDY

                 Use small bar glass, hot

One teaspoonful of fine white   One wineglass of brandy,
  sugar.

                                                     139
                                                            If

         THE BON       VIVANT'S COMPANION

Dissolve the sugar in a little boiling water, add the brandy,
and pour boiling water into the glass until it is two-thirds
full. Grate a little nutmeg on top.



                        ... 2 62 ...
                   WHISKEY       TODDY

                     Use small bar glass

One teaspoonjul of sugar.       One wineglass of whiskey.
One-half wineglass of water.    One small lump of ice.
Stir with a spoon.


                        ...2

                       GIN     TODDY

                     Use small bar glass

One teaspoonful of sugar. One wineglass of gin.
One-half wineglass of wa- One small lump of ice.
  ter.

Stir with a spoon.
                        ...2

                   HOT    GIN    TODDY

                 Use small bar glass, hot
One teaspoonful of powdered     One wineglass of Holland,
  white sugar.                    or Old Tom gin {as pre
                                  ferred).
Dissolve the sugar in boiling water, add the gin, and pour
boiling water into the glass until it is two-thirds full.


   140
    r




                                                        * 'Tiji




                                                        M
                                                        ;.r




Jack Kelly, Principal Bartender of the Prescott House
Ka !   >
           . "*-• - j■ -i

ife/v:;




                            u.,''-^




                                 f„v
                          Slings


                   BRANDY       SLING

                    Use small bar glass

One small teaspoonjul of        One small lump of ice.
  powdered white sugar.         One wineglass of brandy.
One wineglass of water.
Dissolve the sugar in water, add the brandy, and ice, stir
well with a spoon. Grate a little nutmeg on top, and serve.


                        ... 2 66...
                 HOT    BRANDY      SLING

                 Use medium bar glass, hot

One small teaspoonful of        One wineglass of brandy,
  powdered sugar.
Dissolve the sugar in a little boiling water, add the brandy,
and fill the glass two-thirds full of boiling water. Grate a
little nutmeg on top and serve.


                        ...267 ...
               hot     whiskey        SLING

                    Use small bar glass

                 One wineglass of whiskey.
Fill tumbler one-third full with boiling water, and grate
nutmeg on top.
                                                      143
         THE BON VIVANT's COMPANION


                       ...268...
                       GIN   SLING

                    Use small bar glass

The gin sling is made with the same ingredients as the gin
toddy, except you grate a little nutmeg on top.


                       ...269...
                  W HIS KE Y     SLING

                    Use small bar glass

One small teaspoonjul of       One wineglass of Bourbon
  powdered white sugar.          or rye whiskey.
One wineglass of water.
Dissolve the sugar in the water, add the whiskey and ice,
stir thoroughly with a spoon. Grate a little nutmeg on top,
and serve.




  144
                       Sangarees

                        ...270...
              PORT     WINE        SANGAREE

                     Use small bar glass

One and one-third wineglass        One teaspoonjul of sugar,
  of port wine.
Fill tumbler two-thirds with ice. Shake well and grate nut
meg on top.

                         • • •2     •••

                  SHERRY          SANGAREE

                     Use small bar glass

One wineglass of sherry.           One    teaspoonful   of fine
                                     sugar.

Fill tumbler one-third with ice, and grate nutmeg on top.


                         •••2^2aa »
                  BRANDY          SANGAREE

                     Use small bar glass

The brandy sangaree is made with the same ingredients as
the brandy toddy, omitting the nutmeg. Fill two-thirds full
of ice, and dash about a teaspoonful of port wine, so that it
will float on top.
                                                         14s
         THE BON VIVANT'S COMPANION


                        ...273...

                    GIN   SANGAREE

                    Use small bar glass

The gin sangaree is made with the same ingredients as the
gin toddy, omitting the nutmeg. Fill two-thirds full of ice,
and dash about a teaspoonful of port wine, so that it will
float on the top.



                   ALE    SANGAREE

                    Use large bar glass

         One teaspoonjul of sugar, dissolved in a
                  tablespoonful of water.
Fill the tumbler with ale, and grate nutmeg on top.


                       ...275...
                PORTER      SANGAREE

                   Use large bar glass
This beverage is made the same as an ale sangaree, and is
sometimes called porteree.




  146
                          Skins


             SCOTCH      WHISKEY         SKIN

                   Use small bar glass

One wineglass of Scotch        One piece of lemon peel,
  whiskey.
Fill the tumbler one-half full of boiling water.



              IRISH     WHISKEY      SKIN

                   Use small bar glass

One lump of white sugar.       One small piece of lemon
One wineglass of Irish whis-     peel.
. key.
Proceed as directed for Scotch Whiskey Skin.


                       ...278...
                  COLUMBIA       SKIN


This is a Boston drink, and is made the same as a Whiskey
Skin.



                                                    147




                                                            >1 , ,
         THE BON VIVANt's COMPANION




Syrups^ Essences, Tinctures, Colorings, etc,

                            ... 2 79...
               SOLFERINO           COLORING


One ounce of solferino.           One gallon of alcohol (p5 per
                                     cent).

Put them in a bottle, shake well, and in twenty-four hours
it will be ready for use.
                            ...280...
                            CARA MEL


Seven pounds of loaf sugar.       One pint of water.
Crush and dissolve the sugar in the water; boil it in a five-
gallon copper kettle, stirring occasionally, until it gets
brown; when it begins to burn, reduce the fire; let it burn
until the smoke becomes offensive to the eyes; then try it
by dipping a rod into it, and letting a few drops fall into
a glass of cold water; if it settles at the bottom and crystal
lizes, so that it will crack, it is done. Then take about half
a gallon of luke-warm water, and pour it in by degrees,
stirring all the time. When thoroughly mixed, filter it while
hot through a coarse flannel filter.

                            ...281...
                 ESSENCE OF COGNAC

One ounce of oil of cognac.          {95 per cent).
One-half gallon of spirits         One gallon of spirits (70 per
                                     cent).
   148
     SYRUPS, ESSENCES, TINCTURES, ETC.

Two ounces of strong am-         One pound of fine black tea.
  monia.                         Two pounds of primes.
Dissolve the oil of cognac in the 95 per cent spirits; cork
it tightly in a bottle and let it stand three days, frequently
shaking it, then add the ammonia.
      Mash the prunes (breaking the kernels) and put them
with the tea and the 70 per cent spirits into a stone jar
of three gallons capacity; cover closely, and let it stand for
eight days.
     Filter the liquor, and add it to the solution of oil and
ammonia. Bottle for use.
     This quantity is sufficient for flavoring xoo gallons
of brandy.
                                                                 o


                        ...282...

                 ESSENCE        OF   LEMON


One ounce of oil of lemon.       One-half pint of water.
One quart of alcohol (py per     One and one-half ounces of
  cent).                             citric acid.
Grind the citric acid to a powder in a porcelain mortar;
dissolve it in the water. Then cut the oil of lemon in the
alcohol, and add the acid water.



                         •• ■    3.••
                     LEMON       SYR     P


Five gallons of gum syrup.       One ounce of oil of lemon.
Four ounces of tartaric acid.    One pint of alcohol.
Cut the oil of lemon in the alcohol, add the tartaric acid,
and mix thoroughly with the syrup.

                                                        1
         THE BON VIVANT's COMPANION




                       GUM    SYRUP


Fourteen pounds of loaf su-    One gallon of water,
  gar.

Boil together for five minutes, and add water to make up to
two gallons.
                        ...285...
                AROMATIC TINCTURE

One ounce of ginger.           One-half ounce of valerian.
One ounce of cinnamon.         Two quarts of alcohol.
One ounce of orange peel.
Macerate the ingredients in the alcohol in a close vessel
for fourteen days, then filter through filtering paper. This
is sometimes employed to give a flavor to milk punch, hut
it must he used with precaution. Ten drops are sufficient
for a pint of punch.
                        ... 2 86...
               tincture of       CINNAMON

Place two pounds of ground cinnamon in a jar with one
gallon 95 per cent alcohol, closely covered. At the end of
eight days strain the liquor clear; wash the sediment with
one quart proof spirits; strain it; mix the two liquors to
gether, and filter through blotting paper.

                        ...287...
                TINCTURE OF CLOVES

Take one pound of ground cloves; warm them over a fire
until quite hot; put them quickly into a jar, pour on them
one gallon 95 per cent alcohol, cover them airtight, and
let them stand for ten days. Draw off into bottles and cork
close.
   150
                                     I




Scene at the Stage Door of a New York Theater in 1868
-U.Vi—,   ....
     SYRUPS, ESSENCES, TINCTURES, ETC.


                          ...288...
          TINCTURE         OF     ORANGE      PEEL


One pound of dried orange          One gallon of spirits (p5 per
  peel {ground).                     cent).
Place them in a closely corked vessel for ten days. Strain
and bottle for use.


                          ...2 89...
           TINCTURE         OF     LEMON     PEEL


Cut into small chips the peel of twelve large lemons. Place
it in a glass jar and pour over it one gallon spirits, 70 per
cent. Let it stand until the lemon peel has all sunk to the
bottom of the liquor. It is then ready for use without either
filtering or straining.

                          ■ ••2

              TINCTURE            OF   AELSPICE


This is prepared in the same manner as tincture of cinna
mon, using ground allspice instead of cinnamon.




                                                          ^53
                 Temperance Drinks
                        ...291...

                 MILK     AND    SELTZER

                    Use large soda glass

Fill the glass half full of milk, and the remaining half with
seltzer water.



                         ... 2 9 2 ...

                 LEMONADE        POWDERS


One pound of finely-powdered loaf sugar, one ounce of
tartaric or citric acid, and twenty drops of essence of lemon.
Mix, and keep very dry. Two or three teaspoonfuls of this
stirred briskly in a tumbler of water will make a very
pleasant glass of lemonade. If effervescent lemonade be de
sired, one ounce of carbonate of soda must be added to
the above.




                       L EM O N A DE

                    Use large bar glass
The rind of two'lemons.         One-half    pound    of loaf
Juice of three large lemons.      sugar.
                                One quart of boiling water.
  154
                TEMPERANCE         DRINKS


Rub some of the sugar, in lumps, on two of the lemons until
they have imbibed all the oil from them, and put it with the
remainder of the sugar into a jug; add the lemon juice (but
no pits) and pour over the whole a quart of boiling water.
When the sugar has dissolved, strain the lemonade through
a piece of muslin, and, when cool, it will be ready for use.
     The lemonade will be much improved by having the
white of an egg beaten up with it; a little sherry mixed with
it also makes this beverage much nicer.


                        • • •2

                      OR AN G E A D E


This agreeable beverage is made the same way as lemon
ade, substituting oranges for lemons.


                        ...2 95...
                 ORGEAT      LEMONADE

                     Use large bar glass

One-halj wineglass of or-        The juice of half a lemon,
  geat syrup.
Fill the tumbler one-third full of ice, and balance with
water. Shake well, and ornament with berries in season.


                        ...296...
                 GINGER      LEMONADE

Boil twelve pounds and a half of lump sugar for twenty
minutes in ten gallons of water; clear it with the whites of
six eggs. Bruise half a pound of common ginger, boil with
the liquor, and then pour it upon ten lemons pared. When
quite cold, put it in a cask, with two tablespoonfuls of yeast,
                                                        155
           THE   BON    VIVANT'S      COMPANION

the lemons sliced, and half an ounce of isinglass. Bung up
the cask the next day; it will be ready in two weeks.


                         ...297...
                   SODA      LEMONADE

                      Use large soda glass

One and one-half table-          One bottle of plain soda
  spoonfuls of powdered            water,
   white sugar.                  Two or three small lumps of
Juice of half a lemon.             ice.
Stir up well, and remove the ice before serving.
    Seltzer Lemonade may be made by substituting seltzer
water for the soda.

                         ...298...
                    EGG    LEMO NADE

                      Use large bar glass

One large tablespoonful of       One fresh egg.
  pulverized white sugar.        Two or three small lumps of
Juice of half a lemon.            ice.
Shake up thoroughly, strain into a soda-water glass and fill
up the glass with soda or seltzer water. Ornament with
berries.

                         .,.299...

                      SODA     NECTAR

                      Use large tumbler

Juice of one lemon.             Powdered white sugar to
Three-quarters    tumblerful       taste,
  of water.                     One-half small teaspoonful
                                   of carbonate of soda.
  156
                    TEMPERANCE       DRINKS


Strain the juice of the lemon, and add it to the water, with
sufficient white sugar to sweeten the whole nicely. When
well mixed, put in the soda, stir well, and drink while the
mixture is in an effervescing state.


                         ...300...
            DRINK FOR          THE   DQG DAYS

A BOTTLE of soda water poured into a large goblet, in which
a lemon ice has been placed, forms a deliciously cool and
refreshing drink; but should be taken with some care, and
positively avoided whilst you are very hot.



                         SHERBET


Eight ounces of carbonate of soda, six ounces of tartaric
acid, two pounds of loaf sugar (finely powdered), three
drachms of essence of lemon. Let the powders be very dry.
Mix them intimately, and keep them for use in a wide-
mouthed bottle, closely corked. Put two good-sized tea-
spoonfuls into a tumbler; pour in half a pint of cold water,
stir briskly, and drink off.


                        ...302...
                    LEMON      SHERBET

Four lemons sliced, four ounces of lump sugar, one quart of
boiling water. Very fine. A cheaper drink may be made thus:
One ounce of cream of tartar, one ounce tartaric or citric
acid, the juice and peel of two lemons, and half a pound, or
more, of loaf sugar. The sweetening must be regulated ac
cording to taste.
                                                      IS7
           THE BON VIVANT's COMPANION


                           ...303...
        IMPERIAL          DRINK       FOR    FAMILIES


Two ounces of cream of tartar, the juice and peel of two
or three lemons, and half a pound of coarse sugar. Put these
into a gallon pitcher, and pour on boiling water. When cool
it will be fit for use.


                          ...304...

                           NECTAR


One drachm of citric acid, one scruple of bicarbonate of
potash, one ounce of white sugar, powdered. Fill a soda-
water bottle nearly full of water, drop in the potash and
sugar, and lastly the citric acid. Cork the bottle up immedi
ately, and shake. As soon as the crystals are dissolved, the
nectar is fit for use. It may be colored with a small portion
of cochineal.


                          •• • 3 ® 5 • • •
    RASPBERRY, STRAWBERRY,CURRANT
            OR    ORANGE        EFFERVESCING

                          DRAUGHT S


Take one quart of the juice of either of the above fruits,
filter it, and boil it into a syrup, with one pound of powdered
loaf sugar. To this add one ounce and a half of tartaric acid.
When cold put it into a bottle, and keep it well corked.
When required for use, fill a half-pint tumbler three parts
full of water, and add two tablespoonfuls of the syrup. Then
stir in briskly a small teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, and
a very delicious drink will be formed. The color may be
improved by adding a very small portion of cochineal to the
syrup at the time of boiling.
  1S8
                 TEMPERANCE        DRINKS



                         ...306...
                     GINGER      WINE


Put twelve pounds of loaf sugar and six ounces of powdered
ginger into six gallons of water; let it boil for an hour, then
beat up the whites of half a dozen eggs with a whisk, and
mix them well with the liquor. WTien quite cold put it into a
barrel, with six lemons cut into slices, and a cupful of yeast;
let it work for three days, then put it in the bung. In a
week's time you may bottle it, and it will be ready for
immediate use.




                                                        159
                            Index
       (Figures refer to number of recipe, not to the page.)

Absinthe, i8o                     Bishop, English, 139
Absinthe Cocktail, 103            Bishop, Protestant, 143
Absinthe, French Method of         Bitters, Jerry Thomas's Own
  Serving, i8r                      Decanter, 159
Absinthe and Water, 182           Bitters and Sherry, 178
Ale Flip, 217                     Black Stripe, 161
Ale Flip, Hot English, 218        Blue Blazer, 158
Ale Punch, 73                     Bourbon     Cocktail for      Bot
Ale Sangaree, 274                    tling, 114
Allspice, Tincture of, 290        Bourbon Whiskey Punch, Es
Apple Punch, 72                     sence OF, FOR Bottling, 86
Apple Toddy, 259                  Bottle Cocktail, 90
Archbishop, 140                   Bottled Velvet A la Sir John
'Arf and 'Arf, 157                  Bayley, 133
Aromatic Tincture, 285            Brace-Up, Saratoga, 153
Arrack Punch, 50                  Brandy and Ginger Ale, 173
Arrack Punch (another recipe),    Brandy and Gum, 176
  51                              Brandy and Soda, 175
Arrack Punch, Essence of, for     Brandy and Soda, Split, 172
  Bottling, 88                    Brandy Champerelle, 123
                                  Brandy Cocktail, 91
Badminton, 151                    Brandy     Cocktail   for     Bot
Balaklava NEcrrAR (for a party       tling, III
  of fifteen), 126                Brandy     Cocktail   for     Bot
Baltimore Egg Nogg, 186             tling (another recipe), 112
Barbadoes Punch, 70               Brandy Cocktail, Fancy, 92
Bimbo Punch, 52                   Brandy Cocktail, Improved, 93
Bishop, 138                       Brandy Crusta, 115
Bishop, a la Prusse, 137          Brandy Daisy, 244
                                                               161
                                INDEX


Brandy Fix, 252                    Cider Nectar, 132
Brandy Fiz, 224                    Cider Punch, 74
Brandy Flip, 208                   Cinnamon, Tincture of, 286
Brandy Flip, Cold, 209             Claret and Champagne Cup, A
Brandy Flip, Hot, 210                LA Brunow (for a party of
Brandy Julep, 191                    twenty), 125
Brandy, Pony, 174                  Claret Cobbler, 242
Brandy Punch, i                    Claret Cup, 129
Brandy Punch (for a party of       Claret, Mulled, 202
  twenty), 2                       Claret Punch, 13
Brandy Punch, Essence of, for      Claret Wine Punch, Essence
  Bottling, 87                       of, for Bottling, 82
Brandy and Rum Punch, Hot          Cloves, Tincture of, 287
  (for a party of fifteen), 4      Cobbler, Catawba, 240
Brandy Sangaree, 272              Cobbler, Champagne, 239
Brandy Scaffa, 124                Cobbler, Claret, 242
Brandy Shrub, 234                 Cobbler, Hock, 241
Brandy Sling, 265                 Cobbler, Sauterne, 243
Brandy Smash, 229                 Cobbler, Sherry, 238
Brandy Sour, 257                  Cobbler, Whiskey, 237
Brandy Straight, 170              Cocktail, Absinthe, 103
Brandy Toddy, 260                 Cocktail, Bottle, 90
Brandy, Tom Collins, 250          Cocktail, Brandy, 91
Burnt Brandy and Peach, 160       Cocktail, Brandy, Fancy, 92
                                  Cocktail, Brandy, for Bot
California   Mhk     Punch for      tling, III
  Bottling, 89                    Cocktail, Brandy, for Bot
Canadian Punch, 48                  tling (another recipe), 112
Capillaire, 65                    Cocktail, Brandy, Improved, 93
Capillaire (another recipe), 66   Cocktail, Champagne, 100
Caramel, 280                      Cocktah, Gin, 96
Cardinal, 141                     Cocktah, Gin, for Bottling,
Catawba Cobbler, 240                113
Champagne Cobbler, 239            Cocktah, Gin, Fancy, 97
Champagne Cocktah, 100            Cocktail, Gin, Improved, 98
Champagne, Hock or Chablis        Cocktah, Japanese, ioi
  Cup, 131                        Cocktah, Jersey, 102
Champagne Punch, ii               Cocktail, Manhattan, 109
Champerelle, Brandy, 123          Cocktah, Martini (Martinez),
Cherry Shrub, 230                  105
Cider, Mulled, 203                Cocktah, Morning Glory, 107
  162
                               INDEX


Cocktail, Saratoga, gg               Daisy, Brandy, 244
Cocktail, Soda, io6                  Daisy, Gin, 247
Cocktail, Vermouth, iio              Daisy, Santa Cruz Rum, 246
Cocktail, Vermouth, Fancy,           Daisy, Whiskey, 245
 104                                 Dog Days, Drink for the, 300
Cocktail, Whiskey, g4                Dry Punch, 37
Cocktail, Whiskey, Improved,         Duke of Norfolk Punch, sg
 95                                  Duke of Norfolk Punch (an
Coffee Cocktail, 108                   other recipe), 60
Cognac, Essence of, 281
Cold Brandy Flip, 2og                Effervescing Draughts, Rasp
Cold Gin Flip, 211                     berry, Strawberry, Currant
Cold Punch, 53                         OR Orange, 305
Cold Rum Flip, 206                   Egg Flip, 2ig
Cold Whiskey Flip, 213               Egg Flip (another recipe), 220
Cold Whiskey Punch, 7                Egg Lemonade, 2g8
Coloring, Solferino, 27g             Egg Milk Punch, 24
Columbia Skin, 278                   Egg Nogg, 183
CouPEREE, West Indian, i4g           Egg Nogg (for a party of forty),
Crimean Cup, a la Marmora              18S
 (for a party of thirty),            Egg Nogg, Baltimore, 186
  127                                Egg Nogg, General Harrison's,
Crimean Cup, A la Wyndham              187
 (for a party of five), 128          Egg Nogg, Hot, 184
Crusta, Brandy, 115                  Egg Nogg, Sherry, 188
Crusta, Gin, 117                     Egg AND Sherry, 177
Crusta, Whiskey, 116                 Egg Sour, 258
Cup, Champagne, Hock            or   Eggs, Mulled Wine with, igg
  Chablis, 131                       Eggs, Mulled Wine with
Cup, Claret, i2g                       Whites of, 200
Cup, Claret and Champagne A          El Dorado Punch, 78
  LA Brunow (for party of            English Bishop, i3g
  twenty), 125                       English Curaqao, 146
Cup, Crimean, A la Marmora           English Milk Punch, 25
 (for a party of thirty), 127        English Milk Punch (another
Cup, Crimean, A la Wyndham             recipe), 26
  (for a party of five), 128         English Rum Shrub, 236
Cup, Porter, 130                     Essence of Arrack Punch for
Curaqao, English, 146                  Bottling, 88
CuRAQAO Punch, ig                    Essence of Bourbon Punch
Currant Shrub, 232                     FOR Bottling, 86
                                                              163
                              INDEX


Essence of Brandy Punch for         Flip, Rum (another recipe), 205
  Bottling, 87                      Ford, Punch a la, 27
Essence of Claret Punch for
  Bottling, 82                      General HL\rrison's Egg Nogg,
Essence of Cognac, 281                187
Essence     of   Kirschwasser       Gin Cocktail, 96
  Punch for Bottling, 83            Gin Cocktail, Fancy, 97
Essence of Lemon, 282               Gin Cocktail for Bottling, 113
Essence of St. Domingo Punch        Gin Cocktail, Improved, 98
  FOR Bottling, 84                  Gin Crusta, 117
                                    Gin Daisy, 247
Faivre's Pousse-cafe, 121           Gin Fix, 253
Families, Imperial Drink for,       Gin Fiz, 225
  303                               Gin Flip, Cold, 211
Fix, Brandy, 252                    Gin Flip, Hot, 212
Fix, Gin, 253                       Gin Julep, 192
Fix, Santa Cruz, 254                Gin Punch, 9
Fix, Whiskey, 251                   Gin Punch (Soyer's recipe), 10
Fiz, Brandy, 224                    Gin Punch for Bottling, 85
Fiz, Gin, 225                       Gin and Pine, 163
Fiz, Golden, 221                    Gin Sangaree, 273
Fiz, Santa Cruz, 222                Gin Sling, 268
Fiz, Silver, 226                    Gin Smash, 227
Fiz, Whiskey, 223                   Gin Sour, 255
Flip, Ale, 217                      Gin Straight, 171
Flip, Brandy, 208                   Gin and Tansy, 164
Flip, Cold Brandy, 209              Gin Toddy, 263
Flip, Cold Gin, 211                 Gin, Tom Collins, 249
Flip, Cold Rum, 206                 Gin and Wormwood, 165
Flip, Cold Whiskey, 213             Ginger Ale and Brandy, 173
Flip, Egg, 219                      Ginger Lemonade, 296
Flip, Egg    (another    recipe),   Ginger Wine, 306
  220                               Glasgow Punch, 29
Flip, English Rum, 207              Golden Fiz, 221
Flip, Hot Brandy, 210               Gothic Punch (for a party of
Flip, Hot English Ale, 218           ten), 62
Flip, Hot Gin, 212                  Grassot,Punch, 44
Flip, Hot Whiskey, 214              Gum Syrup, 284
Flip, Port Wine, 215
Flip, Sherry Wine, 216              Half and Half, 156
Flip, Rum, 204                      Hock Cobbler, 241
  164
                          INDEX


Honey and Peach, 162            Lemon Peel, Tincture of, 289
Hot Ale Flip, English, 218      Lemon Sherbet, 302
Hot Brandy Flip, 210            Lemon Syrup, 283
Hot Brandy Sling, 266           Lemonade, 293
Hot Brandy Toddy, 261           Lemonade, Egg, 298
Hot Egg Nogg, 184               Lemonade, Ginger, 296
Hot Gin Flip, 212               Lemonade, Italian, 147
Hot Gin Toddy, 264              Lemonade, Orgeat, 295
Hot Rum, 167                    Lemonade Powders, 292
Hot Rum Flip, English, 207      Lemonade, Soda, 297
Hot Rum, Spiced, 166            Liqueur, Quince, 148
Hot Whiskey Flip, 214           Locomotive, 152
Hot Whiskey Sling, 267
                                Manhattan Cocktail, 109
Ice and Sherry, 179             Maraschino Punch, 81
Imperial Drink for Families,    Martinez (Martini) Cocktail,
  303                             105
Imperial Punch, 41              Medford Rum Punch, 80
Imperial Raspberry Whiskey      Milk Punch, 21
  Punch, 77                     Milk Punch, Hot, 22
Irish Whiskey Punch, 8          Milk and Seltzer, 291
Irish Whiskey Skin, 277         Milk, White Tiger's, 135
Italian Lemonade, 147           Mint Julep, 190
                                Mint Julep, Real Georgia,
Japanese Cocktail, ioi
Jelly, Punch, 28                  189
Jerry Thomas's Own Decan        Mississippi Punch, 3
  ter Bitters, 159              Morning Glory Cocktail, 107
Jersey Cocktail, 102            Mulled Cider, 203
Julep, Brandy, 191              Mulled Claret, 202
Julep, Gin, 192                 Mulled Wine (in verse), 201
Julep, Mint, 190                Mulled Wine with Eggs, 199
Julep, Pineapple, 194           Mulled Wine with Whites of
Julep, Real Georgia Mint, 189     Eggs, 200
Julep, Whiskey, 193             Mulled Wine without Eggs,
                                  198
Kirschwasser Punch, Essence
  OF, for Bottling, 83          National Guard, Seventh Reg
Knickerbocker, 144                iment, Punch, 33
                                Nectar, 304
La Patria Punch (for party of   Nectar, Balaklava (for a party
  twenty), 38                     of fifteen), 126
                                                       165




                                                                 '   ■
                             INDEX


 Nectar, CrosR A la Harold        Powders, Lemonade, 292
   Littledale, 132                Protestant Bishop, 143
 Nectar Punch, 75                 Punch, Ale, 73
 Nectar, Soda, 299                Punch, Apple, 72
 Negus, Port Wine, 195            Punch, Arrack, 50
 Negus, Port Wine (another        Punch, Arrack (another re
   recipe), 196                     cipe), 51
  Negus, Soda, 197               Punch,   Arrack, Essence of, for
 Non-Such Punch, 47                 Bottling, 88
 Nuremburgh Punch (for a Punch, Barbadoes, 70
    party of fifteen), 54       Punch, Bimbo, 52
                                Punch, Bourbon Whiskey, Es
 Orangeade, 294                    sence OF, FOR Bottling, 86
 Orange Peel, Tincture of, 288 Punch, Brandy, i
 Orange Punch, 76               Punch, Brandy (for a party of
 Orgeat Lemonade, 29s              twenty), 2
 Oxford Punch, 63               Punch, Brandy, Essence of,
                                   FOR Bottling, 87
 Parisian Pousse-cafe, 120      Punch, Brandy and Rum, Hot
 Peach, Burnt Brandy and, 160      (for a party of fifteen), 4
 Peach and Honey, 162           Punch, California Mhk, for
Phhadelphia Fish-House             Bottling, 89
   Punch, 46                    Punch, Canadian, 48
 Pine and Gin, 163              Punch, Century Club, 58
 Pineapple Julep, 194           Punch, Champagne, ii
Pineapple Punch (for a party Punch, Cider, 74
   of ten), 17                  Punch, Claret, 13
Pope, 142                      Punch,    Claret, Essence of, for
Port Wine Flip, 215                Bottling,  82
Port Wine Negus, 19s           Punch, Cold, 53
Port Wine Negus (another Punch, CuRAgAo, 19
   recipe), 196                Punch, Dry, 37
Port Wine Punch, 15            Punch, Duke of Norfolk, 59
Port Wine Sangaree, 270        Punch, Duke of Norfolk (an
Porter Cup, 130                   other recipe), 60
Porter Sangaree, 275           Punch, Egg Mhk, 24
Pousse-cafe, Faivre's, 121     Punch, El Dorado, 78
Pousse-cafe, Parisian, 120     Punch, English Milk, 25
Pousse-cafe, Santina, 119      Punch, English Milk (an
Pousse-cafe, Saratoga, 122        other recipe), 26
Pousse L'Amour, 118            Punch a la Ford, 27
  166
r




                               INDEX


    Punch, Gin, q                     Punch, Raspberry, 32
    Punch, Gin (Soyer's recipe), lo   Punch, Regent's, 31
    Punch, Gin, for Bottling, 85      Punch, Regent's (for a party of
    Punch, Glasgow, 29                  twenty), 30
    Punch, Gothic (for a party of     Punch, Rocky Mountain (for
      ten), 62                          a mixed party of twenty), 43
    Punch, Grassot, 44                Punch a la Romaine (for a
    Punch, Imperial      Raspberry      party of fifteen), 67
      Whiskey, 77                     Punch, Roman, 20
    Punch, Imperial, 41               Punch, Rochester, 40
    Punch, Irish Whiskey, 8           Punch, Royal, 57
    Punch, Jelly, 28                  Punch, Ruby, 56
    Punch, Kirschwasser, Essence      Punch, Sauterne, 14
      OF, FOR Bottling, 83            Punch, Scotch Whiskey, 5
    Punch, La Patria (for a party     Punch, Seventh Regiment,
      of twenty), 38                    National Guard, 33
    Punch, Light Guard (for a         Punch, Sherry, 12
      party of twenty), 45            Punch, Sixty-ninth Regiment,
    Punch,Louisiana Sugar House,        35
      36                              Punch, Spread Eagle, 39
    Punch, Manhattan Milk, 23         Punch, St. Charles, 34
    Punch, Maraschino, 81             Punch, St. Domingo, Essence
    Punch, Medford Rum, 80              OF, FOR Bottling, 84
    Punch, Milk, 21                   Punch, Tea, 68
    Punch, Milk, Hot, 22              Punch, Tip-Top (for a party of
    Punch, Mississippi, 3               five), 49
    Punch, National Guard Sev         Punch, Uncle Toby, 64
      enth Regiment, 33               Punch, United Service, 55
    Punch, Nectar, 75                 Punch, Vanilla, 16
    Punch, Non-Such, 47               Punch, Victoria, or Thirty-
    Punch, Nuremburgh (for a            Second Regiment, 42
      party of fifteen), 54           Punch, West Indian, 69
    Punch, Orange, 76                 Punch, Whiskey, 6
    Punch, Orgeat, 18                 Punch, Whiskey, Cold, 7
    Punch, Oxford, 63                 Punch, Yorkshire, 71
    Punch, Philadelphia      Fish-
      House, 46                       Queen Punch, 61
    Punch, Pineapple (for a party     Quince Liqueur, 148
      of ten), 17
    Punch, Port Wine, 15              Raspberry Punch, 32
    Punch, Queen, 61                  Raspberry, Strawberry, Cur-
                                                              167
                             INDEX


  RANT   OR   Orange    Efferves   Seltzer, Milk and, 291
  cent Draughts, 305               Seltzer, Rhine Wine and,
Raspberry Shrub, 233                 169
Real Georgia Mint Julep, 189       Seventh Regiment, National
Regent's Punch (for a party          Guard, Punch, 33
  of twenty), 30                   Shandy Gaff, 155
Regent's Punch, 31                 Sherbet, 301
Rhine Wine and Seltzer, 169        Sherbet, Lemon, 302
Rochester Punch, 40                Sherry and Bitters, 178
Rocky Mountain Punch (for a        Sherry Cobbler, 238
  mixed party of twenty), 43       Sherry and Egg, 177
Roman Punch, 20                    Sherry Egg Nogg, 188
Royal Punch, 57                    Sherry and Ice, 179
Ruby Punch, 56                     Sherry Punch, 12
Rum Flip, 204                      Sherry Sangaree, 271
Rum Flip (another recipe), 205     Sherry Wine Flip, 216
Rum Flip, Cold, 206                Shrub, Brandy, 234
Rum Flip, Hot, English, 207        Shrub, Cherry, 230
Rum, Hot, 167                      Shrub, Currant, 232
Rum, Hot, Spiced, 166              Shrub, Currant, White, 231
Rum Shrub, 235                     Shrub, English Rum, 236
Rumfustian, 14s                    Shrub, Raspberry, 233
                                   Shrub, Rum, 235
Sangaree, Ale, 274                 Silver Fiz, 226
Sangaree, Brandy, 272              Sixty-Ninth Regiment Punch,
Sangaree, Gin, 273                   35
Sangaree, Porter, 275              Skin, Columbia, 278
Sangaree, Port Wine, 270           Skin, Irish Whiskey, 277
Sangaree, Sherry, 271              Skin, Scotch Whiskey, 276
Santa Cruz Fix, 254                Soda and Brandy, 175
Santa Cruz Fiz, 222                Soda Cocktail, 106
Santa Cruz Rum Daisy, 246          Soda Lemonade, 297
Santa Cruz Sour, 256               Soda Nectar, 299
Santina Pousse-cafe, 119           Soda Negus, 197
Saratoga Brace-Up, 153             Soda, Split and Brandy, 172
Saratoga Cocktail, 99              Sour, Brandy, 257
Saratoga Pousse-cafe, 122          Sour, Egg, 258
Sauterne Cobbler, 243              Sour, Gin, 255
Sauterne Punch, 14                 Sour, Santa Cruz, 256
ScAFFA, Brandy, 124                Sleeper, 150
Scotch Whiskey Skin, 276           Sling, Brandy, 265
  168
                            INDEX


Sling, Brandy, Hot, 266          Vanilla Punch, 16
Sling, Gin, 268                  Velvet, Bottled, a la Sir John
Sling, Whiskey, 269                Bayley, 133
Sling, Whiskey, Hot, 267         Vermouth Cocktail, iio
SoLFERiNO Coloring, 279          Vermouth Cocktail, Fancy,
Spread Eagle Punch, 39             104
St. Charles Punch, 34            Victoria, or Thirty-second
St. Domingo Punch, Essence of,     Regiment, Punch, 42
  FOR Bottling, 84
Stone Fence, 168                 Water and Absinthe, 182
Stone Wall, 175                  West Indian Punch, 69
Straight Gin, 171                West Indian Couperee, 149
Syrup, Gum, 284                  Whiskey Cobbler, 237
Syrup, Lemon, 283                Whiskey Cocktail, 94
                                 Whiskey Cocktail, Improved,
Tansy and Gin, 164                 95
Tea Punch, 68                    Whiskey Crusta, 116
Thirty-second Regiment, or       Whiskey Daisy, 245
  Victoria, Punch, 42            Whiskey Fdc, 251
Tincture of Allspice, 290        Whiskey Fiz, 223
Tincture, Aromatic, 285          Whiskey Flip, Cold, 213
Tincture of Cinnamon, 286        Whiskey Flip, Hot, 214
Tincture of Cloves, 287          Whiskey Julep, 193
Tincture of Lemon Peel, 289      Whiskey, Tom Collins, 248
Tincture of Orange Peel,         Whiskey Sling, 269
  288                            Whiskey Smash, 228
Tip-Top Punch (for a party of    Whiskey Punch, 6
  fifteen), 49                   Whiskey Punch, Cold, 7
Toddy, Apple, 259                Whiskey Toddy, 262
Toddy, Brandy, 260               White Currant Shrub, 231
Toddy, Brandy, Hot, 261          White Lion, 136
Toddy, Gin, 263                  White Plush, 154
Toddy, Gin, Hot, 264             White Tiger's Milk, 135
Toddy, Whiskey, 262              Wine, Mulled ivith Eggs, 199
Tom Collins Brandy, 250          Wine, Mulled with the
Tom Collins Gin, 249               Whites of Eggs, 200
Tom Collins Whiskey, 248         Wine, Mulled without Eggs,
Tom and Jerry, 134                 198
                                 Wormwood and Gin, 165
Uncle Toby Punch, 64
United Service Punch, 55         Yorkshire Punch, 71
                                                         169
            ''l ■
              1

            • 'l




            'S
            ■ l'''l




                    . V'.'V,
■   ■   ■              rfi 1   I
mmm




                Christopher DAorley says
             on page 272 oj his latest hook


               "Internal
                Revenue"
         Herbert Asbury's reprint edition of Jerry
      Thomas sBon Vivant's Companion, orHoiv
      to Mix Drinks (first published in 1862) is
      an admirable contribution to our social
      history. Jerry Thomas's fame is secure; as
      the inventor of the Tom and Jerry his glory,
      I hope, endureth as long as men remember
      how cold weather used to be mitigated."
                                       O
                  I




                                         i
Professor ferry Thomas Preparing a Blue Blazer at the old Metropolitan



Who WaT Jerry Thomas^
In his delightful introduction to Professor Thomas' famous
volumi iof time-tried recipes, Herbert Asbury, author of
"Barbary Coast", says:
  "Jerry Thomas was the greatest drink mixer of his age;
his praises were sung by enlightened and Christian men from
the Gulf of Mexico to the barren coast of Maine, from the
Golden Gate to Broadway. It was Jerry Thomas—rise, please
—who invented those celebrated cold weather beverages
which have come down to us as the Blue Blazer and the
Tojn and ferry.
  The day he was born his fond parents looked down at the
wailing babe and dedicated him, to the Ministry. He grew
up, however, to administer to the awakened palates of mil
lions of his fellowmen.

        There are still no drinks like the old drinks:,
       like those ferry Thomas showered upon a de-
     . lighted world many years ago, and you'll find
       more then 300 of them in this netv edition of

                "HOW TO MIX DRINKS"
