                    i
•?




AND   HOW   TO   MIX THEM"
          ■ !*3^




Vi-,: V




                   Mi
                        *'.^V <j
        "COCKTAIL BILL" BOOTHBY'S


         WORLD DRINKS
         AND HOW TO                     MIX THEM




                   THE STANDARD AUTHORITY
                      As Originally Compiled by         _
                     HON. WM. T. BOOTHBY
                         Premier Mixologist




                            Price $1.00




                                                            *■"




              Completely revised and greatly enlarged
              into an unabridged encyclopedia of
              ALL POPULAR BEVERAGES




lillliiiM ^
m




               Copyright MCMXXX

              Copyright MCMXXXIV
                       by
         BOOTHBY'S WORLD DRINKS CO.

            99 South Van Ness Avenue
                 San Francisco




                   PHINTED BY

    THE RECORDER PRINTING & PUBLISHING CO.
            San Francisco, Calilornia
CONT                                 E          NT                S
                                                                 Page

Foreword                                                        5- 8

Cocktails                                                       9-183

Highballs                                                      184-200

Fizzes                                                         201-206

Juleps                                                         207-209

Rickeys                                                        210-212

Individual Punches                                             213-225
            Including Coolers and other Thirst Quenchers

Sangarees and Slings                                           226-228
Hot Beverages                                                  229-234
                       Toddies, Punches, Etc.


Miscellaneous                                                  235-249

Party Beverages                                                250-261
                  Punches, Sherbets, Shrubs, Etc.

Wines—Their Selection and Service...                           263-270




                                                                         ■' '
                                                . ..   ai 'M
      i -' ■ ■
 m'/:
 W'>.:'-j -r ■




                        V



m.:



      'v.,/,(:; •
  '■S '             '
FOREWORD
   Alcoholic beverages, in one form or another, have played a goodly
part in the daily life of a large percentage of the human race from the
days of the Pharaohs. Man began in Egypt, with a species of wine
termed arack, later he invented spirituous, or distilled, liquors, and yet
later discovered that by the intelligent blending of one liquor, or
beverage, with others the product resulted in a concoction more pleas
ing to the average palate.
   Thus, step by step, was handed down to modern mankind so-called
"mixed drinks". Slowly these have been evolved into what is now
known as "Cocktails", by all odds the favorite, and decidedly the most
fashionable beverage of all times. Among other popular mixed bev
erages, each of which has its quota of devotees, are the highball, fizz,
rickey, julep, cobbler, punch and many others.
    The policy of the publisher, in compiling this publication, has been,
not to pick and choose from among the many recipes emanating from
sections throughout the world, but to place before the public all available
recipes so that it might choose that which most appeals to its taste.
    It also has been the policy of the publisher to refrain, for obvious
reasons, from specifying trade names of whiskies, gins, etc., etc. Suffice
it to say that rye whiskies are preferred by most in the preparation
of beverages containing whisky. However, bourbon or Scotch may
very well be used, and after one or two trials, the other ingredients
be modified to suit the individual taste.
    No beverage selected for a gathering may be expected to please
all tastes. Therefore it must be the duty of the host to select that
certain one which in his opinion is most likely to meet with the
favor of the majority present. This is best determined by diplomatic
inquiry, either when inviting guests or following their arrival.
   All recipes in this work, with such few exceptions as are noted,
have been figured for the preparation of one drink. By this standard
ization of recipes the home mixer will be aided greatly in the serving
of any number of guests, as it is but a simple problem to multiply
each ingredient by the total number of those present.
   The home mixer should bear in mind a few general hints necessary
to the proper preparation of mixed drinks, or cocktails.
   Measurements should be exact and close attention paid to the in
gredients called for in the recipes. Other ingredients may produce a
wonderful beverage, but they will not produce that called for in the
recipe.
                BOOTHBY'S       WORLD      DRINKS


   Implements for measuring, used herein, are: jigger—two fluid
ounces; poay—one fluid ounce; spoon—a bar spoon holding about one-
half teaspoon.
   An ordinary tablespoon holds half an ounce.
   A spoon of dry ingredient, such as sugar, should be level, not
rounded.
   Sugar syrup is called for in many recipes. This is for the conven
ience of the mixer, but dry sugar, one spoon to one of water, may be
substituted, if wished. Sugar syrup is prepared as follows:
       Stir 4 pounds of cane sugar into 1 quart of boiling water
      and allow to boil for a few minutes. Remove from stove,
      add enough hot water to make two quarts and bottle for
      use.

   Sweet-sour likewise is very frequently named.     This preparation
also is for convenience, but should none be available, equal parts
of sugar and strained lemon juice may be substituted. Sweet-sour is
prepared as follows:
      To one tumbler of sugar syrup add one-half tumbler of
      strained lemon juice. Stir well and the preparation is
      ready for use, or
      To one tumbler of strained lemon juice add sufficient
      sugar to double the quantity. Add one tumbler of water
      and stir well.
   Either sweet-sour, or sugar syrup, as described above, may be
prepared in advance, as either will keep indefinitely if stored in a
reasonably cool place.
   Pineapple syrup is prepared as follows:
      To one tumbler of unsweetened pineapple juice add one
      tumbler of sugar syrup, or one-half tumbler sugar with
      one-half tumbler water. Stir well and store in a cool
      place for future use. The juice from canned pineapple
      already sweetened may be substituted.
   For orange syrup, proceed as follows:
      To one tumbler of juice, from well-ripened oranges, add
      one-quarter tumbler of sugar and stir well. Into this mix
      ture place three or four strips of very thin orange peel,
      twisted, strain into a bottle and store in a cool place.
   In many recipes lime juice is specified, while in others, lemon. This
is in accordance with the original recipe, but lemon may be used in
either case, with substantially the same result. Never, however, use
lime peel in place of lemon peel, as the former has a decidedly acrid
flavor and is very distasteful to many.
                              FOREWORD



    When preparing lemon or orange peel, trim very thin so as to
avoid, as much as is possible, the white pulp immediately underlying
the rind. Unless called for in recipe, do not place either in the bever
age—merely twist over the completed cocktail after it has been poured
and is about to be served.
    Ice, for cooling or chilling beverages, is used in three forms, viz.:
shaved—cut from a block with an ice shaver; cracked—rolled in a
towel and crushed into half-inch lumps with a mallet or potato masher;
lump—the size made in an electric refrigerator, or slightly larger.
   Ice chills beverages in direct proportion to the rapidity of its own
destruction (melting). Therefore the more area (surface) of ice ex
posed, the more rapid will be its action.
   This would seem to point to the use of shaved ice exclusively,
but another element enters into the calculation.
   The action of shaking being much more violent and rapid than
that of stirring, a satisfactory result may be attained, with much less
dilution to the final product, by following the general rules set
forth below:
      For shaking, two or three lumps are used in the shaker;
      for stirring, a half glass of cracked ice is preferable.
      Shaved ice is used in preparing frappes (freezes), juleps,
       etc., and after-dinner liqueurs. It is also used in the prep
       aration of absinthe beverages, which should be very cold.
   When shaking or stirring cocktails, highballs, etc., do so vigorously,
so as not to mix too much water with them. Shaking or stirring is
solely for the purpose of thoroughly mixing and chilling the beverage,
not diluting it. The recipes are figured at the correct strength and any
appreciable quantity of water will render them weak and insipid.
   Keep in mind that gentlemen, as a general rule, prefer their bever
ages dry, or of the less sweet variety. Such cocktails as Manhattan,
Martini, Gibson, etc., etc., are most pleasing to them. While many of
the fair sex follow closely with the men folks in this regard, there are
many others who prefer the richer preparations, such as those con
taining portions of egg, much cordial or syrup. Again, when men only
are to be served, decrease slightly the amount of sugar, syrup or
liqueur called for, or increase the lemon content slightly.
   All recipes herein are prepared for the average taste and the
exact amount of ingredients depends finally upon the individual taste.
   "Bits of |ruits" or "segments", as used herein, are small por
tions of pineapple, orange, etc., as called for, torn into shreds and tossed
into the finished drink. Two or three pieces to the drink are sufficient.
   Beverages to which egg is added are generally termed as follows:
where white only is used—Silver; where yolk only is used—Golden;
                 BOOTHBY'S         WORLD      DRINKS



and where both are used—Royal. In continental Europe, however,
where a beverage contains absinthe, it is termed Royal.
   Use bitters, cordials, syrups, etc., with the greatest caution. A little
too much entirely alters the character of a beverage and, in many
instances, spoils rather than improves it.
    Grate nutmeg, or other spice, over the individual beverage, only
after ascertaining the pleasure of the guest to be served.
   When drawing a cork, or removing a cap, from a bottle containing
Champagne, ginger ale or effervescent water or soda, hold the bottle in
a slanting position, to a point where the surface of the contents is just
below the mouth of the bottle. Retain the bottle in this position for
a few moments after opening and no loss of contents can occur.
   Kecessary accessories for the home mixer should include: Shaker
(metal); stirring glass (16-ounce heavy tumbler); bar strainer (for
use in shaker or stirring glass); pony and jigger (one and two-ounce
measures) (whisky glasses of respective size will suffice); bar spoons
(for stirring and measuring); ice shaver, pick and lemon or orange
extractor.
   A cellarette, from which a great many of the recipes contained
herein may be prepared, should contain: Gin, whisky, brandy, sherry,
curacoa, French and Italian vermouth, angostura, orange bitters, grena
dine, sweet-sour and sugar syrup. To these may be added a few of
the more popular liqueurs, either domestic or imported, such as Coin
treau, Rumola, Benedictine, etc., etc.
   Just because a particular recipe calls for an ingredient not possessed
by the home mixer, he should not become discouraged. He must
remember that many of the finest beverages have been discovered by
the substitution of one syrup or cordial for another, the addition of a
further ingredient or, in some instances, the omission of an ingredient.
   To sum all in a few words, use the head, proceed along sane lines,
mix a few of the "What-have-you" variety, and the knack of knowing
how, and when, will come, along with much experience. Gesundheit!
COCKTAILS
   Cocktails, America's own and, preeminently, her favorite beverage, are
prepared either shaken vsrith ice, or stirred with ice, strained into chilled or
frosted cocktail glasses (2 ounce), a cherry or some other dainty added,
and served.
   To chill a glass, place therein a lump of ice the size of a walnut and,
with a rotating motion, slide the glass so that the ice takes on a spinning
motion. When sufficiently cool, toss out the ice and excess water,
shake or stir the beverage, strain in and serve immediately.
   To frost a glass, first chill it. Then wet the inside rim with a small
piece of lemon, dip into powdered sugar and toss out the excess. Strain
in the beverage, decorate and serve. (This method is used only for
"fancies" or the more elaborate cocktails, and never with dry cock
tails, such as Manhattan, Martini, etc.)
    In the realm of cocktails the infinite variety is limited only by the
ingenuity of the master of ceremonies or host. The slightest substitution
of a cordial, bitter, flavor, etc., etc., in its preparation, ofttimes produces
a new and entirely delightful beverage. Some of the most famous cock
tails have been brought to light in this manner.
   The judicious use of egg, white, yolk or both, and of cream, in the
compounding of these delicious beverages, again has opened the field to
a still wider choice for the connoisseur. Their use, however, is advised
only with caution, as many otherwise fine beverages may prove dis
appointing with these added.
   As a general rule most gentlemen, and more than a few of the fairer
sex, prefer their cocktails "dry" or plain. Such are Manhattan, Martini,
Gibson and many other famous drinks. However, there are many excep
tions to this rule, so that the popular host would do well to be prepared
to serve any one of a dozen or more of the best-liked varieties, plain and
fancy.
   When adding whole fruits, such as cherries, pickled onions, pimen
tos, etc., to cocktails, pierce them with a toothpick and place them
in the drink with the toothpick laying over the edge of the glass.
   Cocktails, to be served before a dinner at which wine is to be
a part, should be much diluted (about one-half water) or of the milder
sort, such as Dubonnet, Sherry, etc., etc., as the stronger varieties tend
to destroy the fine flavors of the better wines as well as the appetite.
   It has been the effort of the publisher to present all recipes, including
varieties, in order that the widest latitude of choice might be possible.
10                    BOOTHBY'S            WORLD          DRINKS



                                       ABBEY
             Gin                      jigger   Kina Lillet                  jigger
             Orange                   jigger   Bitters                     2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                       A. B. C.
             Cognac               jigger       It. Vermouth              Vt, jigger
            Fr. Vermouth          jigg„        Medoc                   % jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.



                                 absinthe
                                  j'gS"        Orgeat                      1 dash
                                   drops       Anisette                    1 dash

                         cmon peel over and serve with ice water chaser.

                              absinthe, No. 2
             Absinthe           3/. ;i„„„      ..
             Orange bitters       i dash       Bitter"'
                                               ""■'■"S
                                                                           ^ drops
Pour ingredients over s aved ice iHr                      ..         .                     ... .
coc tail glass. T ist lemon peel over and
                                      ana ser"^
                                          serve                it    ice     ater c aser.       ^
                        ABSINTHE AMERICAINE
                                               Sugar Syrup                 das es
                              Water
S a e mt ice until ell frosted and serve in c illed coc tail glass it ice
 ater c aser.                                                                  ^          it"


                              ABSINTHE EGG
                                ^ 'Se"         Egg                     of    ite
                                  ieS"         Sugar                Scant spoon
S a e it ice until ell frosted and serve in c illed coc tail glass it ice
 ater c aser.                                                                         '


                           ABSINTHE               RENCH
             Absint e           1 igger        Sugar                     ^ lump
Provide c illed coc tail glass alf filled it s aved ice. Place sugar on
top and drip drop by drop upon it. T ist lemon peel over top and serve
 it   cut stra s.
                                 COCKTAILS                                   11


                         ABSINTHE, ITALIANO
             Absinthe            1 pony      Maraschino       3 dashes
             Anisette           Yz pony      Water            % pony
Shake with ice until well frosted and serve in chilled cocktail glass, with ice
water chaser.

                         ABSINTHE, SPECIAL
             Absinthe           Yz jigger    Gin              '/s jigg"
             Anisette          .i/e jigger   Orange Bitters       1 dash
                            Bitters               2 drops
Shake well with ice until well frosted and serve in chilled cocktail
glass, with ice water chaser.

                                      ACACIAS
             Gin               Yi jigger     Benedictine         jigger
                            Kirschwasser         2 dashes

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                         ACE
             Gin               Yi jigger     Egg                 white
             Grenadine         '/a jigger    Lemon             5 drops
             Cream             t/e jigger    Nutmeg            to taste
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg over
and serve.

                                   ADDISON
             Gin                Yz jigger Vermouth ....Y j*gg®r
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange peel over
and serve.

                                   ADMIRAL
             Gin               3/4 jigger Lime                 Vi spoon
             Cherry cordial ....1 spoon Sugar                  Yi spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                       adonis
             Sherry             Y% jigger     It- Vermouth     Vi jigger
                            Orange Bitters         1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                      AFFINITY
             Fr. Vermouth             jigger It. Vermouth         jigger
                             Creme de Vollette '/s jigger

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                                                               1


 12                BOOTHBY'S               WORLD         DRINKS



                              AFFINITY, No. 2
             Whisky                jiggc          Vermouth         5^ jigger
             It. Vermouth          jigger     Bitters                2 drops
 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon
 peel over and serve.

                                    AGONIE
             Gin                I/3 jigger    Rum                  2 dashes
                             Sweet-Sour         Vs jigger
 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                AINSWORTH
             Gin               Yi jieger     Fr. Vermouth ...H jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange peel
over and serve.

                                    ALASKA
             Gin                54 jigger    Chartreuse (yellow)     jigger
 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                 ALBERTINE
             Kirschwasser          jigger    Cointreau               jigger
             Chartreuse         54 jigger    Maraschino             l dash
 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                  ALE FLIP
                                1 j'ge"      Egg                   of yolk
             Sugar Syrup        1 spoon      Nutmeg                  taste
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg over
and serve.


                                ALEXANDER
                               54 jigger     Cream
             Creme de Cocoa..^ jigger        Nutmeg
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg over
and serve.


                            ALEXANDER, No. 2
                                  jigger     Coffee Ice Cream..^ jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                COCKTAILS                                   13



                       ALEXANDER, No. 3
           Cognac             1/3 jigger    Creme de Cocoa..      jigger
                           Cream               54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg
over and serve.

                     ALEXANDER'S SISTER
           Gin                1/3 jigger    Cream              1/3 jigger
                           Creme de Menthe..!^ jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                   ALFONSO
           Grand Marnier      54 jigger     Gin            54 jigger
           Fr. Vermouth       54 jiggsr     It. Vermouth   4 dashes
                           Bitters              2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                               ALICE MINE
           Kummel              54 jigger    It. Vermouth       54 jigger
                           Whisky              2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                     ALLEN
           Gin                54 jigger Maraschino             54 jigger
                           Lemon                1 spoon

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                   ALLIES
           Gin                54 jigger Fr. Vermouth       54 jigger
                           Kummel              2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                               ALLIGATOR
           Gin                54 jigger Orgeat                 54 jigger
                           Eau de Melisse       3 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                     ALMA
           Gin                54 jigger Creme de Cocoa...54 jigger
           Rum                54 jigger Grand Marnier    2 dashes
                           Cream                1 spoon

Shake well with ice, strain into cocktail glass and serve.
14                    BOOTHBY'S           WORLD     DRINKS



                                 AMAROSA
             Gin              Yi jigger   Amaros              Y jigger
                           Cherry Cordial....  jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                            AMBER DREAM
             Gin                 jigger    It. Vermouth          jigger
             Chartreuse        1 spoon     Orange Bitters       1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                          AMERICAN BEAUTY
             Cognac           Yn jigger    Fr. Vermouth       Y\ jigger
             Grenadine        54 jigger    Orange             Va jigger
             Crcme de Menthe..2 dashes     Port Wine           1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, float on Port
Wine and serve.

                                   AMOUR
             Sherry           t/^ jigger Fr. Vermouth         Yi jigger
                           Orange Bitters ...2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange peel
over and serve.


                                 ANGELES
                              Yi jigger    Lime               1 spoon
             Absinthe           l dash     Egg                Yt white
             Grenadine        2 dashes     Nutmeg              to taste
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg over
and serve.


                              ANGEL FACE
                              Yz jigger    Apricot Brandy    Yi jigger
                           Calvados           Yi jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                 ANGELIC
                              Yi jigger    Creme de Cocoa ..[/g jigger
             Grenadine       i/g jigger    Cream             i/g jigger
                           Nutmeg              to taste
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg over
and serve.
                                COCKTAILS                                15



                                     ANGLER
             Gin"             ^ jigger     Cointreau        2 dashes
             Orange Bitters ...2 dashes    Bitters           2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                              ANGLER, No. 2
             Gin               Yi jigger   Hercules            jigger
             Orange Bitters....2 dashes    Bitters            2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                 ANISETTE
             Whisky            54 jigger   Anisette         54 j'gger
                           It. Vermouth       54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled and frosted cocktcdl glass, twist
orange peel over and serve.


                            ANISETTE, No. 2
             Gin               54 jigger   Cream            54 Jigger
             Anisette          J4 jigger   Egg               54 white
                            Nutmeg             to taste

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg over
and serve.


                            ANISETTE, No. 3
             Absinthe          54 jigger   Benedictine        1 spoon
                           Bitters              2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into frosted cocktail glass, drip water through
ice to fill and serve.


                                      ANTE
             Calvados          54 jiggsr   Cointreau ........54 jiggsr
             Hercules          54 jigger   Bitters             2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                     apache
             Gin               54 jigger   Fr. Vermouth ....54 jigger
             Onion Juice       2 dashes    Curacoa           2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add pickled onion
and serve.
 16                 BOOTHBY'S            WORLD           DRINKS



                                 APPARENT
              Gin                   jigger    Dubonnet         Vi jigger
                            Absinthe                 1 dash

 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                APPETIZER
              Gin                   jig&cr    Dubonnet            jigger
                           Orange                Vz jigger
 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add twisted orange
 peel and serve.

                                       APPLE
             Calvados             jigger      Apple Cider         jigger
             Gin              I/q jigger      Brandy           Ye jiK&®r
 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                           APPLE BLOSSOM
             Applejack       ^ jigger        Grenadine         2 dashes
             It. Vermouth ,..,y jigger       Pineapple Syrup...2 dashes
 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                            APPLE BRANDY
             Applejack         1 jigger      Orange Bitters ...2 dashes
 Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.


                               APPLEJACK
             Applejack       54 jigger       Grenadine         1 spoon
                           Lemon                Vi spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                          APPLEJACK, No. 2
             Applejack      54 jigger It. Vermouth ....y jigger
                          Bitters                   2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.


                          APPLEJACK, No. 3
             Applejack       y jigger        Absinthe             dash
             Grenadine         1 spoon       Lime               spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                  COCKTAILS                                 17



                            APPLEJACK, No. 4
             Applejack            1 jigger    Bitters           3 dashes
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.


                                     APRICOT
             Gin                5^ jissc      Grenadine          1 spoon
             Apricot Brandy .        jigg"    Bitters            2 drops
                            Lemon                   H spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                               APRICOT, No. 2
             Gin ...;           ^ jigger      Apricot Cordial     jigger
                              Lime                  S drops

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                               APRICOT, No. 3
             Apricot Brandy....94 jigg®r      Lemon              1 spoon
             Orange               1 spoon     Gin               2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                  ARGENTINA
             Gin                 34 jigger    Fr. Vermouth      34 jigg®r
             Cointreau            1 spoon     Benedictine         1 spoon
             Orange Bitters        1 dash     Bitters             2 drops
                              Orange                1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                     ARMOUR
             It. Vermouth            jigger   Sherry            Vi jigger
                              Orange Bitters t ...2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange peel
over and serve.


                                       ARMY
             Gin                Yi jigger     Lemon peel          1 slice
             It. Vermouth       5^ jigger     Orange peel         1 slice
Shake all well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add pickled onion
and serve.
 18                 BOOTHBY'S              WORLD        DRINKS



                               ARROWHEAD
             Whisky            ^ jigger        It. Vermouth      1 spoon
             Fr. Vermouth       1 spoon        Lemon             1 spoon
                            Egg                 5^ of white
 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                 ARTILLERY
             Gin               2/^ jigger      It. Vermouth     yi jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.


                                     ARTIST'S
             Whisky                  jigger    Sherry           Vs jigger
             Groseille               jigger    Lemon           '/a jigger
 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                     ASTORIA
                               Yi jigger      Fr. Vermouth     Y} jigger
                            Orange Bitters         1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add green olive
or pickled onion and serve.

                               ATLANTIQUE
                               54 jigger      Fr. Vermouth     54 jigger
             Calvados          14 jigger      Cherry Cordial....2 dashes
                            Pernod                 2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.


                                 ATTA BOY
                               54 jigger      Fr. Vermouth     54 jigger
                            Grenadine             2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.


                                 AVIATION
             Dubonnet         54 jigger       Sherry          54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange peel over
and serve.
                               COCKTAILS                                   19



                           AVIATION, No. 2
            Whisky                jigger   Grape Juice       54 jigger
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                           AVIATION, No. 3
            Gin                   jigger   Lemon             H jigger
                          Maraschino          2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                  AVIATOR
            Rum              ^ jigger Grenadine              2 dashes
            Applejack        y jigger Lime                    S drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                  BABBIE'S
            Apricot Brandy....3^ jigger    Gin                2 dashes
                          Cream                    jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                           BABY FINGERS
            Sloe Gin        Ys jigger Gin                       jigger
                           Calisaya           2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.

                                 BACARDI
            Bacardi           54 jigger Lime                —-1 spoon
                           Sugar Syrup           1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                           BACARDI, No. 2
            Bacardi          54 jigger     It. Vermouth        54 jigger
                           Pineapple             1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                            BACARDI, No. 3
            Bacardi          54 jigger     Lemon              1 spoon
            Raspberry Syrup ..1 spoon      Orange Bitters      1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.




                                                                                i
20                  BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS



                             BACARDI, No. 4
             Bacardi          ^ jigger'     Lemon              j'gger
             Grenadine         1 spoon      Orange             jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                          BACARDI BLOSSOM
             Bacardi          54            Sweet-Sour      2 spoons
             Orange                jigger   Nutmeg           to taste
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg over
and serve.


                             BACARDI, DRY
             Bacardi               jigger   Fr. Vermouth    '/
                                                             i jigger
Stir weU with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                         BACARDI, DUBONNET
             Bacardi          y^ jigger     Grenadine        1 spoon
             Dubonnet         54 jigger     Lime             1 spoon
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                         BACARDI, GRENADINE
             Bacardi               jigger   Grenadine        1 spoon
                           Lime                  1 spoon
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                           BACARDI PEACH
             Bacardi          jigger Peach Brandy ....^ jigger
             Mint            1 sprig Sweet-Sour       2 spoons
Shake well with ice, strain into frosted cocktail glass, add frosted mint
leaf and serve.

                          BACARDI, SILVER
             Bacardi         y^ jigger      Gin                jigger
             Pineapple       54 Ji&gcr      Lemon            i spoon
                           Egg              54      white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino
cherry and serve.

                          BACARDI, SWEET
             Bacardi          y, jigger     It. Vermouth    5^ jigger
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                 COCKTAILS                                  21



                               BALD HEAD
             Gin              ^ jigger       It. Vermouth .... VS jigger
             Fr. Vermouth       jigger       Absinthe            1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add stuffed olive,
twist lemon peel over and serve.


                                        BALM
             Sherry            yi jigger     Cointreau          1 spoon
             Orange             1 spoon      Orange Bitters      2 drops
                            Pimento                1   dash

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add ripe olive
and serve.


                                    BAMBOO
             Sherry           Vi jigger      Orange Bitters ...2 dashes
             Fr. Vermouth ....yi jigger      Bitters            2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add green olive or
pimola, twist lemon peel over and serve.


                                  BARBARA
             Gin               54 jigger     Bitters            2 drops
             Sherry            54 jigger     Lemon             5 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                             BARBARA, No. 2
             Vodka                  jigger   Creme de Cocoa    yi, jigger
                          , Cream               Va jigg"
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                          BARBARA, EASTERN
             Whisky            ^ jigger      Apricot Brandy ..2 dashes
             Grapefruit        5^ jigger     Sugar Syrup       1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                              BARBARESQUE
             Rum               yi jigger     Lemon             y jigger
                            Cointreau           2 spoons
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
22                  BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS



                            BARBARY COAST
            Whisky           % jigger       Gin                 jigger
            Creme de Cocoa... 54 jigger     Cream               jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                    BARON
            Gin                 Vi jigger   Fr. Vermouth     y jigger
            It. Vermouth        2 dashes    Curacoa           1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                     BARRY
            Gin                54 jigger    Orange Bitters ...2 dashes
            iit- Vermouth         jigger    Creme de Menthe..lO drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino cherry,
twist lemon peel over and serve.

                               BARRY, No. 2
            Gin                54 jigger    Fr. Vermouth ....54 jigger
                            Creme de Menthe ..1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                   BARTON
                               54 jigger    Whisky           54 jigger
                            Applejack         54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                            BEAU BRUMMEL
                               54 jigger    Prunella         2 dashes
                               V2 jigger    Sugar Syrup        1 dash
Stir well with ice in bar glass, add half-slice of lemon and        serve.



                               BEAUX ARTS
                               54 jigger Fr. Vermouth ....l/s jigger
            It. Vermouth       i/g jigger Anisette           1 gash
            Pineapple Syrup....1 spoon      Orange             1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                     BECK
                               54 jigger    It. Vermouth ....54 jigger
                  Vermouth ....54 jigger    Anisette          3 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                               COCKTAILS                                    23



                              BEE'S KNEES
            Gin               K jigger      Orange              1 spoon
            Lemon              1 spoon      Honey               1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                   BEENBEE
            Cognac            Yt jigger     Benedictine           jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.


                                   BEL-AIRE
            It. Vermouth      Y jigger      Gin             :   Y jigger
                           Curacoa                2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.


                            BELLE AURORE
            Gin              Yi jigger      Cognac              M jigger
            Creme de Cocoa... jigger        Anisette            Ye jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                   BELMONT
            Gin                    jigger   Grenadine           Y jigger
                           Cream                  1 spoon

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                     BELOTE
            Anisette        ...J^ jigger    Calvados            Ye jigger
            Grenadine          Ye jigger    Orange              Y jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                   BENNETT
            Gin               Yi jigger     Sweet-Sour          Ye jigger
                           Bitters                 2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                   bentley
            Calvados          Y> jigger     Dubonnet            Yi jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
 24                   BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS



                                      BENTOTE
                Cognac           y-x jigger    Curacoa         Yx jigger
                              Orange               2 spoons
 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                     BERMUDA
                Rum             2/^ jig&cr     Bitters           2 drops
                            Sweet-Sour             Vz jigger
 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                 BERMUDIAN
             Gin                 Vi jigger     Grenadine       14 jigger
             Apricot Brandy         Jig&cr     Sweet-Sour      2 spoons
 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                        BERRY
             Gin                y jigger       Fr. Vermouth    '/g jigger
             It. Vermouth       /g jigger      Mandarinette     J/g jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.

                                BERRY WALL
             Gin                      jigger   It. Vermouth    54 jigger
                            Curacoa                3 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.

                         BETWEEN THE SHEETS
             Gin                     jigger    Cointreau       Yx jigger
                            Bacardi               Yz jigg"
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve. (Note: For a variation, substitute cognac for gin in
this recipe.)

                                       BIANCO
             Whisky                  jigger    Fr. Vermouth    Yz jigg®'
                            Bitters                2 drops
Stir well with ice in bar glass, twist lemon peel over and serve.

                                  BIARRITZ
             Calvados           Yz jigger Rum                  Yz jigger
                            Izarra             ;..54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                               COCKTAILS                                       25



                                    BICH'S
            Gin              '/} jigger   Kina Lillet         jigger
                          Bitters              2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange
peel over and serve.


                                    BIDOU
            Gin              % jigger     Fr. Vermouth        jigger
                          Peach Brandy        54 j'ES'r
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino
cherry and serve.

                                    BIFFY
             Gin              ^2 jigger   Caloric          54 jigger
                          Lemon            ■ ••54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                  BIG BOY
             Cognac           54 jiS6®r Cointreau          54 j^5S®r
                          Sweet-Sour          54 j'BS't
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                     BIJOU
             Gin              54 jiSSer   Grand Marnier ...54 j^BS®r
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                               BIJOU, No. 2
             Gin              54 jigger Chartreuse         54 jiBg=r   ' til
           It. Vermouth ...,54 jigger Orange Bitters       1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                    BILTONG
             Caperitif        54 jigger   Gin              54 j'gB'r
             Dubonnet         54 jigger   Orange Bitters     1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                    birdie
             Bacardi          ^ jigg^^    Grenadine         1 spoon
             Curacoa           1 spoon    Pineapple         1 spoon
                           Orange             1 spoon
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
26                 BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS



                                          BIRIBI
             Gin                       jigger   Dubonnet          Yi jigger
                             Grand Marnier          1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange
peel over and serve.


                                        BISHOP
             Whisky             ^ jigger        Orange              jigger
             It. Vermouth              jigger   Chartreuse         1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                          BITER
                                 K jigger       Chartreuse       ^ jigger
             Lemon juice               jigger   Absinthe            1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                               BLACK & TAN
             It. Vermouth       y jigger Absinthe                 Y jigger
                             '-^ssis               Yn jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add segments
of lemon and serve.

                                BLACK JACK
                                 Vi jigger      Kirschwasser     ^ jigger
                             Creme de Cassis...^ jigger
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add French hazelnut,
twist orange peel over and serve.


                               BLACKTHORN
             Sloe Gm             r/^ jigger     it. Vermouth ....y, jigger
               • Vermouth        y^ jigger      Orange Bitters     i dash
                             Bitters                2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
ana serve.




                        BLACKTHORN, No. 2
                      •••/
             It. Vermouth              j'gg"
                                       jigger   Sweet-Sour        2 spoon
                                                                    drops
                             Orange Bitters        2 dashes
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve
                                  COCKTAILS                                    2?



                          BLACKTHORN, No. 3
            Whisky                  jigger     Fr. Vermouth      5^ jigger
            Absinthe              1 spoon      Bitters            3 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                          BLACKTHORN, No. 4
            Gin                  1/2 jigger    Dubonnet          54 jigger
                              Kirschwasser       54 jigger

Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                          BLACKTHORN, No. 5
             Sloe Gin              jigger      Gin                  jigger
             Fr. Vermouth        ^ jigger      Sweet-Sour        .M spoon
                              Bitters              2 drops

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.


                                    BLENTON
             Gin                 Vi jigger     Fr. Ve
                                                   Vermouth          jigger
                          ■   Bitters
                                    s              2 drops

Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                        BLISTER
             Gin                  y, jigger    Noyau               yz jigger
             Sweet-Sour            1 spoon     Egg              y% of white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                              BLOCK AND FALL
             Brandy               ^ jigger     Cointreau         .y^ jigger
             Applejack            i/e jigger   Absinthe           '/e jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                              BLOOD AND SAND
             Whisky               54 jigger     Cherry Brandy      y jigger
             It. Vermouth         54 jigger - Orange              ^ jigger
 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
28                 BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS



                              BLOODHOUND
            Gin              ^ jigger         Fr. Vermouth ....Yi jigger
            It. Vermouth ....Yz jigger        Bardinet           1 dash
                          Raspberries                  six
Shake well with icq, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve. (Note:
Fresh raspberries being unavailable, substitute 2 dashes raspberry syrup
in their stead. Also, 2 strawberries may be substituted for raspberries
herein.)


                                    BLOSSOM
            Gin                Y2 jiggerOrange                 Ya Jigger
            Orange Bitters          1 dash    Grenadine          1 dash
                             Egg               1^2 of white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                        BLUE
            Cognac                jigger      Peppermint         1 spoon
            Curacoa            2 spoons       Noyau             2 spoons
            Sugar Syrup         1 spoon       Orange             y^ slice
Shake all well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                   BLUE BIRD
            Gin                      jigger   Curacoa           2 spoons
                          Bitters                  2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                    BLUE BOY
            ^st^aedi          ^ jigger        It. Vermouth     Ya jigger
            Orange                 1 spoon    Bitters               jajh
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail, glass and serve.

                               BLUE DEVIL
            Gin                Yi jigger      Maraschino          jigger
                          Lemon                   Ya jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                               BLUE FLYER
            Gin                K
                               Yi jigger
                                  jigger      Cointreau
                                              Cointreau           jigger
                          Lemon
                             non          :
                                          ;       Ya jigger
                                                     jig
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                  COCKTAILS                                    29



                               BLUE MONDAY
                  Vodka             jigger     Cointreau             jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                 BLUE MOON
                  Gin               jigger     Anisette            1 spoon
                              Peppermint           1 spoon
.Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                       BLUES
                  Whisky         ^ jigger      Curacoa             1 spoon
                              Prune Syrup          2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                BLUE, SPECIAL
                  Cognac         H jigger      Pineapple Syrup..     jigger
                              Champagne              to fill
Shake brandy and pineapple syrup well with ice, strain into chilled
cocktail glass, add Champagne to fill and serve.

                               BOBBIE BURNS
                  Whisky         Va jigger     Curacoa              1 dash
                  Gin            Vi jigger     Orange Bitters       1 dash
 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                             BOBBIE BURNS, No. 2
                  Whisky          r/4 jigger   It. Vermouth          jigger
                              Benedictine          2 dashes

 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
 over and serve.

                                       bogey
                  Gin .. ^       54 jigger     Fr. Vermouth        5^ jigger
                  Whisky            1 dash     Absinthe             2 drops
                              Lemon                  i dash
 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                        bolo
                  Bacardi             rger
                                 54 jigger     Ora
                                               Orange               1 spoon
                              Sweet-Sour
                                      jr            1 spoon

 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.




...     ...   -
30                 BOOTHBY'S             WORLD         DRINKS



                                      BOMBAY
             East Indian Punch..1 jigger     Lemon              3 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                              BOMBAY, No. 2
             Cognac                jigger    Fr. Vermouth      54 jigger
             It. Vermouth       54 jigger    Curacoa           2 dashes
                            Absinthe                1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                              BOOMERANG
             Gin                 jigger Maraschino             2 dashes
             Fr. Vermouth ....54 jigger It. Vermouth           54 jigger
                            Bitters                2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino cherry,
twist lemon peel over and serve.

                            BOOMERANG, No. 2
             Whisky                jigger    Caloric           14 jigger
                Vermouth        54 jigger    Lemon               1 spoon
                            Bitters                2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                    BORDEVER
             Whisky                 jigger   Ginger Ale        14 jigger
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.


                            BOSOM CARESSER
                                14 jigger    Curacoa           y jigger
             Grenadine           1 spoon     Egg             y^ of White
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg
over and serve.


                              BOSTON CLUB
                               Yi jigger     It. Vermouth ....14 jigger
                             Lime                  5 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add pickled onion
and serve.
                                COCKTAILS                                  31



                              BOSTON FLIP
             Whisky           54 jigger     Sugar Syrup         1 spoon
             Madeira          % jigger      Egg              54 of yolk
                           Nutmeg              to taste

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg over
and serve.


                               BOSTONIAN
             Gin              54 jigger     Sweet-Sour          1 spoon
             It. Vermouth ....'/a jigger    Mint              few leaves
                                   Orange              Vi spoon
Crush mint with fruit juices and sugar syrup, add liquor, shake well with
ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass cind serve. -

                         BOTTLED COCKTAILS
             Whisky             1 quart     Curacoa            54 jigger
             Bitters            1 spoon     Sugar Syrup         1 jigger
Stir aU well in pitcher and bottle for use. When serving stir required
quantity well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.


                   BOTTLED COCKTAILS, No. 2
             Brandy              1 pint     Bardinet           4 jiggers
             Anisette          1 jigger     Bitters             1 spoon
                           Lemon               1 jig&®r

Stir all well in pitcher and bottle for use. When serving shake required
quantity well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                       BOTTLED COCKTAILS, No. 3
             Bacardi             1 pint     Pineapple Cordial ...1 pint
             Cointreau           I pint     Lemon                1 pint
Stir all well in pitcher and bottle for use. When serving shake required
quantity well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                   BOTTLED COCKTAILS, No. 4
             Gin                1 quart     It. Vermouth          1 pint
             Orange              1 pint     Lemon              2 jiggers
                           Grenadine          ^ jiggers
Stir all well in pitcher and bottle for use. When serving shake required
quantity well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
 32                   BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS



                               BOULEVARD
             Gin               Yi jigger   It. Vermouth . ■ ■ -Vi jigger
                            Orange            54 jigger

 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                             BOULEVARDIER
             Dubonnet          ^ jigger    Raphael                jigger
             Campari          '/e jigger   Cognac              Yq jigger
 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                BOULOURIS
             Cognac           1/5 jigger   Medoc              % jigger
             Milk             Ys jigger    Vanilla             1 drop
                           Egg              Vz of white
 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, drop vanilla
over top and serve.


                                     BRACER
             Abainthe         K jigger     It. Vermouth        Yi jigger
                           Bitters              2 drops

Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.


                             BRAIN DUSTER
             Cognac            Yi jigger   Absinthe            Yt jigger
                           Bitters             3 dashes

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add green cherry
and serve.


                              BRAINSTORM
             Whisky               jigger   Benedictine         2 dashes
                           Fr. Vermouth        2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                     BRANDY
             Brandy            1 jigger    Bitters              2 drops
             Orange Bitters ...2 dashes    Sugar Syrup           l dash
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve with ice water chaser.
                                COCKTAILS                                      33



                             BRANDY, No. 2
             Brandy            1 jigger   Sugar Syrup       2 dashes
                           Bitters             2 drops

 Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
 and serve with ice water chaser.


                             BRANDY, No. 3
             Brandy            1 jigger   Curacoa           2 dashes
                           Bitters             2 drops
 Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add green olive or
 pimola, twist lemon peel over and serve.


                             BRANDY, No. 4
             Brandy            1 jigger   Curacoa ..t     ..2 dashes
             Absinthe           1 dash    Bitters            2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add green cherry, twist
lemon peel over and serve.


                             BRANDY, No. 5
             Brandy           54 ji&ger   Fr. Vermouth        jigger
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino cherry,
twist lemon peel over and serve.


                             BRANDY, No. 6
             Brandy           5^ jigger   Bardenet         54 jiSScr
             Anisette           1 dash    Bitters            2 drops
                           Lemon              1 spoon

Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add section of thin slice
of orange and serve.


                           BRANDY, FANCY
             Brandy           54 jigger   Orange Bitters ...2 dashes
             Maraschino       3 dashes    Bitters           2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into frosted cocktail glass and serve.

                      BRANDY, OLD FASHIONED
            Brandy             1 jigger   Lemon Peel         1 slice
            Orange Bitters ...2 dashes    Sugar Syrup      J4 spoon
Stir in small bar glass with ice, decorate with half slice lemon, two quarter
slices orange, add Maraschino cherry and serve with spoon.
34                    BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS



                         BRANDY-VERMOUTH
             Cognac                 jigger    It. Vermouth        jigger
                            Bitters               2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.


                                      BRANT
             Cognac             Yz jigger  Creme de Menthe..^ jigger
                            Orange Bitters    3 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add segments
of orange and serve.


                                      BRAZIL
             Sherry            Yi jigger      Fr. Vermouth      Y, jigger
             Absinthe           2 dashes      Orange Bitters      1 dash
                            Sugar Syrup          2 dashes
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.


                                  BREAKFAST
             Gin                  Yi jiggrr    Grenadine        % jigger
                            Egg                 Yz of white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                               BRETT'S OWN
             Absinthe           Yi jigger     It. Vermouth      Yi jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                         BROADWAY SPECIAL
             Gin                Yz jigger     It. Vermouth      54 jigger
             Grenadine          2 dashes      Pineapple          1 spoon
             Egg             Yz of white      Nutmeg to taste
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg
over and serve.


                              BROKEN SPUR
             White Port        Yz jigger      Gi"                   spoon
             It. Vermouth        1 spoon      Anisette             1 dash
                             Egg                Yz of yolk
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                   COCKTAILS                                 35



                                       BRONX
               Gin                Yt jigger   It. Vermouth       54 jigger
               Fr. Vermouth          jigger   Orange              1 spoon
 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add pickled filbert
 and serve.

                                 BRONX, No. 2
              Gin              Yi jigger      It. Vermouth     Yi jigger
              Fr. Vermouth ....Y jigger       Orange Bitters ...2 dashes
                            Orange Juice           1 spoon
 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add pickled filbert
and serve.

                          BRONX, PINEAPPLE
              Gin                Y^ jigger    It. Vermouth      Yi jigger
                              Pineapple          Yi, jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                               BRONX, SILVER
See Bronx, No. 1, above and add egg, one-half of white. Grate nutmeg
over and serve.


                                BROOKLYN
              Gin              Yx jigger Egg                  Vi oI white
              It. Vermouth ....14 jigger Orange                  2 dashes
                              Nutmeg             to taste
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg over
and serve.

                              BROOKLYN, No. 2
           Whisky             jigger Fr. Vermouth    Y3 jigger
           Maraschino        1 dash Bitters           2 drops  ^
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                               BROWN DERBY
              Whisky                jigger    Honey              2 spoons
                              Grapefruit         2 spoons
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                   BRUNELLE
              Absinthe           ^ jigger     Sweet-Sour .      K jiSS®!^
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
36                 BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS



                                      BRUT
             Fr. Vermouth ....'A jigger     Orange Bitters ....2 dashes
             Picon               jigger     Bitters            3 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.


                                BRUT, No. 2
             Fr. Vermouth ...1.^ jigger     Amer Picon           jigger
                           Peychaud             1 dash
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add half green olive
and serve.


                                      BUD'S
             Cointreau        ^ jigger      Cream             'A jigger
                           Bitters                 2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                     BUMPER
             Rum               Yi jigger    Gin               'A jigger
                           Lemon                   1 dash

Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.



                               BUNNY HUG
             Gin              ■ Vi jigger   Whisky .          14 jigger
                            Absinthe
                              isinthe             Yi
                                                  Ys jigger
                                                     jigi
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                   BURROUGH'S OLD FASHION
             Whisky             1 jigger    Water                 jigger
             Sugar Syrup        1 spoon     Bitters                drops
Stir well with ice in old-fashioned cocktail glass, add Maraschino
cherry, bits of orange and serve.

                              BUSHRANGER
             Bacardi           5^ jigger
                             •-Yi jigger    Caperitif
                                            Caperitif .           jigger
                           Bitters
                             tters                  2 dro
                                                      drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                COCKTAILS                                    37



                               BUSTANOBY
             Creme de Menthe ^ jigger      Bitters                 1 dash
             Sugar Syrup      1 spoon      Orange                2 spoons
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                   BUSTER
             Rum              54 jigger    Absinthe              14 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add segments
pineapple and serve.

                           BUSTER BROWN
            Whisky             1 jigger    Orange Bitters ....2 dashes
                           Sweet-Sour ...... ....1 spoon

Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                   B. V. D.
             Bacardi              jigger   Gin                   54 jigger
                           Fr. Vermouth          54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain I'nto chilled cocktail glass, add green olive
or pickled onion and serve.

                                  BYCULLA
            Port Wine         54 jigger    Sherry                54 jigger
            Curacoa           ^ jigger     Ginger Brandy         54 Jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                    byrrh
             Whisky           54 jigger    Fr. Vermouth          54 jigger
                          Byrrh                  54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                           BYRRH, SPECIAL
            Byrrh             54 jigger    Gin                   54 jigger
                          Sweet-Sour              1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                 CABARET
            Gin               54 jigger Caperitif                54 jigger
            Absinthe              1 dash   Bitters           ,    2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino
cherry and serve.
38                   BOOTHBY'S WORLD DRINKS

                           CAFE DE PARIS
             Gin                jigger    Anisette            2 dashes
             Cream            1 spoon     Egg              54 of white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg
over and serve.

                               CALIENTE
             Gin               jigs®!"    Cream                1 spoon
             Sweet-Sour      2 spoons     Egg                 of white
                          Nutmeg              to taste
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg over
and serve.

                          CALIENTE, No. 2
             Gin             54 jigger    Lime               54 jigger
                          Bitters              2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                               CALVADOS
             Applejack       1 jigger     Curacoa            2 dashes
                          Sugar Syrup        2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add pimola, twist
lemon peel over and serve.

                          CALVADOS, No. 2
             Calvados         54 jigger   Cointreau         l/g jigger
             Orange           54 jigger   Orange Bitters ....2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                          CALVADOS, No. 3
             Calvados         54 jigger    Sweet-Sour         54 jigger
 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                 CALISAYA
             Whisky           54 jigger Calisaya              54 jigger
                           Lemon          slice of peel
Stir all well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                               CAMERON'S
             Whisky           54 jigger    Orgeat .           i/g jigger
                          Lemon
                             ion              '/e jigger
                                                  jif
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                 COCKTAILS                                 39



                              CAMPARINETE
             Gin               Yi jigger    It. Vermouth       jigger
                            Campari               jigger

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.


                                  CAMPDEN
             Gin                Yi jigger   Cointreau          jig&cr
                            Kina Lillet        ^ jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                 CANADIAN
             Whisky            ^ jigger     Curacoa         2 dashes
             Bitters            2 drops     Sugar Syrup      1 spoon
Stir well with ice in bar glass, twist lemon peel over and serve.


                            CANADIAN, No. 2
             Curacoa           ^ jigger     Rum             2 dashes
                            Sweet-Sour          2 spoons

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                CANALETTO
             Cointreau        ^ jigger      Kirschwasser    % jigger
                           Champagne              to fill
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, float on Cham
pagne to fill, twist lemon peel over and serve.


                              CANVASBACK
             Whisky               jigger    It. Vermouth    54 jigger
             Gin               5^ jigger    Lemon            1 spoon
             Curacoa            5 drops     Bitters          2 drops

Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.


                                      CAPE
             Gin               54 jigger    Caperitil       Yi jigger
                         ■ ■ Orange            54 jigger

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
40                BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS



                               CAPETOWN
            Whisky               jigger   Caperitif         Yt jigger
            Curacoa           2 dashes    Bitters            2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.


                                 CAPRICE
            Gin                  jigger   Benedictine       1 spoon
            Fr. Vermouth       1 spoon    Orange Bitters ...2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add ripe olive and
serve.




                                  CARMEL
            Cognac            Yn jigger   Gin              54 jigger
                           It. Vermouth          jigger

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.


                                 CARROLL
             Cognac           Yi jigger   It. Vermouth      Yi jigger
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add pickled hazel
nut and serve.


                                  CARUSO
            Gin               Yi jigger   Fr. Vermouth      Y jigger
                           Creme de Menthe ..Yi jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                  CASINO
            Gin               Yz jigger Plum Brandy ....i/e jigger
            Old Mull          Y jigger It. Vermouth     14 jigger
                           Cointreau            1 dash

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                              CASINO, No. 2
            Gin               54 jigger   Maraschino        2 dashes
            Orange Bitters ...2 dashes    Lemon             2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino
cherry and serve.
                                COCKTAILS                                   41



                                      CASSIS
             Whisky              jigger    Fr. Vennouth        jigger
                           Creme de Cassis..2 spoons

Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino cherry
and serve.


                               CASTLE DIP
             Applejack        3^ jigger    Creme de Menthe .5^ jigger
                           Absinthe            2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                              CATERPILLAR
             Whisky           ^ jigger     Grape Juice      Y jigger
                           Bitters              2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.


                                CAT'S EYE
             Gin              Yi jigger    Fr. Vermouth     'A jigger
             Cointreau          1 spoon    Lemon             1 spoon
                           Kirschwasser        2 dashes

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add stufEed olive
and serve.


                             CEON DE PAU
             Gin               jigger Fr, Vermouth           34 jigger
             Arraagnac        /s jigger    Izarra             i spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.


                          CE SOIR OU JAMAIS
             Gin              t/3 jigger   Fr. Vermouth      '/a jigger
             Cognac             1 spoon    Apry                 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail Klass and serve.

                      C'EST VERT-MAIS JUSTE
             Gin              54 jigger    Cognac            54 jigger
             Peppermint       54 jigger    Bitters                 rop
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.
42                 BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS



                                     C. F. H.
             Gin                  jigger     Calvados           1 spoon
             Caloric            1 spoon      Grenadine           1 spoon
                           Lemon                   1 spoon

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                             CHAMBOURNY
            Cognac           % jigger        Rum               l/s jigger
            Peach Cordial ....'/s jigger     Sweet-Sour          1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                              CHAMPAGNE
            Champagne              to fill   Bitters            5 drops
                           Sugar                   1 cube
Place sugar in chilled Champagne glass and saturate with bitters. Pour
chilled Champagne over and serve without stirring.


                          CHAMPAGNE, No. 2
            Champagne             to fill    Peychaud Bitters ....1 dash
            Bitters             5 drops      Sugar                1 cube
Place sugar in chilled Champagne glass and saturate with bitters. Add
Peychaud. Pour chilled Champagne over and serve without stirring.


                          CHAMPAGNE, No. 3
            Champagne         Vt jigger      Cherry Brandy ...2 dashes
            Gin               54 jigger      Orange            i spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                          CHAMPAGNE FLIP
            Champagne          1 jigger      Brandy                flash
            Sugar Syrup         1 apooa      Egg                    yoUj
Shake egg and syrup well with ice. Pour in Champagne and strain into
chilled cocktail glass. Dash brandy over and serve.

                          CHAMPS ELYSEES
            Cognac             ^ jigger      Chartreuse        l/g jigger
            Sweet-Sour         2 spoons      Bitters             2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                 COCKTAILS                                   43



                              CHANTICLEER
             Gin               Yi jigger     Raspberry Syrup ...1 spoon
             Lemon              1 spoon      Egg            Yt of white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                      CHARLES
             Cognac             Yi jigger    It. Vermouth      Yi jigger
                            Bitters              2 drops

Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.

                               CHARLESTON
             Gin               [/e jigger    Kirschwasser ....l/e Jigger
             Maraschino        '/e jigger    Curacoa               jigger
             Fr. Vermouth       Y^ jigger       Vermouth       J/g Jigger

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.


                               CHARLEY PIE
             Gin               Yi j'gS'r     It. Vermouth          jigger-
                            Campari              yi jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                            CHARME DE PARIS
             Gin                Yi jigger    It. Vermouth       Y3 jigger
             Anisette           i/s jigger   Rum               '/e jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.


                               CHARTREUSE
             Whisky            % jigger      Chartreuse        Yz jigger
                            Fr. Vermouth        Ye Jigger
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino cherry
and serve.

                                CHAUFFEUR
             Whisky               jigger     Gin               54 jigger
             Fr. Vermouth ... .54 jigger     Orange Bitters       1 dash
                            Bitters               2 drops

Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add French hazelnut
and serve.
 44                     BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS



                                     CHEERIO
              Whisky                 jigger   Curacoa          K jigger
                             Lemon                 1 dash

 Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                      CHERIE
              Fr. Vermouth           jigger   It. Vermouth      Yz jigger
              Maraschino             1 dash   Bitters           2 drops
 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add ripe olive
 and serve.


                                      CHERRY
              Cherry Brandy ...Y jigger    Fr. Vermouth           jigger
                            Orange Bitters      1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino
cherry and serve.


                             CHERRY BLOSSOM
              Gin              ^ jigger       Orange          2 dashes
              Raspberry        2 dashes       Egg            % of white
                             Nutmeg               to taste
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg over
and serve.


                        CHERRY BLOSSOM, No. 2
              Cognac               jigger     Cherry Brandy ....y jigger
              Curacoa            1 spoon      Grenadine         1 spoon
                             Lemon                 1 spoon

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                CHEVALIER
              Cognac            y jigger      Cointreau           i dash
              Bitters            3 drops      Sweet-Sour       y jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                  CHICAGO
              Brandy              jigger      Curacoa          2 dashes
              Champagne        3 dashes       Bitters           2 drops
Stir all, except Champagne, well with ice and strain into frosted cocktail
glass. Add piece of twisted lemon peel, dash Champagne over and serve.
F

                                      COCKTAILS                                 45



                                     CHINATOWN
                  Gin              % jigger     Fr. Vermouth       % jigger
                  It. Vermouth ....5^ jigger    Brandy              1 dash
    Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
    over and serve.


                                           CHINESE
                  Rum               V3 jigger   Curacoa            2 dashes
                  Grenadine         2 dashes    Maraschino         2 dashes
                                 Bitters               2 drops
    Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino cherry,
    twist lemon peel over and serve.

                                           CHINOIS
                  Fr. Vermouth      % jigger    Cognac             I/5 jigger
                                 Mandarinette         '/s jigger
    Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
    over and serve.

                                           CHINTZ
                  Whisky            ^ jigger    Lime               2 dashes
                  Rum                 jigger    Bitters             2 drops
                  Falemian          2 dashes    Sugar Syrup          1 dash
    Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                     CHOCOLATE
                  Port              y jigger    Chartreuse
                  Sweet Chocolate ..I spoon         (yellow)       H jigger
                  Egg              % of yolk    Nutmeg              to taste
    Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg over
    and serve.

                                           CHOKER
                  Whisky            Ys jigger       Absinthe        ^jigger
                                 Absinthe Bitters        1 dash
    Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                   CHORUS GIRL
                 _ Gin                 jigger   Fr. Vermouth .. .^ jigger
                  It. Vermouth ....^ jigger     Orange             2 spoons

    Stir well with ice, strain into old fashion whisky glass, with lump of ice,
    add part slice orange and serve with spoon.
46                    BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS




                            CHRYSANTHEMUM
             Fr. Vermouth .....54 jigger      Benedictine         54 j'gget
                            Absinthe             3 dashes

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange
peel over and serve.

                                  CHUTNEY
             Cognac            54 jigger      Chutney juice       J4 jigger
                            Lemon                     1 dash

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                       CIDER
             Cider                  to fill   Sugar                 1 cube
             Bitters             5 drops      Lemon            slice of peel
Saturate sugar with bitters and place in Champagne glass with twisted
lemon peel. Pour chilled cider over and serve without stirring.


                                    CIGALON
             Rum               l/i jigger     It. Vermouth           jigger
             Maraschino           1 dash      Orange Bitters         1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.


                                    CINZANO
             It. Vermouth       54 jigger     Orange Bitters         1 dash
                            Bitters               2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange peel
over and serve.


                              CLARET FLIP
             Claret            1 jigger Egg                            yojlt
             Sugar Syrup        1 spoon       Nutmeg                  jagte
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg over
and serve.


                                  CLARIDGE
             Gin              54 jigger       Fr. Vermouth         54 jigger
             Apricot Brandy ..[/g jigger      Cointreau               jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                COCKTAILS                                  47



                                CLASSIQUE
             Cognac            5^ jigger    Maraschino        '/g jigger
             Curacoa           J/e jigger   Lemon               1 spoon

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled and frosted cocktail glass, twist
lemon peel over and serve.


                                     CLIMAX
             Applejack       ^ jigger       Grenadine          1 spoon
             Fr. Vermouth ....VS jigger     Egg               of white
             Lime              1 spoon      Nutmeg             to taste

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg over'
and serve.


                             CLOVER CLUB
             Gin              Yn jigger     Lemon             4 drops
             Grenadine          1 spoon     Egg            Y of white
                            Nutmeg              to taste

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg over
and serve.


                         CLOVER CLUB, No. 2
             Gin               Y jigger     Cream             1 spoon
             Fr. Vermouth       1 spoon     Lemon             1 spoon
             Grenadine          1 spoon     Egg            Y of white
                            Nutmeg              to taste

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg over
and serve.



                         CLOVER CLUB, No. 3
             Gin                  jigger    Cream             '/a jigger
             Grenadine        i/g jigger    Nutmeg              to taste

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg over
and serve.


                         CLOVER CLUB, No. 4
             Gin             Y jigger       Fr. Vermouth         jigger
             Lemon             X spoon      Raspberry Syrup ...1 spoon
             Egg            % of white      Nutmeg             to taste

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg over
and serve.
48                   BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS



                             CLOVER LEAF
             Gin             % jigger     Fr. Vennouth ....54 jigger
             Lemon             1 spoon    Grenadine         1 spoon
             Egg           54 of white    Mint               1 sprig
Bruise mint and shake all well with ice. Strain into chilled cocktail glass,
add 1 mint leaf and serve.


                            CLOVER ROYAL
             Gin                 jigger   Fr. Vermouth         jigger
             Grenadine         1 spoon    Lemon              1 spoon
             Egg             y2 of yolk   Nutmeg             to taste
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg over
and serve.

                                     CLUB
             Brandy           54 jigger   Orange Bitters ....2 dashes
             Maraschino       2 dashes    Pineapple Syrup ..2 dashes
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add dash of Cham
pagne, twist lemon peel over and serve.


                               CLUB, No. 2
             Whisky              jigger   Grenadine         2 dashes
                           Bitters            2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino cherry,
twist lemon peel over and serve.

                                CLUB, No. 3
                              54 jigger   It. Vennouth      54 jigg"
                           Chartreuse             1 dash
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.

                                     COCOA
             P°rt                jigger   Chartreuse
                             54 of yolk    (yellow)         54 jigger
             Sugar Syrup       54 spoon   Cocoa              1 spoon
                           Nutmeg             to taste
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, gtrate nutmeg over
and serve.

                                 COCKNEY
                              54 jigger   Champagne         ^ jigger
                           Sweet-Sour        2 spoons
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                 COCKTAILS                                  49



                COCKTAIL PERE-COCKTAIL FILS
              Kirschwasser      Y3 jigger   Orange             '/s jigger
              Curacoa            1 spoon    Sugar Syrup          1 spoon
 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                             COCOANUT GROVE
              Gin                  jigger    Fr. Vermouth          jigger
                             It. Vermouth            jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add bits of
 pineapple and serve.

                                      COFFEE
             Brandy                jigger   Coffee             ^ jigger
                             Cointreau         5^ jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into frosted cocktail glass and serve.


                               COFFEE, No. 2
             Brandy                jigger   Egg               54 of both
             Port               5^ jigger   Sugar Syrup         54 spoon
                             Nutmeg             to taste
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg over
and serve.


                              COFFEE, No. 3
             Port              1 jigger     Brandy                t dash
             Creme de Cocoa ..54 jigger     Egg               54 of yolk
                             Nutmeg             to taste
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg over
and serve.

                              COFFEE, No, 4
             Port              ^ jigger     Brandy             14 ji6S®r
             Sugar Syrup        1 spoon     Egg               14 of yolk
                             Nutmeg             to taste
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg over
and serve.

                                   COGNAC
             Cognac               jigger    Cointreau            1 dash
             Lemon                jigger    Orange Bitters       1 dash
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.
so                     BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS



                                   COINTREAU
               Gin               Yi jigger      Bacardi         Vz jigger
                              Cointreau            Yi jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                   COLD DECK
               Cognac            Yi jigger  It. Vermouth            Yn jigger
                              Creme de Menthe      jigger

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.



                                       COLONEL
               Whisky           ^ jigger        Grapefruit           1 spoon
               Apricot Brandy ..'/a jigger      Sugar Syrup         5^ spoon
Stir well in bar glass with lump of ice, twist lemon peel over and serve
■ it spoon.


                            COLONEL APPLETON
               Brandy                  igg"     Creme de Ment e .      igger
                              Mint                    1 sprig
Place brandy in t oroug ly c illed coc tail glass. S a e creme de
ment e ell it ice and float over. loat on sprig of mint and place
Marasc ino c erry on top t ereof. Serve.

                                       COLONIAL
               Gin                Yi igger      Grapefruit          Yi igger
                               Marasc ino             das es
S a e    ell it ice strain into c illed coc tail glass and serve.


                                       COLORADO
               C erry Brandy       Yi igger      Cream                  igger
                               Kirsc   asser         Yi igger
S a e    ell     it ice strain into c illed coc tail glass and serve.

                                  COMMODORE
               W is y                   igger    S eet Sour            spoons
                               Orange Bitters ... .    das es
S a e    ell      it    ice strain into c illed coc tail glass and serve.
                                  COCKTAILS                                 51



                               CONSOLATION
             Gin                ^ jigger     Creme de Menthe..2 dashes
             Bitters             2 drops     Lemon            1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                              COOPERSTOWN
            Gin                 Yi jigger    It. Vermouth       yi jigger
            Orange Bitters         1 dash    Mint                1 sprig
Bruise mint and stir all well with ice. Strain into chilled cocktail glass,
add mint leaf, twist lemon peel over and serve.

                                      CORAL
            Bacardi              jigger      Grapefruit          1 spoon
            Apricot Cordial ...1 spoon       Lemon             few drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                CORAL, No. 2
            Gin                 '/i jigger   It. Vermouth      !4 jigger
                             Five Fruits Syrup...1 spoon

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                   CORDOVA
            Gin                 Yi jigger    It. Vermouth          jigger
            Ahsinthe             2 dashes    Cream               1 spoon

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                   CORNELL
            Gin                 Yi jigger    Benedictine        Yi jigger
                          Lemon                  Yi jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                 CORNWELL
            Gin                 54 jigger    Seville Bitters    Yi jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add half of ripe
olive, twist lemon peel over and serve.

                               CORONATION
            Brandy             ^ jigger      Curacoa            2 dashes
            Peach Bitters ....2 dashes       Mint                1 sprig

Bruise mint and shake all well with ice. Strain into chilled cocktail glass,
add mint leaf, twist lemon peel over and serve.
52                    BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS



                           CORONATION, No. 2
             Sherry            % jigger     Fr. Vermouth        jigger
             Orange Bitters ....2 dashes    Maraschino          1 dash

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                           CORPSE REVIVER
             Cognac                jigger   Calvados          54 jigger
                           .It. Vermouth       Yn jigger
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.


                         CORPSE REVIVER, No. 2
             Gin                   jigger   Cointreau            jigger
             Kina Lillet        Y^ jigger   Lemon             J4 jigger
                            Absinthe             1 dash

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.

                                       COTA
             Gin                Yi jigger   Cointreau         Yn jigger
                            Hercules           Yi jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                           COTE D'AMERAUD
             Gin             Y jigger Armagnac                y jigger
             Izarra             Y jigger    Lemon               i dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                  COUNTRY
             Applejack        Y jigger      Port                jigger
             ®gg             Y of whole     Sweet-Sour        2 spoons
                            Nutmeg              to taste
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg over
and serve.


                             COUNTRY, No. 2
             Whisky            2^ jigger    Orange Bitters ....2 dashes
                            Bitters              2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.
                                COCKTAILS                                   53



                            COUNTRY CLUB
             Whisky             1 Jigger      Orange Bitters ...2 dashes
                           Bitters                  2 drops

Stir well in bar glass with lump of ice, twist lemon peel over and serve
with spoon.

                         COUNTRY GENTLEMAN
             Applejack               jigger   Curacoa          Vn jigger
                           Sweet-Sour           2 spoons
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                          COUP DE CAFARD
             Gin               Y2 jigger      It. Vermouth       1 spoon
             Cognac             1 spoon       Port Wine          1 spoon
             Curacoa          2 dashes        Bitters           2 drops
                           Lemon                 thin slice

Shake all well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                            COUP DE ROULIS
             Gin               Yi jigger      Fr. Vermouth     ^ jigger
             Cherry Brandy ..../a jigger      Cointreau        j/a jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                COURONNE
            Whisky           '/a jigger       Cointreau        Ys jigger
            Gin              I/a jigger       Bitters           2 drops
            Fr. Vermouth ....% jigger         Lemon             2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                     COWBOY
            Whisky            % jigger        Cream               jigger
                           Nutmeg                 to taste

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg
over and serve.


                                     CRAWL
            Cognac            ^ jigger        Rum              yi jigger
            Curacoa            2 dashes       Noyau            2 dashes
                           Bitters                  2 drops

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.
V 'v


       54                BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS



                                              CREOLE
                   Whisky             ^ jigger       Peychaud          3 drops
                   Curacoa             2 drops       Bitters           2 drops
                                    Absinthe         to wet glass
       Wet chilled cocktail glass with absinthe (few drops) and throw out. Stir
       other ingredients well with lump of ice in bar glass, strain into prepared
       glass and serve with ice water chaser.


                                      CREOLE, No. 2
                   Whisky              ^ jigger      It. Vermouth     ^ jigger
                   Benedictine          2 dashes     Amber Picon       2 dashes
       Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
       over and serve.


                                       CREPUSCULE
                   Cognac               1/3 jigger   Fr. Vermouth      ^ jigger
                   Orange Bitters           1 dash   Raspberry syrup ...1 spoon
                                    Bitters                1 drop
       Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
       (Note: Four raspberries, in season, with one spoon sugar syrup may
       be substituted for raspberry syrup in this recipe.)

                                         CROISETTE
                   Cherry Brandy . ■ ■ -Vs jigger    Fr. Vermouth      1/3 jigger
                   It. Vermouth        ^ jigger      Kirschwasser       1 spoon
       Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino
       cherry and serve.

                                           CROW
                   Whisky               y3 jigger Lemon                   jigger
                                    Grenadine             I spoon
       Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                              CRUTCH
                   Gin                 16 jigger     Sherry            y jigger
                                    Lemon                K jigger
       Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                              CUBAINE
                   Bacardi              24 jigger     Orange            1 spoon
                                    Sweet-Sour           2 spoona
       Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.




                                                                                    .''Ja
                               COCKTAILS                                    55



                                     CUBAN
             Bacardi                jigger   Lirae              5^ jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                              CUBAN, No. 2
             Bacardi          ^ jigger       Grenadine           1 spoon
             Maraschino        1 spoon       Orange Bitters       1 dash
                           Lemon                 2 drops

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.

                              CUBAN, No. 3
             Bacardi            jigger       It. Vermouth .'....54 jigger
             Bitters           2 drops       Orange             2 spoons
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                             CUBAN, No. 4
             Brandy           yi jigger      Apricot Brandy .      jigger
                           Lemon                 1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add bits of
pineapple and serve.

                                    CUBANO
             Gin              ^ jigger       Fr. Vermouth          jigger
             Kummel           2 dashes       Pineapple          2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                 CULROS
             Bacardi          ^ jigger Apricot Brandy .            jigger
             Kina Lillet      54 jigger      Lemon               1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                       CUR                                  _
             Cointreau       % jigger        Cognac             % jigger
                           Orange                1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                CURACOA
             Whisky          5^ jigger       Curacoa            54 jigger
                           Lemon                     1 dash

Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.




                                                                                 fta   ■   .
56                 BOOTHBY'S WORLD DRINKS

                           CURACOA, No. 2
             Curacoa          Yz jigger    Cognac          l/g jigger
             Gin              l/e jigger   Orange           Y jigger
                          Orange Bitters ..to wet glass
Wet chilled cocktail glass with orange bitters and toss out. Shake
other ingredients with ice, strain into prepared glass and serve.


                       DAMN-THE-WEATHER
             Gin              Y jigger     It. Vermouth    i/g jigger
             Orange          '/g jigger    Curacoa         2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                  DAMSON
             Gin             {4 jigger     Damson          % jigger
                           Lemon              Yt jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange peel ovei
and serve.


                                 DAIQUIRI
             Bacardi             jigger    Grenadine         I spoon
                           Lemon               1 spoon

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                            DAIQUIRI, No. 2
             Bacardi          Yz jigger    Lime            Yz jigger
                           Sugar Syrup        2 spoons
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                   DANDY
             Whisky            Yz jigger   Dubonnet         Yz jigger
             Cointreau          3 dashes   Bitters              drops
             Lemon peel          1 piece   Orange peel        1 piece
Shake all well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                 DARB
             Gin              Ya4 jigger
                                  jigger    Fr. Vermouth     14 jigger
             Apricot Brandy ..>41 jigger
                                  jigger    Lemon             i spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                 COCKTAILS                                 57


                                DAREDEVIL
            Port              'A jigger     Egg              % of both
                           Bitters                 1 dash

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                     DAVIS
            Fr. Vermouth        Yt jigger   Rum               54 jigger
                           Grenadine           2   dashes

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                              DAVIS, No. 2
            Cognac              Vi jigger   Fr. Vermouth         jigger
            Grenadine           4 dashes    Bitters            2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                DEAUVILLE
            Calvados            V3 jigger   Chartreuse        V3 jigger
            Raspberry Syrup..     jigger    Lemon             2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                  DECEIVER
            Gin                 Yz jigger   Chartreuse         Yz jigger
                           Creme de Cocoa           1 dash

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, float on two
drops bitters, twist lemon peel over and serve.


                           DECH GERARD'S
            Gin                 Yi jigger   Vermouth          Y jig£®r
                           Pineapple syrup ....1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, garnish with
bits of pineapple and serve.


                                  DEEP SEA
            Gin              Yz jigger      Orange Bitters      1 dash
            Fr. Vermouth ....Yz jigger      Absinthe           3 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over, add olive or pimola and serve.
58                 BOOTHBY'S          WORLD        DRINKS



                           DEEP SEA, No. 2
            Gin                 jigger    Fr. Vermouth       jigger
            Anisette           1 dash     Orange Bitters    1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add pimola, twist
lemon peel over and serve.

                              DEL MONTE
            Bacardi             jigger    Grenadine        1 spoon
                          Lemon                 1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                         DEL MONTE, No. 2
             Whisky             jigger    Grenadine          1 dash
             Lemon              1 dash    Orange Peel        1 piece
Shake all well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                     DELYS
            Gin              Yi jigger  Creme Yvette       Yi jigger
                          Creme de Menthe..^ jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                            DE MON CURE
             Cognac           Ya jigger   Calvados         Yn jigger
             Rum              54 jigger   Lemon            % jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                DEMPSEY
             Calvados        Yi jigger    Gin              Ya jigger
             Grenadine         1 spoon    Absinthe         2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                             DEPTH BOMB
             Brandy          14 jigger    Applejack        Yi jigger
             Grenadine         1 spoon    Lemon               spoons
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                           DEPTH CHARGE
             Gin            14 jigger Kina Lillet           14 jigger
                          Absinthe              2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange
peel over and serve.
                               COCKTAILS                                 59



                                     DERBY
           Brandy           54 jigger       Curacoa         2 dashes
           Pineapple Syrup ..2 dashes       Bitters         2 drops
                          Champagne            2 dashes
Stir all, except champagne, well with ice and strsdn into chilled cocktail
glass. Add Maraschino cherry, twist lemon peel over, dash Champagne
over and serve.

                             DERBY, No. 2
            Gin                    jigger   Peach Bitters   2 dashes
                           Mint                  1 sprig
Shake all well together, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add frosted
mint leaf and serve.


                              DE RIGUEUR
            Whisky            5^ jigger     Grapefruit      54 jigg®*"
                           Honey               W jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                           DERNIER ROUND
            Gin               5^ jigger     Fr. Vermouth    % jigger
            Cognac                1 spoon   Cointreau        1 spoon
                           Bitters               2 drops

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.

                                     DESTINY
            Absinthe           54 jigger    Gin              54 jigger
            It. Vermouth       54 jigger    Sugar Syrup       1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                             DEUX PRAISES
            Cognac             14 jigger    Port Wine        14 jigger
            Sugar Syrup           1 spoon   Strawberries          two
Shake all well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
(Note: When out of season, substitute two spoons strawberry syrup
for sugar syrup and strawberries in this recipe.)

                                      DEVIL
            Brandy            14 jigger     Creme de Menthe 54 jigger
                           Red Pepper            1 pinch
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, sprinkle red pepper
over top and serve.
60                BOOTHBY'S WORLD DRINKS

                              DEVIL, No. 2
            Port Wine         yi jigger   Fr. Vermouth     yi jigger
                           Lemon             2 dashes

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                DEVONIA
            Apple Cider       Yi jigger   Gin                 jigger
                           Orange Bitters     2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                    DIABLO
            Brandy            y^ jigger   Fr. Vermouth     y^ jigger
            Curacoa           3 dashes    Bitters           2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino cherry
or pimola, twist lemon peel over and serve.


                                   DIABOLA
            Dubonnet          Yi jigger   Gin                 jigger
                           Orgeat               2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                    DIANA
            G'n                  jigger   Fr. Vermouth     A jigger
            It. Vermouth       1 spoon    Pernod           2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange
peel over and serve.


             f                        DIKI
                              '4 jigger   Izarra              jigger
            Dubonnet          % jigger    Grand Marnier ....1 spoon
                           Armagnac              1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                   DIKI DIKI
            Calvados          5^ jigger   Caloric          y^ jigger
                           Grapefruit        54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                COCKTAILS                                  61



                                 DIPLOMAT
             Fr. Vermouth           jigger   It. Vermouth     1/3 jigger
                            Maraschino          2 dashes

Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino cherry,
twist lemon peel over and serve.

                                       DIXIE
             Whisky           % jigger       Curacoa            1 dash
             Creme de Menthe ..5 drops       Bitters           2 drops
                            Sweet-Sour          2 spoons

Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.

                                DIXIE, No. 2
             Whisky           % jigger       Curacoa          2 dashes
                            Creme de Menthe...5 drops

Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                DIXIE, No. 3
             Gin               54 jigger     Fr. Vermouth      54 jigger
                            Absinthe            54 jiggrr
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                               DIZZY IZZY
             Whisky            54 jigger Sherry               54 jigg< r
             Pineapple Syrup ..2 spoons Lemon                 2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                            DO BE CAREFUL
             Gin               54 jigger     Cointreau        54 jigger
             Grenadine          1 spoon      Lemon             1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                     DOCTOR
             Caloric           54 jigger     Orange ....^.....54 jigger
                            Lemon               54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                     dodge
             Gin               54 jigger     Cointreau        54 jigger
                            Grape                2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
62                 BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS



                            DOLLY O'DARE
             Gin               Yz jigger  Fr. Vermouth    Yz jigger
                           Apricot Brandy ..-Yi jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange
peel over and serve.


                               DOUGLASS
             Gin              Yz jigger    Fr. Vermouth   Yi jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.


                                    DREAM
             Gin              54 jigger    Grenadine      54 jigger
             Apricot Brandy ..54 jigger    Lemon           1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                              DREAM, No. 2
             Gin               Yi jigger   Sweet-Sour     2 spoons
             Egg            Yt of white    Cream          2 spoons
                           Nutmeg              to taste
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg over
and serve.



                             DREAM, No. 3
             Cognac            Yz jigger   Curacoa        54 jigger
                           Absinthe             1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                  DRONDA
             Gin              54 jigger    Calisaya
                                           Calisa         ^ jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                DU BARRY
             Gin               Yz jigger   Fr. Vermouth    54 jigger
             Absinthe          2 dashes    Bitters             drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add segments
of orange and serve.
                                 COCKTAILS                                 63



                                 DUBONNET
             Gin                  jigger     Maraschino       2 dashes
             Dubonnet             jigger     Fr. Vermouth,.to wet glass
Wet chilled cocktail glass with Fr. vermouth (few drops) and throw out.
Shake other ingredients well, strain into prepared glass, add pickled hazel
nut and serve.


                            DUBONNET, No. 2
             Gin               Vi jigger  Dubonnet            V% jigger
                            Fr. Vermouth ....^ jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add pickled hazelnut
and serve.


                            DUBONNET, No. 3
             Dubonnet          Yi jigger     Gin              54 jigger
                            Orange Bitters         1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add pickled hazelnut
and serve.


                            DUBONNET, No. 4
             Dubonnet          Yz jigger     Sherry           5^ jigger
                            Orange Bitters ...2 dashes
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve with ice water chaser.


                            DUBONNET, No. 5
             Dubonnet          Yz jigger     Sherry           H jigger
             Fr. Vermouth         jigger     Orange Bitters     1 dash
                            Bitters                2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange peel over
and serve.


                            DUBONNET, No. 6
             Dubonnet          Yi jigger     Gin              Y jiffger
                            Fr. Vermouth           1 dash

Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                            DUBONNET, DRY
             Gin               Yi jigger     Dubonnet         Yi jigger
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange peel over
and serve.
64                  BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS



                            DUBONNET FLIP
             Dubonnet           54 jigger    Sugar Syrup       1 spoon
             Egg                  of yolk    Nutmeg            to taste

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg over
and serve.


                                    DUCHESS
             Absinthe              jigger    Fr, Vermouth        jigger
                              It, Vermouth ....54 jigger
Shake extra well with ice, strain into chilled and frosted cocktail glass
and serve.



                                   DUNHILL
             Gin                 54 jigger   Fr. Vermouth      54 jigger
             Sherry              54 jigger   Absinthe            1 dash
                            Curacoa              2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add ripe olive
and serve.


                                 DUNLOP
             Rnni                54 jigger   Sherry            54 jigger
                            Bitters               1   dash
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and ser\

                                      DUPLEX
                                'A jigger    Fr. Vermouth      14 jigger
             It. Vermouth       54 jigjer    Orange Bitters ...2 dashes
                            Lemon                 1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                      DUPPY
                                 % jigger    Curacoa           14 jigger
             Orange Bitters       3 drops    Whole Cloves              6
Shake all well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                  DYNAMITE
             Applejack           54 jigger   Brandy             14 jigger
             Bacardi             54 jigger    Grenadine           i dash
Shake all well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                 COCKTAILS                                65



                                    EAGLE
            Gin                 5^ jigger   Yvette           '/g jigger
            Sweet-Sour           1 spoon    Egg            5^ of white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                EAST INDIA
            Brandy                 jigger   Curacoa          2 dashes
            Maraschino          2 dashes    Bitters           2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino
cherry, twist lemon peel over and serve. (Note: Another version o£
this recipe substitutes pineapple syrup for Maraschino.)


                                EAST INDIAN
            Sherry              ^ jigger    Fr. Vermouth     Yi jigger
                          Orange Bitters          1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                EAU DU NIL
            Gin                 y^ jigger   Whisky          5^ jigger
            Grenadine            1 spoon    Pernod             1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                            EDDY BROWN
            Gin                 Y3 jigger   Kina Lillet     Y jigger
                          Apricot Brandy....2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon
peel over and serve.


                                  ELEGANT
           Whisky               1 jigger    Maraschino'.       1 dash
                          Lemon                  1 dash

Stir well in bar glass with lump of ice, twist lemon peel over, serve with
spoon and ice water chaser.

                            ELISSA LANDI
            Creme de Menthe .     jigger    Cognac            1 spoon
Shake creme de menthe well with ice, strain into chilled and frosted
cocktail glass, add green cherry, float cognac over and serve.
66                 BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS



                             EL GAUCHO
            Cognac          % jigger      Fr. Vermouth     54 jigger
                         Bitters              2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon
peel over and serve.                     '


                            EL GAURANI
            Gin                 jigger    Fr. Vermouth        jigger
                         Aperital            14 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                    ELK
            Gin             54 jigger     Prunelle         54 jigger
                         Fr. Vermouth        2 dashes

Shake well with-ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                            ELK, SPECIAL
            Whisky          54 jigger     Port Wine         54 jigger
            Sweet-Sour       1 spoon      Egg             54 of white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add segments of
pineapple and serve.


                          EMBASSY CLUB
            Cognac          54 jigger     Cointreau        54 jigger
                             54 jigger    Lime             54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon
peel over and serve.


                               EMERALD
            ®''3"<iy        54 jigger     Creme de Menthe..54 jigger
                         Orange Bitters        1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                             EMERGENCY
            *^1"            Yz jigger     Orange Ice..size of walnut
                         Nutmeg               to taste
Shake well and strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg over and
serve.
                                 COCKTAILS



                                     EMPIRE
              Gin                  jigger  Calvados          54 jigger
                            Apricot Brandy....54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                       ENOS
              Gin              54 ji&gcr    Fr, Vermouth     54 jigg®*"
                            Absinthe           3 dashes

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                       ERIN
             Gin               Yi jigger  Creme de Menthe..H jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add green cherry
and serve.

                                 ERIN, No. 2
             Gin                jigger     Lemon               1 dash
             Creme de Menthe..^ jigger     Egg               of white
             Orange            1 dash      Nutmeg             to taste
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add green cherry,
grate nutmeg over and serve.

                                     ETHEL
             Apricot Brandy ...54 jigger   Creme de Menthe .54 jigger
                           Curacoa            54 jigg"
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                          ET MOI, JE TE DIS
             Armagnac         % jigger     Izarra           '/s jigger
                           Maraschino         % jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                  eureka
             Gin              54 jigger Grenadine           54 jigger
             Lemon            2 dashes     Orange              1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                               EXPOSITION
             Sloe Gin         54 jigger    Cherry Brandy ...54 jigger
                           Fr. Vermouth      54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
68                 BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS



                       EXTASE VOLUPTUEUSE
             Gin               2 spoons     Peppermint        2 spoons
             Benedictine        1 spoon     Cherry Brandy      1 spoon
             Champagne          1 spoon     Sugar Syrup        1 spoon
                           Cream                    jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg
over and serve.


                               EYE-OPENER
             Rum                   jigger   Curacoa           2 dashes
             Noyau             2 dashes     Absinthe          2 dashes
             Sweet-Sour         1 spoon     Egg                of white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                           FAIR & WARMER
             Sloe Gin          14 jigger    Sherry            y-^ jigger
             Dubonnet          y jigger     Benedictine          1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                        FAIR & WARMER, No. 2
             Bacardi           Yz jigger    It. Vermouth       Yz jigg®^
                            Curacoa               2 dashes

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                                                  i


                                FAIRBANKS
             Gin                Y jigger    Fr. Vermouth ....Yz jigger
             Noyau Rose         2 dashes    Orange Bitters ...2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled.cocktail glass, twist orange peel over
and serve.


                            FAIRBANKS, No. 2
                                54 jigger    Fr. Vermouth      54 jigger
              Apricot Brandy....54 jigger    Grenadine           1 dash
                            Lemon                   1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino
cherry and serve.

                             FAIR WEATHER
              Applejack           jigger     Orange Bitters      1 dash
              It. Vermouth ....Yz Jigger     Bitters            2 drops
                            Sugar Syrup            1 dash
Stir well in bar glass with lump of ice, twist lemon peel over, add mint leaf
and serve.
                                 COCKTAILS



                                FAIRY BELLE
            Gin                    jigger    Apricot Brandy...[/e jigger
            Grenadine            1 spoon     Egg            H of white
Shake well with ice, strain into frosted cocktail glass and serve.


                              FALLEN ANGEL
            Gin                 ^ jigger     Cremc de Menthe..2 dashes
            Lrcmon                1 spoon    Bitters            2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                 FANDANGO
            Gin                 Yi jigger    Izarra            Yi jigger
                             Vodka              '/i jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                     FANCY
            Whisky               1 jigger   Angostura           2 drops
            Curacoa               1 dash    Sugar Syrup           spoon
                             Lemon          slice of peel
Stir all well with ice and strain into frosted cocktail glass. Add Maraschino
cherry or part slice of orange and serve with ice water chaser.


                               FANCY, No. 2                                /
            Cognac              ^ jigger     Bitters            2 drops
            Champagne             1 dash     Sweet-Sour ....to wet glass
Stir cognac and bitters with ice. Wet chilled cocktail glass with
sweet-sour and pour in. Add dash of Champagne, twist lemon peel
over and serve.


                               FANCY SOUR
            It. Vermouth           jigger    Maraschino        3 dashes
            Orange Bitters       1 dash     Bitters             2 drops
                             Lemon             2 spoons
Stir well with ice, strain into old-fashioned whisky glass with lump of ice,
decorate and serve with spoon.

                                  FAN TAN
            Ginger Brandy,.,.^ jigger       Lemon               1 dash
            Tobasco           1 drop        Egg                of white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
70                 BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS



                                FANTASIO
             Cognac           54 jigger    Gin              54 jigger
             Maraschino       '/a jigger   Creme de Menthe..'/g jigger
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                              FASCINATOR
             Gin              54 jigger    Fr. Vermouth       5^ jigger
             Absinthe          2 dashes    Mint                 1 sprig
Shake all well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                          FAUX CE QU'IL FAUX
             Amaros           Yz jigger  Cognac               54 jigger
                           Cherry Brandy    54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                 FAVORIXE
             Cognac           54 jigger    Port               54 jigger
Stir well without ice and serve in cocktail glass with chaser (no ice).

                            FAVORIXE, No. 2
             Gin               54 jigger   Fr. Vermouth       54 jigger
             Apricot Brandy....54 jigger   Lemon                1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                     FEDORA
             Brandy            54 jigger   Curacoa            54 jigger
             Rum                1 spoon    Whisky              1 spoon
                           Sweet-Sour          2 spoons
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino
cherry and serve.

                                     FERNET
             Brandy            54 jigger Fernet                54 jigger
             Sugar Syrup       2 dashes     Bitters              2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange peel over
and serve.

                              FERNET, No. 2
             Gin               54 jigger    It. Vermouth       54 jigger
                            Fernet                Va jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                               COCKTAILS                                    71   1


                                 FIESOLE
             Perrier             jigger   Orgeat           1 spoon
             Gin              2 spoons    Lemon            1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                           FIFTH AVENUE
            Gin                jigger     Orange Marmalade 1 spoon
            Lemon             5 drops     Egg             of white
Stir marmalade with egg and lemon. Add gin and shake well with ice.
Strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve with candied rose petal.

                             FIFTY-FIFTY
             Gin             y jigger     Fr. Vermouth    y^ jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve. (Note: It. vermouth may be substituted for Fr. ver
mouth in this recipe.)


                          FINE AND DANDY
            Gin              y^ jigger    Cointreau       /4 jigger
            Lemon            54 jigger    Bitters           2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                  FIOUPE
            Brandy              jigger It. Vermouth ....^ jigger
                          Benedictine        1 spoon

Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino cherry,
twist lemon peel over and serve.

                                FITCHETT
            Gin                 jigger It. Vermouth       Vz jigger
            Benedictine      Yz jigger Orange Bitters       1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add pimola and


                            FIVE-FIFTEEN
            Curacoa          V-% iigger   Fr. Vermouth    Yz jigger
                          Creal . .         ^3 Jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg
over and serve.
                                                                             I



72                  BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS



                              FIVE FRUITS
            Whisky            ^ jigger      Orange           2 dashes
            Five Fruits       54 jigger     Bitters           2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve with ice
water chaser.

                          FLAMMES DE VELOURS
            Cognac             % jigger   Cherry Brandy. ...% jigger
            Benedictine        % jigger   Kummel            % jigger
                            Ginger Brandy    % jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                FLAP JACK
            Sherry             ^ jigger     Cream               jigger
                            Sugar Syrup         1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg
over and serve.


                                      FLASH
            Cointreau          ^ jigger      Benedictine     ^ jigger
            Kirschwasser       5^ jigger     Maraschino         1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                              FLOOR POLISH                                   i
            Gin                  jigger      It. Vermouth    l/g jigger
            Fr. Vermouth ....</e jigger      Pineapple       ^ jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                   FLORIDA
             Gin               1/5 jigger Orange Juice       % jigger
Shake well vyith ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                 FLORIDIAN
            Rum                   jigger     Gin                 jigger
                             Orange             5-5 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                             FLUFFY RUFFLES
                Bacardi         54 jigger     It. Vermouth        jigger
 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon
 peel over and serve.
i'                                   COCKTAILS                                 73


                             FLYING SCOTCHMAN
                  Whisky            ^ jigger     It. Vermouth     54 jigger
                  Bitters            4 drops     Sugar Syrup       1 spoon
     Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon
     peel over and serve.


                                       FOR YOU
                  Gin               % jigger     Kirschwasser     ^ jigger
                                 Prunelle           % jigger
     Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                  FOUR FLUSHER
                  Bacardi           54 jigger    Caloric          54 jigger
                  Fr. Vermouth      54 jigger    Grenadine          1 dash
     Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                 FOURTH DEGREE
                  Gin              54 jigger     Fr. Vermouth     i/e jigger
                  It. Vermouth ....'/q jigger    Absinthe            1 dash
                  Orange             1 spoon     Bitters             2 drops
     Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
     and serve.


                                      FOX RIVER
                  Whisky             54 jigger   Creme de Cocoa...54 jigger
                                 Peach Bitters       2 dashes

     Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon
     peel over and serve.


                                      FOX TROT
                  Bacardi               jigger    Curacoa          2 "dashes
                                 Sweet-Sour           1 spoon
     Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                        FRANCIS
                  Gin                   jigger    Fr. Vermouth    ^ Jigger
                  Cognac                jigger    Grand Marnier    1 dash
     Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
74                 BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS



                            FRANCKENJACK
             Gin               Yi jigger    Fr. Vermouth      Yz jigger
             Cointreau         1/9 jigger   Apricot Brandy. ..'/g jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.



                            FRANK SULLIVAN
             Cognac            Yz jigger    Cointreau         Ya jigger
             Kina Lillet       Ya jigger    Sweet-Sour         Ya jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                                                               ,i
                                      FRENCH
             Gin               % jigger     Kirschwasser       54 Jigger
             Prunelle          54 jigger    Grenadine           1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                FRENCH '75
             Gin               Y jigger     Calvados           Ya jigger
             Grenadine          1 spoon     Lemon               I spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                             FR. VERMOUTH
             Fr. Vermouth       1 jigger    Orange Bitters ...2 dashes
                            Bitters              2 drops
Stir well in bar glass with lump of ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass,
add olive or pickled hazelnut with lemon peel over and serve.


                                      FRISCO
             Whisky            ^ jigger     Benedictine        Y jigger
     well in bar glass with lump of ice, twist lemon peel over top and serve
with spoon and ice water chaser.


                            FRISCO-SHANGHAI
             Gin                Y jigger    It. Vermouth        Yz jigg"
                            Bitters              2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add green olive
and serve.
                                COCKTAILS                                 7S



                                     FRISSON
            Amaros            yi jigger    Cognac           '/e jigger
            Cherry Brandy....I/q jigger    Sugar Syrup        1 spoon
                         Egg                Yi of white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg
over and serve.

                                 FROTHER
            Gin               Ya jigger    Grenadine          1 spoon
                           Egg                   white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg
over and serve.

                               FROU FROU
            Gin               54 jigger    Fr. Vermouth .-..yi jigger
            It. Vermouth         jigger    Bacardi           1 spoon
            Pineapple          ^ slice     Orange            54 slice
Bruise fruit and shake all well with ice. Strain into chilled cocktail glass,
add Maraschino cherry and serve.

                                     FROUPE
            Cognac             yi jigger   It. Vermouth      54 jigger
                           Benedictine         1 spoon

Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon
peel over and serve.

                              FULL HOUSE
            Bacardi           54 jigger    Fr. Vermouth     % jigger
                           Caloric            54 jigg"
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                              GANGADINE
            Gin               54 jigger    Creme de Menthe..54 jigger
            Oxygenee          ^ jigger     Raspberry Syrup...1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve. (Note:
In season substitute four fresh raspberries and 1 spoon sugar syrup for
raspberry syrup.)

                           GARBO GARGLE
            Cognac            % jigger     Fr. Vermouth     54 jigger
            Grenadine         54 jigger    Orange           54 jigger
                           Creme de Menthe....! dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, float 1 spoon
Port wine over and serve.
76                 BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS



                                  GASPER
            Gin              Yi jigger     Absinthe            jigger
                          Sugar Syrup           1 dash
Shake—well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                  GAZETTE
             Cognac           Y jigger     It. Vermouth     Y jigger
                          Sweet-Sour           Ys jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                   GENE CORRIE (GENEVIEVE)
             Gin                  jigger   Hercules         Y jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                              GIBSON, DRY
            Gin              ^ jigger          Vermouth        jigger
Stir well in bar glass -with lump of ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass,
add pickled onion and serve.

                          GIBSON, MEDIUM
            Gin                   jigger   Fr. Vermouth        jigger
                          It. Vermouth        54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over,
add pickled onion and serve.

                      GIBSON, OLD FASHIONED
            Gin               Yi jigger    Fr. Vermouth ....54 jigger
                          Sugar                54 lump
Stir well in bar glass with ice, twist lemon peel over and serve.

                            GIBSON, SWEET
            Gin              54 jigger     It. Vermouth     54 jigger
                           Sugar Syrup           1 dash
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add pickled onion and
serve.



                                 GIGOLA
             Whisky          54 jigger Honey                    spoon
             Cream            54 jigger    Nutmeg               tgste
Stir honey and cream, with no ice, in bar glass. Add whisky, stir, grate
nutmeg over and serve.
                                  COCKTAILS                                 77



                                    GILROY
             Gin               Vi jigger   Cherry Cordial....;^ jigger
             Fr. Vermouth      i/g jigger  Lemon             '/e jigger
                            Orange Bitters      1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                    GIMLET
             Gin               ^ jigger      Lime Syrup         K jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                        GIN
             Gin                1 jigger     Orange Bitters ...2 dashes
                            Lemon                 1 dash

Stir well in bar glass with lump of ice, twist lemon peel over and serve.

                                   GIN, No. 2
             Gin               1 jigger      Bitters             2 drops
             Orange Bitters ...2 dashes      Gum Syrup           1 spoon
             Absinthe           3 drops      Lemon              1 spoon
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.

                                   GIN, No. 3
             Gin                   jigger    Bitters              1 drop
             Curacoa               1 dash    Sweet-Sour          1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                    GIN, No.4
             Gin                    jigger   Fr. Vermouth ...      jigger
             Grenadine            1 spoon    Lemon               1 spoon
                            Egg               Yt of white                        '
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                              GIN BLIND
             Gin                    jigger   Curacoa            Ya jigger
             Cognac               1 spoon    Orange Bitters        1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                              GIN-CAPERITIF
             Gin               54 jigger     Caperitif          54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon
peel over and serve.
78                    BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS



                                   GIN, DRY
             Gin               1 jigger      Orange Bitters ...2 dashes
                            Absinthe               3 drops    $

Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve with ice water chaser.

                                   GIN FLIP
             Gin              ^ jigger       Grenadine            1 spoon
             Egg             % of yolk       Nutmeg               to taste
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg over
and serve.

                              GIN,ITALIAN
             Gin               54 jigger     It. Vermouth         54 jigger
             Sherry            54 jigger     Bitters                2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                         GIN, ITALIAN, No. 2
             Gin
             Orange
                               Yi jigger
                               2 spoons
                                             It. Vermouth
                                             Mint
                                                                  54 jigger
                                                                    1 sprig
                                                                                i
Bruise mint and shake all well with ice. Strain into chilled cocktail glass,
add mint leaf and serve.

                            GIN, MARASCHINO
             Gin               54 jigger     Sweet-Sour           2 spoons
                            Maraschino             3 dashes

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                            GINGER ROGERS
             Fr. Vermouth      54 jigger     Gin                  54 jigger
             Apricot Brandy....54 jigger     Lemon                .2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                             GIN-SOUTHERN
             Gin               54 jigger     Curacoa              2 dashes
                            Orange Bitters         2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                 GLAD EYE
             Absinthe          54 jigger Sugar Syrup               1 spoon
                            Mint                   1 sprig
Bruise mint and shake all well with ice, until frost appears on shaker.
Strain into frosted cocktail glass and serve.




                                                                                A
                               COCKTAILS                                       79



                           GLAD EYE, No. 2
             Absinthe         54 jigger     Peppermint        54 jigger
Shake with ice until well frapped, drain through absinthe dripper
filled with shaved ice into chilled cocktail glass and serve with cut
straws.


                            GLOOM CHASER
             Curacoa          54 jigg""     Grenadine         54 jigg®r
             Grand Marnier....54 jigg®^     Lemon             54 j^gg®^
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                            GLOOM RAISER
             Gin              54 jigger     Fr. Vermouth ....54 jigger
             Absinthe         2 dashes      Grenadine         2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.

                                   GLORIA
             Gin              ^ jigger      Lemon              1 spoon
             Grenadine         1 spoon      Egg             54 of white
                           Mint                   1 sprig
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                             GLORIA, No. 2
             Gin              54 jigger     Fr. Vermouth      54 jigger
             Cointreau        J/fe jigger   Campari           I/a j'gg^r
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                  GLORIANA
             Apricot Brandy ..54 jigger     Gin               54 jigger
                           Lime                   S drops                  '
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                  GODDESS
           Absinthe          % jigger Anisette           ?4 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                            GOLDEN DAWN
             Gin              54 jigger     Calvados          54 jigger
             Apricot Brandy...54 jigger     Orange            54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
80                 BOOTHBY'S WORLD DRINKS

                          GOLDEN DAWN, No. 2
             Bacardi         ^ jigger         Cointreau       Ye, jigger
             Gin             Yn jigger        Orange          Ya, jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                            GOLDEN ERMINE
             Gin               Y2 jigger      Fr. Vermouth        5^ jigger
                           It. Vermouth          5^ jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                             GOLDEN GATE
             Gin              ^ jigger        Orange              54 jigger
                           Sweet-Sour               1 spoon

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                             GOLDEN GIRL
             Sherry           54 jigger       Gin                 54 jigger
             Orange Bitters ...2 dashes       Bitters               2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                             GOLDEN GLOW
             Gin               Yz jigger      Yellow Chartreuse      jigger
                            It. Vermouth            jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add stuffed olive
and serve.


                            GOLDEN SLIPPER
             Chartreuse           54 jigger    Eau de Vie         54 jigger
                            Egg                  54 of yolk
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                       GOOD
             Brandy          '.54 jigger       Benedictine        54 jigger
             Bitters ^          2 drops        Sugar Syrup        2 dashes
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.


                                    GRADEAL
             Bacardi          54I jigger
                                  jigger       Gin
                                               Gin ..              ^4 jigger
             Apricot Brandy...54I jigger
                                  jigger       Lemon
                                               Lemon                   dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                COCKTAILS                                   81



                                   GRAND
             Whisky           H jigger     It. Vermouth         jigger
                           Anisette           2 spoons
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange peel over
and serve.


                            GRAND ROYAL
             Gin              ^ jigger     Grenadine          1 spoon
             Lemon             1 spoon     Egg                  whole
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                             GRAND SLAM
             Caloric          5^ jigger    Fr. Vermouth         jigger
                          It. Vermouth             jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                              GRAPE-VINE
             Gin              Vi jigger    Grape ...         ^ jigger
             Lemon            yi, jigger   Grenadine           1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                              GRAPEFRUIT
             Gin              5^ jigger    Grapefruit Jelly.1 teaspoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled            cocktail glass and serve.
(Note: Grapefruit juice, 2 spoons, and sugar syrup, 1 spoon, may be
substituted for jelly in this recipe.)


                            GREAT SECRET
             Gin              5<3 jigger   Kina Lillet       Vz jigger
                          Bitters              2 dro^s
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange
peel over
r>(.p1 over and
            and serve.
                serve.

                                   GREEN

             Gin             ^ jigger      Lemon            54 jigger
                          Peppermint             1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
82                   BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS



                              GREENBRIAR
            Sherry               jigger    Fr. Vermouth       jigger
                           Peach Bitters        1 dash

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                           GREEN DRAGON
            Gin                   jigger   Creme de Mcnthe..^ jigger
            Kummel              1 spoon    Lemon            1 spoon
                           Peach Bitters      2 dashes

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                              GREEN ROOM
            Fr. Vermouth      ^ jigger     Cognac             jigger
                           Curacoa            2 dashes

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                               GREEN STAR
            Kirschwasser       54 jigger   Curacoa            1 spoon
            Peppermint          1 spoon    Sugar Syrup       2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add bits of
orange and serve.


                                GRENADIER
            Cognac             yi jigger    Ginger Brandy.      jigger
            Jamaica Ginger       1 dash     Sweet-Sour        1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                     GUARDS
            Gin                Yi jigger    It. Vermouth     y jigger
                            Curacoa            2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                     GUMP'S
            Brandy             ^ jigger     Grenadine         l spoon
                            Lemon               1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino
cherry, twist lemon peel over and serve.
                                 COCKTAILS



                                      GYPSY
             Gin                     jigger   It. Vermouth       Yt jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon
peel over and serve.
                                     HAKAM
             Gin                Yz jigger      It. Vermouth      Y jigger
             Curacoa            2 dashes       Orange Bitters     1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add stuffed olive
and serve.

                                     H AND H
             Gin                Yi jigger      Kina Lillet       Y jigger
                            Curacoa               2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange
peel over and serve.

                        HANDS ACROSS THE SEA
        (Blue Ribbon, International Bartenders' Competition,
                               London, England)
             Whisky             Ya jigger      Creme de Menthe..^ jigger
             Grapefruit Juice... jigger        Champagne        Ya jigger
             Bitters             2 drops       Maple Syrup       2 spoons
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                              HANKY PANK
             Gin                Yi jigger     It. Vermouth      Yi jigger
                            Fernet                2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange
peel over and serve.
                             HARLEM, No. 2
             Gin               Ya jigger      Orange             1 spoon
             Lemon               1 dash       Sugar                 lump
             Absinthe             1 dash      Mint               ^ leaves
Crush mint with sugar and few drops of water. Add gin, orange juice
and lemon juice and shake well with ice. Strain into chilled cocktail
glass, add dash of absinthe over top and serve.

                               HARROVIAN
             Gin               34 jigger      Orange             1 spoon
             Sweet-Sour        2 dashes       Bitters            2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
84                 BOOTHBY'S           WORLD          DRINKS



                    HARRY PAYNE WHITNEY
             Gin              Yi jigger        Vermouth         '/e jigger
             Fr. Vermouth ....'/g jigger    Orange           slice of peel
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                  HARRY'S
             Gin               % jigger     It. Vermouth         ^ jigger
                            Absinthe               1 dash

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add sprig of
mint, float dash of pimento over and serve.


                                 HARVARD
             Gin               54 jigger    Grenadine             1 spoon
                            Curacoa                1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                             HARVARD, No. 2
             Brandy            54 jigger    It. Vermouth ....V5 jigger
             Sweet-Sour         2 dashes    Angostura         2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.

                                       HASTY
             Gin                ^ jigger     Fr. Vermouth        ^ jigger
              Grenadine         4 dashes     Absinthe               1 dash

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                   HAVANA
             Cognac           54 jigger      Maraschino              jigger
             Orange Curacoa ..14 jigger      Quino Bitters          1 dash
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve

                               HAVANA, No. 2
             Bacardi            ^ jigger     Sherry              ^ Jigger
                             Lemon                 3 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add pickled onion
and serve.

                              HAVANA, No. 3
              Apricot Brandy...^ jigger      Gin                      jigger
              Caloric           54 jigg®r    Lemon                   1 dash
 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                               COCKTAILS                                85



                                  HAWAII
            Cin               ^ jigger     Orange Bitters      1 dash
            Pineapple           jigger     Egg            "A of white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                HAWAIIAN
            Applejack         54 jigger    Maraschino         1 dash
            Pineapple         Yz jigger    Lemon              1 dash
                         Sugar Syrup           1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                           HAWAIIAN, No. 2
             Gin                  jigger   Orange              jigger
                          Curacoa              1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add segments
of pineapple and serve.

                                  HEALTH
            Hercules              jigger   Cognac           14 jigger
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                  HEATHER
            Whisky            Y jigger     Fr. Vermouth     54 jigger
            Orange Bitters ...3 dashes     Bitters           2 drops
                          Grenadine          2 dashes

Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                             HELEN'S OWN
            Gin               Y} jigger    Fr. Vermouth     Y jigger
            Apricot Brandy....2 dashes     Orange           2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                    HELL .
            Cognac            Y jigger     Creme de Menthe..}^ jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, dust pinch
of cayenne pepper over and serve.


                              HESITATION
            Caloric           54 jigger    Whisky           54 jigger
                          Lemon                 1 dash

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
86                 BOOTHBY'S            WORLD           DRINKS
 (




                                   HEY HEY
             Brandy             ^ jigger       Cointreau        54 jigger
             Kina Lillet        54 jigger      Lemon            54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                H. G. WELLS
             Whisky             ^ jigger       Fr. Vermouth      5^ jigger
                            Absinthe                  1 dash

Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon
peel over and serve.


                                  HIGH HAT

                           (A La Norma Shearer)
             Cognac              54 jigger     Grapefruit        54 jigger
                             Sugar Syrup              1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                  HIGH LIFE
             Brandy              54 jigger     Port Wine          54 jigger
             Sugar Syrup          1 spoon      Egg              54 of white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                       HI HO
             Gin                 3^ jigger     Port Wine          34 jigg®^
                              Orange Bitters           1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                  HILLSBORO
             Gin              54 jigger        Orange Bitters       1 dash
             Fr. Vermouth ....54 jigger        Bitters              1 drop
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add pickled onion
and serve.


                                       HOBBY
             Whisky              54 jigger      Gin               54 jigger
             Orange Bitters        1 dash       Curacoa             1 dash
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.
                               COCKTAILS                                   87



                                  HOBSON
             Sloe Gin        Yi jigger     Curacoa            5^ jigger
                          Absinthe                1 dash

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                             HOLLYWOOD
             Bacardi        ^ jigger       Grapefruit          1 spoon
             Grenadine       1 spoon       Egg             54 of white
                          Nutmeg               to taste

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg over
and serve.


                                   HONEY
             Bacardi            jigger     Lime              Ya jigger
                          Honey                1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                            HONEYMOON
             Applejack       Ys jigger      Benedictine       Ya jigger
             Curacoa         3 dashes      Lemon               1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                          HOFFMAN HOUSE
             Gin             Ys jigger      Fr. Vermouth      Yz jigger
                          Orange Bitters       2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add green olive,
twist lemon peel over and serve.


                          HOLLAND HOUSE
             Gin             Yz jigger-     Fr. Vermouth      Ya jigger
             Maraschino      4 dashes       Lemon              1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add segments of
pineapple and serve.

                             HOMESTEAD
             Gin             Yz jigger     It. Vermouth       Yz j'igger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add segments of
orange and serve.
88                  BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS



                                HONG KONG
             Gin              Yi jigger       Bitters            2 drops
             Fr. Vermouth ....Ys jigger       Lime               1 spoon
                            Sugar Syrup           1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                            HONG KONG, No. 2
             Gin                   jigger     Fr. Vermouth      ^ jigger
             Orange             54 jigger     Kirschwasser .......5 drops
                             Sweet-Sour           2 dashes

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                  HONOLULU
             Gin               54 jigger      Grenadine         2 dashes
             Pineapple Juice ..54 jigger      Lemon               I dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                              HONOLULU, No. 2
             Gin                 54 jigger    Lemon             2 dashes
             Orange Juice        54 jigger    Pineapple          1 spoon
                              Nutmeg               to taste

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg over
and serve.

                              HONOLULU, No. 3
              Gin                Y jigger      Benedictine       Ya jigger
                              Maraschino           Ya jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                              HONOLULU CAFE
              Gin                Yi jigger     Fr. Vermouth      Yi jigger
              Pineapple          ^ jigger      Cream             ^ jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                    HONOLULU, OLD FASHIONED                                   ^
              Gin                  1 jigger     Curacoa            2 dashes
              Bitters             2 dashes      Sweet-Sour        2 spoons
                              Orange                1 spoon
 Stir well with ice in bar glass and serve.

                             HONOLULU, SILVER
 Same as Honolulu or Honolulu No. 2, but with ^ of white of egg added.
                                 COCKTAILS                                    89



                           HONOLULU,SPECIAL
             Gin               1/3 jigger      Lemon              H jigger
             Fr. Vermouth        1 spoon       Grenadine           1 spoon
             Orange              1 spoon       Curacoa            3 dashes
                            Bitters                   2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                      HOOPLA
             Cognac              jigger        Cointreau          ^ jigger
             Kina Lillet       % jigger        Lemon              54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                 HOOT MON
             Whisky             Vz jigger      It. Vermouth       ^ jigger
                            Kina Lillet              Yn jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                      HOOVER
             Bacardi           Yz jigger       It. Vermouth       Y jigger
                            Curacoa                      1 dash

Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.

                                 HOP TOAD
             Apricot Brandy.          jigger   Lemon                 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                  HOT DECK
      •      Whisky                   jigger   It. Vermouth       ^ jigger
                            Jamaica Ginger               1 dash
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                               HOULA HOULA
             Gin                Vi jigger      Orange             54 jigger
                             Curacoa                 1    spoon

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                       H. P. W.
             It. Vermouth ....}4 jigger        Gin                Yi jigger
                             Orange                  54 slice
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
90                 BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS



                               H.P. W.,DRY
             Gin               Yz jigger   Fr. Vermouth    Y^ jigger
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon
peel over and serve.


                                HUGUETTE
             Rum              % jigger     Whisky             jigger
             Cognac            Ys jigger   Curacoa         % jigger
                           Sugar Syrup         1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add segments of
fruits and serve.



                          HUNDRED PER CENT
             Caloria              jigger   Lemon            Ye jigger
             Orange            Ye jigger   Grenadine        2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                               HURRICANE
             Whisky           Yi, jigger   Gin              ^ jigger
             Creme de Menthe.     jigger   Lemon            2 spoons
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                     IDEAL
             Gin                 jigger    It. Vermouth        jigger
             Maraschino        3 dashes    Grapefruit        1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add green cherry
and serve.


                              I-DON'T-CARE
             Whisky            Yt jigger   Creme de Menthe..5^ jigger
                           Raspberry Syrup      1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                 IMPERIAL
             Cognac            Yi jigger   Port Wine        Yi jigger
                           Curacoa            Ye jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                   COCKTAILS                                  91



                                IMPERIAL No. 2
                 Gin               54 jigger     Fr. Vermouth     5^ jigger
                 Maraschino           1 dash     Bitters            2 drops

    Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add stuffed olive
    and serve.

                                          INCA
                 Gin                 jigeer      Sherry           54 jigg"
                 Fr. Vermouth ....54 jigg®*"     Orange Bitters ...2 dashes
                                Orgeat              2 dashes
    Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add small piece pine
    apple, twist orange peel over and serve.

                                          INDIAN
                 Sloe Gin     ....54 jigger      It. Vermouth     54 jigger
                 Fr. Vermouth     54 jigger      Orange Bitters     1 dash
    Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                 INDISPENSIBLE
                 Gin               Yz jigger     Fr. Vermouth       1 spoon
                 It. Vermouth      2 dashes      Absinthe            1 dash
    Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange
    peel over and serve.

                                   INNOVATION
                 Cognac            54 jigger     Grand Marnier ...54 jigger
                 Port Wipe            1 spoon    Sugar Syrup        1 spoon
                                Egg               54 of white
    Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg
    over and serve.

                                          IRISH
                 Creme de Menthe 54 jigger       Fr. Vermouth ....54 jigger
                                Orange Bitters        1 dash
    Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                      IRISH, No. 2
                 Whisky            54 jigger     Curacoa           2 dashes
                 Absinthe          2 dashes      Maraschino          1 dash
                                Bitters               2 drops
    Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add green olive,
    twist orange peel over and serve.




L
92                   BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS



                              IRISH, No. 3
             Whisky .        ^ jigger       Peppermint        3 dashes
                          Chartreuse            1 spoon

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add green olive,
and serve.


                               IRISH ROSE
             Whisky          % jigger       Lemon             % jigger
                          Grenadine            2 spoons

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                             IRRESISTIBLE
             Rum             • 1/2 jigger
                                   jigger   It. Vermo
                                            It. Vermouth ....54 jigger
             Lemon            1 spoon
                            ..1             Benedictine
                                            Benedictin        1 spoon

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                         IRRESISTIBLE, No.2
             Rum          ...54 jigger      It. Vermouth ....54 jigger
             Apricot Brandy ...1 spoon      Lemon             1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel ovei
and serve.


                                ISABELITA
             Gin              14 jigger     It. Vermouth       j4 jigger
             Grenadine         1 spoon       Orange              1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, dash peppermint
over and serve.


                             JABBERWOCK
             Gin              Vi jigger     Sherry            ^ jigger
             Caperitif            jigger    Orange Bitters         1 dash
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.


                            JACK DEMPSEY
             Gin              % jigger
                           ■'"Va jigger     Bacardi
                                            Bacardi ...      ..54 jigger
                           Sweet-Sour            1 spoon
                                                   spooi
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.




                                                              r.
                                 COCKTAILS                                 93



                              JACK KEARNS
             Gin               54 jigger     Bacardi           J4 jigger
                            Sweet-Sour           1 spoon

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                JACK PINE
             Gin               Yi jigger     Fr. Vermouth        jigger
             Pineapple          segment      Orange            segment
Shake all well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                              JACK RABBIT
             Applejack            jigger     Maple Syrup      Ye, jigger
             Lemon              1 spoon      Orange,            1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                JACK ROSE
             Applejack         5^ jigger     Grenadine        ^4 Jigger
                            Lemon                1 spoon

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                            JACK ROSE, No. 2
             Brandy           Yi jigger      Lemon             1 spoon
                            Grenadine            1 spoon
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                 JACKSON
             Gin               Yi jigger     Dubonnet         54 jigger
                            Orange Bitters      2 dashes

Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add pickled onion
and serve.

                             JACK WITHERS
             Gin               54 jigger     Fr: Vermouth     54 jigger
             It. Vermouth      54 jigger     Orange         ....1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                 JAPANESE
             Brandy             1 jigger     Orange Bitters....2 dashes
             Orgeat              1 spoon     Bitters            2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve with ice water chaser.
94                 BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS



                            JAPANESE, No. 2
             Gin                 jigger    Orgeat          14 j'BBer
                            Lemon             1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                           JEAN DE LA LUNE
             Cognac            5^ jisBer   Peppermint       Yz jisBcr
             Anisette            1 dash    Bitters           2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add pinch of
Cayenne pepper, twist lemon peel over and serve.


                             JEAN HARLOW
             Bacardi           54 jiBB^t   It. Vermouth     yi jiBSer
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add pickled hazel
nut and serve.


                               JERSEY CITY
             Applejack        54 ji&ger    Pineapple         1 spoon
             Sugar Syrup        1 spoon    Bitters           2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.


                           JERSEY LIGHTNING
             Applejack         1 jigger    Bitters           2 drops
                            Sugar Syrup        2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino
cherry, twist lemon peel over and serve.


                                    JEWEL
             Gin               54 jigger   It. Vermouth     54 jigger
             Chartreuse        54 jigger   Orange Bitters....2 dashes
Shake well with ice,, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino
cherry, twist lemon peel over and serve.


                                  JEYPLAK
             Gin               54 jigger   It. Vermouth      54 jigger
                            Absinthe             1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon
peel over and serve.
                                      COCKTAILS                                95



                                  JIMMIE BLANC
                 Gin                 Yi jigger    Kina Lillet      54 j'gger
                                 Dubonnet            2 dashes

    Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange
    peel over and serve.

                                 JIMMIE WALKER
                Whisky              ^ jigger      It. Vermouth
                Grenadine            1 dash       Lemon              1 dash
    Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                           JOBURG
                Bacardi             54 jigger     Caperitif        54 jigger
                                 Orange Bitters     .,3 dashes
    Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
    over and serve.

                                   JOCKEY CLUB
                Whisky             54 jigger      It. Vermouth     54 jigger
                                 Maraschino         2 dashes

    Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                            JOCKEY CLUB, SPECIAL
                Gin                 ^ jigger      Noyau             2 dashes
                Bitters              2 drops      Orange Bitters      1 dash
                                 Lemon               2 dashes
    Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                   JOHNIE MACK
                Sloe Gin            54 jigger     Curacoa          54 jigger
                                 Absinthe            3 dashes
    Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                    JOHN WOOD
                Whisky              54 jigger     It. Vermouth     54 jigger
                Kummel                1 spoon     Lemon             1 spoon
                                 Bitters              2 drops
    Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                            JONES
                Sloe Gin            54 jigger
                                         gger     It. \
                                                      Vermouth     54 jigger
                Cherry Cordial        1 dash      Peychaud
                                                  Peyc               1 dash
    Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.




L
96                 BOOTHBY'S            WORLD         DRINKS



                                    JORIO
             Gin               % jigger     It. Vermouth     % jigger
             Fr. Vermouth      54 jigger    Orange            1 spoon
                            Pineapple           1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                    J. o. s.
             Gin               54 jigger    It. Vermouth     54 jigger
             Fr. Vermouth      % jigger     Cognac             1 dash
             Orange Bitters       1 dash    Lemon              1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon
peel over and serve.

                                  JOSETTE
             Cognac                jigger   Curacoa           54 jigger
             Anisette           Yn jigger   Egg             Y^ of white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg
over and serve.


                                JOURNALIST
             Gin                54 jigger   It. Vermouth       1 spoon
             Fr. Vermouth        1 spoon    Curacoa           2 dashes
             Bitters              2 drops   Sweet-Sour        2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add ripe olive
and serve.


                                 JUDGE, JR.
             Gin                Y^ jigger   Bacardi          ^ jigger
             Grenadine          Ya jigger   Sweet-Sour       Ya jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                  JUDGETTE
             Gin                Ya jigger    Fr. Vermouth     Ya jigger
             Peach Brandy       Ya jigger    Sweet-Sour        1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                JUNE BRIDE
             Gin                54 jiggct    Sweet-Sour        2 spoons
             Egg              54 of white    Liqueur (choice)..2 dashes
Shake well in ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                   COCKTAILS                                 97



                                      JUNGLE
             Gin                  yi jigger   It. Vermouth       yi jigger
                            Sherry                  yi jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                     JUNIPER
             Gin                  5^ jigger   Fr. Vermouth          jigger
                            Grenadine               2 dashes

Shake well with ice. strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                     JUPITER
            Gin                      jigger   Fr. Vermouth          jigger
            Parfait Amour          1 spoon    Orange              1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                      KAISER
            Kummel                yi jigger   Gin               54 jigger
                            Fr. Vermouth ....2 dashes

Shake well in ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                    KATINKA
            Gin                      jigger   Chartreuse          1 spoon
            Medoc                  1 spoon    Bitters             2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                      K. C. B.
            Gin              54 jigger        Kirschwasser       54 jigger
            Apricot Brandy../...! dash        Lemon             ...1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                     KEENEY
            Gin Cordial           % jigger    Fr. Vermouth ....'/s jigger
Shake well in ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                     KICKER
            Bacardi               54 jigger   Calvados           54 jigger
                            It.   Vermouth          2 dashes

Shake well with ice. strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
     98                 BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS



                                            KIKl
                  Gin                  jigger     Noyau              1 dash
                  Cointreau           1 dash      Sweet-Sour       2 spoons
                                 Bitters              2 drops
     Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                           KILTIE
                  Whisky            54 jigger     Fr. Vermouth     Yi jigger
                                 Bitters             '..2 drops
     Stir well with'ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange peel over
     and serve.


                                     KILTIE, No. 2
                  Whisky            54 jigger     It. Vermouth     Y3 jigger
                                 Orange Bitters      2 dashes
     Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add pimola, twist
     lemon peel over and serve.

                                            KINA
                  Gin                54 jigger    It. Vermouth      54 jigger
                                 Kina Lillet          54 jigger
     Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                       KING COLE
                  Whisky             54 jigger     Fernet             1 dash
                                  Sweet-Sour              1 dash

     Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add bits of orange
     and pineapple and serve.

                                           KINGSTON
                  Rum                 54 jigger    Kummel           54 jigger
                  Pimento               1 dash     Orange           54 jigger
     Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, dash pimento
     over and serve.


                                     KIRKPATRICK
                   Gin Cordial        54 jigger    Fr. Vermouth     54 jigger
     Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange peel over
     and serve.




L.                                                                                    i
                                    COCKTAILS                                 99



                                    KLONDYKE
             Applejack         ^ jigger    Fr. Vermoutli          jigger
                             Orange Bitters ...3 dashes
 Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add pimola, twist lemon
 peel over and serve.


                             KNICKERBOCKER
             Rum              ^ jigger       Pineapple Syrup ..1 spoon
             Raspberry Syrup ,.l spoon       Orange            1 spoon
                            Lemon                  1 spoon

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                         KNICKERBOCKER, No. 2
             Gin                Yi jigger    Fr. Vermouth      Yi jigger
                            It. Vermouth            1   dash

Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add green olive,
twist lemon peel over and serve.


                                KNOCKOUT
             Gin               54 ji&gar     Absinthe         54 jigger
             Fr. Vermouth      54 jigger     Creme de Menthe....! dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                      KOLA
             Kola               54 jigger    Gin               54 jigger
                            Orange Bitters         2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                               LA BLANCHE
             Cointreau         54 jigger     Anisette          r54 jigger
                            Curacoa             54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                    LADIES'
            Whisky                  jigger   Absinthe          2 dashes
            Anisette           2 dashes      Bitters            2 drops

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add bits of
pineapple and serve.
                    BOOTHBY'S          WORLD          DRINKS



                           LADIES' CHOICE
            Gin                  jigger     Curacoa            1 spoon
            Orange            2 spoons      Sweet-Sour        2 spoons
                           Egg               54 of white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                        LA FEMME DU MONDE
            Champagne,         54 jigger    Kirschwasser      </e jigger
            Prunella           '/a jigger   Sugar Syrup         1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, garnish with bits
of fruit and serve.

                           LA FIN DU MONDE
            Rum                VS jigger    Lemon             ^ jigger
            Framboise          2 spoons     Curacoa           1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon
peel over and serve.

                                  LAKESIDE
            Brandy          54 jigger       Creme de Cocoa ..54 jigger
            Creme de Menthe 54 jigger       Cointreau        54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                               LA MA DONE
             Benedictine       54 jigger     Medoc            54 jigger
             Kummel            54 jigger     Ginger Brandy ...54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                               LAMBS' CLUB
             Gin              54 jigger      It. Vermouth      54 jigger
             Fr. Vermouth ....54 jigger      Benedictine       2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                   L'AMOUR
             Gin               54 jigger     Cherry Cordial     1 spoon
             Lemon               1 spoon     Mint               1 sprig
 Bruise mint and shake all well with ice. Strain into chilled cocktail glass,
 add mint leaf and serve.

                                  LANDLADY
              Gin              54 jigger      Grenadine          1 spoon
                            Egg                54 of white
 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg
 over and serve.
                                 COCKTAILS                                101



                        LA NEGRESSE BLONDE
              Creme de Cocoa...^ jigger    Cognac             % ji&gcr
              Gin              % jigger    Cream              54 jigger
                            Vanilla Extract        1 drop
 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                   LA PLACE
             Whisky           Yi jigger    It. Vermouth          jigger
                            Orange Bitters ...2 dashes
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                     LASKY
              Gin            r.Yz jigger   Caloric            Yz jigger
                           Grape              Yi jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                 LAST KISS
             Bacardi          5^ jigger    Brandy             1 spoon
             Gin                 jigger    Fr. Vermouth       1 spoon
                           Sweet-Sour         2 spoons
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                           LAUGHING SOUP
             Gin               Y jigger    Fr. Vermouth      54 jigger
                           Sweet-Sour          2 spoons
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                   LAWHILL
             Whisky            Yi jigger   Fr. Vermouth      54 jigger
             Absinthe            1 dash    Maraschino           1 dash
                           Bitters             2 drops-
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino
cherry and serve.

                                     LAW'S
             Port             54 jigger    Brandy            54 jigger
             Sugar Syrup        1 spoon    Egg              54 of yolk
                           Nutmeg             to taste
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg over
and serve.
                   BOOTHBY'S           WORLD           DRINKS



                        LEAGUE OF NATIONS
            Brandy                jigger     Champagne          yi jigger
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                              LEAP YEAR
            Gin              ^ jigger        Grand Marnier... J/e jigger
            It. Vermouth     '/g             Sweet-Sour          1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon
peel over and serve.
                           LEAVE-IT-TO-ME
            Gin               Yi jigger      Fr. Vermouth       '/g jigger
            Apricot Brandy...'/g jigger      Grenadine             1 dash
                           Lemon                     1 dash

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                        LEAVE-IT-TO-ME, No. 2
             Gin              Yn jigger      Maraschino            1 dash
             Raspberry Syrup...! spoon       Lemon                1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                 LEE TRACY
             Sloe Gin              jigger    Curacoa                jigger
                           Absinthe                 2 dashes

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                    LE SIME
             Rum              14 jigger       Cherry Brandy      14 jigger
             Orange              14 jigger    Sugar Syrup          i spoon
                           Egg                 14 of white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                           LES PETITS POIS
             Cognac            Is jigger      Gin                ^ jigger
                           Izarra                   14 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                      L'ETTA
             Bacardi          14 jigger       It. Vermouth        14 jigger
             Apricot Brandy....4 dashes       Grenadine           2 dashes
                           Lemon                     1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                COCKTAILS                                  103



                               L'ETTA, No. 2
              Gin                  jigger   Bacardi               jigger
              Cointreau        '/e jigger   Sweet-Sour        '/e jigger
 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                    LIAR'S
              Gin              ^ jigger     Fr. Vermouth        jieger
              Curacoa           1 spoon     It. Vermouth      2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange
peel over and serve.
                                  LIBERAL
             Whisky'           5^ jigger    Picon             54 jigger
                            Sugar Syrup             1 dash
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.

                                  LIBERTY
             Applejack         ^ jigger     Bacardi          % jigger
                           Sweet-Sour               1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon
peel over and serve.
                                  LILIANE
             Creme de Cocoa...54 jigger Kirschwasser          54 jigger
             Cognac           54 jigger Grenadine              1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                     LILY
             Gin              54 jigger Kina Lillet           54 jigger
             Noyau            54 jigger Sweet-Sour           ...1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                               LINDBERGH
             Kina Lillet       54 jigger Gin                 54 jigger
             Pricota            1 spoon     Orange             1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon
peel over and serve.
                                LINSTEAD
             Whisky           54 jigger     Absinthe           1 dash
                           Pineapple Syrup...54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon
peel over and serve.
104                BOOTHBY'S WORLD DRINKS

                                LIONEL
            Whisky       -..Vt jigger     Ginger Ale      54 j'gger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                            LION TAMER
            Gin             ^ jigger      Raspberry Ice      jigger
Shake well without ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                         LITTLE PRINCESS
            Bacardi          54 jigger    It. Vermouth    54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon
peel over and serve.

                                  LOFTUS
            Absinthe        54 jigger     Fr. Vermouth ...54 jigger
                          It. Vermouth       54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                LONDON
            Gin                 jigger    Absinthe         2 dashes
            Orange Bitters ...2 dashes    Sugar Syrup      2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Yz ripe olive,
twist lemon peel over and serve.


                              LONE TREE
             Gin             54 jigger     It. Vermouth    ?4 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                          LONE TREE, No. 2
             Gin             54 jigger        Vermouth     54 jigger
                          Lemon                 1 dash

 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add French hazel
nut, twist lemon peel over and serve.


                            LORD SUFFOLK
             Gin              "% jigger    It. Vermouth      1 spoon
             Cointreau         1 spoon     Maraschino        1 spoon
                           Sweet-Sour           1 spoon

 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                COCKTAILS                               105



                             LOS ANGELES
            Whisky            ^ jigger    It. Vermouth        1 dash
            Sweet-Sour        2 spoons    Egg             % of whole
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                            LOUD SPEAKER
            Cognac            y3 jigger   Gin               y jigger
            Cointreau          1 spoon    Lemon              1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                    LOUIS
            Gin               Yz jigger   Cointreau           1 dash
            Fr. Vermouth         jigger   Grand Marnier       1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.

                                    LOUISE
            Gin               54 jigger   Fr. Vermouth ....'/e jigger
            It. Vermouth      Yq jigger   Pineapple Syrup..J4 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                           LUCIEN-GAUDIN
            Gin               y jigger    Campari           Ye jigger
            Cointreau        '/e jigger   Fr. Vermouth      Ye jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                    LUIGI
            Gin               Y jigger    Fr. Vermouth ....Y jigger
            Cointreau           1 dash    Grenadine          1 spoon
                           Orange             1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                              LUPE VELEZ
            Rum               Yz jigger   Kummel            Ya jigger
            Orange            Y jigger    Pimento             1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                              MacDONALD
            Whisky or Brandy.5^2 jigger   Ginger Wine       Y jigger
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.
106               BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS



                               MA CHERIE
            Gin               Yi jigger    Cherry Brandy ...Yi jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange peel
over and serve.


                             MADAME LOU
            Fr. Vermouth      Yz jigger    Gin                     jigger
                           Pineapple Syrup       1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, dust pinch of cin
namon over and serve.


                                   MADRID
           Whisky               jigger     Bitters               2 drops
           It. Vermouth       2 spoons     Sweet-Sour            1 spoon
                           Curacoa               5 drops

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange peel
over and serve.



                               MAE WEST
            Brandy             Yt jigger   Egg               Y^ of yolk
                           Sugar             scant spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add dash of
Cayenne over top and serve.


                               MAGNOLIA
            Gin               Yi jigger      Grenadine            1 dash
            Sweet-Sour        2 dashes       Cream                1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                              MAHARAJAH
            Bacardi           14 jigger      East India Punch.     jigger
                           Lemon                  1 dash

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                           MAIDEN'S BLUSH
            Gin               Yt jigger      Grenadine           2 dashes
            Curacoa            2 dashes      Lemon                i dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                 COCKTAILS                             107



                             MAIDEN'S HAIR
           Gin                  Yz jigger   Absinthe       Vz jigger
           Grenadine             1 spoon    Sweet»Sour      1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, float 1 spoon
cognac over and serve.


                           MAIDEN'S PRAYER
            Gin                 Yi jigger   Cointreau      Ys jigger
            Lemon                1 spoon    Orange          1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                             MAIDEN'S WISH
            Gin                 Ys jigger   Kina Lillet       jigger
            Pricota             Vs jigger   Calvados       Ye jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                    MALIBU
            Cointreau           Y3 jigger   Anisette       54 jigger
                           Curacoa             Yi jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add bits of
orange, twist lemon peel over and serve.


                               MAMMY BOY
            Rum                1 jigger Bitters              1 droP
            Orange Bitters        1 dash    Sugar Syrup      1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange peel
over and serve.


                                 MANDARIN
            Qji^                ^ jigger    Fr. Vermouth      jigger
            Mandarinette         1 spoon    Curacoa        2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                             MANDARINETTE
            Mandarinette        Yi jigg"    Oxygenee       Yi jigger
                             It. Vermouth      Ys jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, float on 1 spoon
cherry brandy and serve.
108               BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS



                              MANHATTAN
            Whisky           % jigger       Orange Bitters ....2 dashes
            It. Vermouth ....Yz jigger      Bitters            2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino cherry
or pickled hazelnut and serve.

                           MANHATTAN, No. 2
            Whisky            54 jigger     Curacoa             1 dash
            It. Vermouth      54 Jigger     Bitters           .2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino cherry
or pickled hazelnut and serve.

                           MANHATTAN, No. 3
            Whisky             1 jigger     It. Vermouth      54 jigger
            Absinthe            1 dash      Curacoa           2 dashes
                           Bitters               2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino cherry,
twist lemon peel over and serve.

                           MANHATTAN, No. 4
            Whisky            Yz jigger     It. Vermouth      Y jigger
            Sugar Syrup       2 dashes      Bitters            2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino
cherry, twist lemon peel over and serve.

                       MANHATTAN, BOOTHBY
            Whisky           Yz jigger      Orange Bitters....2 dashes
            It. Vermouth ....Yi jigger      Bitters            2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino cherry,
float on 1 spoon of champagne and serve.

                           MANHATTAN, DRY
            Whisky           54 jigger      Orange Bitters....2 dashes
            Fr. Vermouth ....54 jigged"     Bitters            2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add pimola or pickled
hazelnut, twist lemon peel over and serve.


                        MANHATTAN, FRENCH
            Whisky             Y-z jigger   Fr. Vermouth      Yn jigger
            Cointreau            1 spoon    Bitters            2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino
cherry, twist lemon peel over and serve.




                                                                                 M
                                       COCKTAILS                                       109



                             MANHATTAN, MEDIUM
              Whisky           % jigger             Fr. Vermouth ....54 jigger
              It. Vermouth ....54 jigger            Curacoa          2 dashes
                                  Bitters                2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino cherry,
twist lemon peel over and serve.

                                        MANYANN
                Gin                   Yi jigger     Caperitif          Y jigger
                Curacoa               2 dashes      Lemon               1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                       MARAGATO
                Bacardi               54 jigger     Fr. Vermouth       5'^ jigger
                It. Vermouth          54 jigger     Kirschwasser          1 dash
                Orange                 1 spoon      Sweet-Sour           I spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                      MARGUERITE
                Gin                   Yz jigger     Fr. Vermouth       54 jigger
                                   Orange Bitters         1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon
peel over and serve.

                                     MARGUERITTE
                Gin                   54 jigger     Absinthe              1 dash
                Grenadine              1 spoon      Egg              54 of white
                                   Lime                 1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chUled cocktail glass and serve.


                                    MARLBOROUGH
                Sherry             ~ ■ Y igger      It. Vermout         Y igger
                                   Orange Bitters           das es
S a e     ell         it    ice strain into c illed coc tail glass t ist orange
peel over and serve

                                 MARLENE DIETRICH
                W is y                ^ igger       Curacoa               das es
                                   Bitters                   drops
Stir    ell      it        ice   strain into c illed coc tail glass             t ist lemon
and orange peel over and serve.
110               BOOTHBY'S             WORLD         DRINKS



                               MARMALADE
            Gin                 Yi jigger   Lemon              1 spoon
                             Orange Marmalade..! spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange
peel over and serve.

                                    MARNY
            Gin                 Yi jigger   Grand Marnier....;^ jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon
peel over and serve.

                                  MARTHA
            Whisky            1 jigger   Maraschino            1 spoon
                          Orange Bitters      1 dash
Stir well with ice in old-fashioned cocktail glass, add bits of fruit,
one dash of absinthe over, twist lemon peel over and serve.


                                 MARTINEZ
            Gin                 Yz jigger   Fr. Vermouth         jigger
            Orange Bitters       1 spoon    Curacoa            1 spoon
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add green olive,
twist lemon peel over and serve.


                                   MARTINI
            Gin                Y jigger     It. Vermouth ....Yz jigger
                             Orange Bitters ...2 dashes

Stir well with ice, strain into chiUed cocktail glass, add pickled onion,
twist lemon peel over and serve.


                              MARTINI, No. 2
            Gin                Yz jigger    Orange Bitters. ...2 dashes
           It. Vermouth        Yi j'gger    Bitters            2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add pickled onion,
twist lemon peel over and serve.


                              MARTINI, No. 3
           Gin                 Yz jigger    It. Vermouth ....Yi jigger
                             Orange Bitters ...2 dashes
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add pickled onion,
or pimola, twist lemon peel over and serve.
                                 COCKTAILS                                   111



                              MARTINI, DRY
            Gin                  jigger    Fr. Vermouth         jigger
                            Orange Bitters    2 dashes
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add stuffed olive, twist
lemon peel over and serve.

                        MARTINI, DRY, No. 2
            Gin                y% jigger    Fr. Vermouth ...Vi jigger
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add stuffed olive, twist
lemon peel over and serve.
                        MARTINI, DRY, No. 3
            Gin                ^ ji&gcr     Fr. Vermouth ....V5 jigger
             Curacoa           3 dashes     Orange Bitters ...2 dashes
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add pickled onion and
serve.


                        MARTINI, DRY, No. 4
            Gin                Yi jigger    Fr. Vermouth     Yz jigger
            Orange              1 spoon     Bitters           2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add pickled onion, twist
lemon peel over and serve.
                          MARTINI, MEDIUM
             Gin               5^ jigger    Fr. Vermouth        jigger
                            It. Vermouth       Ya jigger
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino cherry,
twist lemon peel over and serve.

                         MARTINI, SPECIAL
             Gin               Yi jigger    It. Vermouth     '/e jigg"
             Orange Water       1 spoon     Absinthe            1 dash
                            Bitters             2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.

                            MARTINI, SWEET
             Gin               K jigger     It. Vermouth      Y jigger
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino cherry,
twist lemon peel over and serve.
                       MARTINI, SWEET, No. 2
             Gin                Y3 jigger   It. Vermouth      Y jigger
                            Curacoa               I dash
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add pimola or
pickled hazelnut, twist lemon peel over and serve.
112               BOOTHBY^S             WORLD         DRINKS



                                 MARVEL
            Rum               ^ jigger     Grenadine         1 spoon
                           Sweet-Sour         2 spoons

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                               MARY ANN
            Dubonnet            jigger     Fr. Vermouth        jigger
                           Orange             Vi jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                               MARY JANE
            Gin                  jigger    Fr. Vermouth ....H jigger
            Dubonnet          54 jigger    Orange           I spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange peel
over and serve.

                           MARY PICKFORD
            Bacardi           I/3 jigger   Pineapple            jigger
            Grenadine           1 spoon    Maraschino          1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add bits of
pineapple and serve.
                                 MAURICE
            Gin               54 jigger    Prunella         54 jigger
            Curacoa           54 jigger    Lemon               1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                            MAURICE, No. 2
            Gin               54 jigger    Fr. Vermouth     l/g jigger
            It. Vermouth      '/e jigger   Absinthe            1 dash
                           Orange               1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                MAX BAER
            Calvados          54 jigger    Gin              54 jigger
            Absinthe          2 dashes     Grenadine        2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                   MAXIM
            Gin                   igger
                              54 jigger    It. Vermouth
                                               V            54 jigger
                           Creme de Cocoa ....1
                                          ...   dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve
                                  COCKTAILS



                                   MAYFAIR
              Gin               }/3 jigger    Apricot Cordial ...3 dashes
              Orange            5^ jigger     Ground Cloves ....1 pinch
 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                    MAZDA
              Dubonnet          ^ jigger     Applejack           % jigger
 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                        McEVOY'S OLD FASHION
                  (Second Prize, Del Monte, Dec. 9, 1933)
              Applejack          1 jigger    Sweet-Sour           2 spoons
                             Water              Yt jigger
Stir well with ice in old-fashioned cocktail glass, add bits of fruits,
twist lemon peel over and serve with ice water chaser.


                                McLOUGHLIN
             Creme de Cognac .1 jigger       Bitters                1 dash
             Champagne          to fill      Lemon            slice of peel
Shake all, but Champagne, well with ice and strain into chilled Cham
pagne glass. Fill with chilled Champagne, decorate and serve.


                                    MECCA
             Gin                  jigger     Fr. Vermouth           jigger
             It. Vermouth         jigger     Orange               1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange peel
over and serve.


                              MEEHOULONG
                            (Fire-eating Devil)
             Sloe Gin             ji&gcr     Fr. Vermouth           jigger
             It. Vermouth      14 jigger     Orange Bitters        1 dash
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.


                                    MELBA
             Bacardi           y^ jigger     Caloric            y jigger
             Absinthe          2 dashes      Grenadine           2 dashes
                            Lemon                1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
114                  BOOTHBY'S           WORLD         DRINKS



                                      MELON
              Gin                   jigger   Maraschino        54 j'gger
                            Lemon                  1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                              MENLO CLUB
              Gin             54 jig&er      Bacardi           54 jigger
              Cointreau       54 Jigger      Sweet-Sour        54 Jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                     MENTHE
              Creme de Menthe 54 jigger      Gin               54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                            MERRY-GO-ROUND
                    (First Prize, Del Monte, Dec. 9, 1933)
              Gin              54 jigger     Fr. Vermouth      1/6 jigger
                            It. Vermouth           Yq Jigger
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add green olive,
twist lemon peel over and serve.


                             MERRY WIDOW
              Gin              54 jigger     Byrrh             54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                          MERRY WIDOW,SPECIAL
              Gin              54 jigger     Fr. Vermouth       54 jigger
              Absinthe          2 dashes      Benedictine       2 dashes
                            Bitters                 2 drops
 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon
 peel over and serve.

                                METROPOLE
              Brandy           54 jigger      Orange Bitters      1 dash
              Fr. Vermouth ....54 Jigger      Peychaud          2 dashes
                           Sugar Syrup            2 dashes
 Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
 and serve.




                                                                                 J
                                COCKTAILS                                  US



                           METROPOLITAN
             Cognac              jigger    Fr. Vermouth        jigger
             Bitters            2 drops    Sugar Syrup       2 dashes
 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
 over and serve.

                                    MIAMI
             Rum              Yi jigger    Cointreau         H jigger
                         Lemon                 1 spoon

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                              MICKEY BOY
             Gin              5^ jigger    Fr. Vermouth      54 jig&er
             Absinthe         4 49shes     Creme de Menthe ..4 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                               MIDNIGHT
            Gin              54 jigger Fr. Vermouth ....54 jigger
            It. Vermouth ....54 jigger Absinthe           1 dash
                          Orange               1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                MIKADO
            Brandy           ^ jigger Curacoa                2 dashes
            Orgeat           2 dashes Noyau                  2 dashes
                          Bitters               2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino cherry,
twist lemon peel over and serve.

                                  MILAN
            Whisky           54 jigger Rum                  54 jigger
                          Orange               1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.

                             MILLIONAIRE
            Whisky           Yi jigger     Curacoa           2 dashes
            Grenadine        Y^ jigger     Egg            Yi of white
Shake well with ice, stxEiin into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                        MILLIONAIRE, No. 2
            Gin          ■ • ..5^ jigger   Absinthe         54 jigger
            Anisette             1 dash    Egg            Y^ of white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg
over and serve.
116                BOOTHBY'S             WORLD         DRINKS



                           MILLIONAIRE, No. 3
             Rum              54 jigger      Sloe Gin         54 jigger
             Apricot Brandy ..54 jigger      Grenadine          1 dash
                            Lemon                1 spoon

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                        MILLIONAIRE, ROYAL
             Whisky                 jigger   Grenadine           jigger
             Absinthe         2 dashes       Curacoa            1 dash
                            Egg              Yi of white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                               MINNEHAHA
                            (Laughing Water)
             Gin               54 jigger     Fr. Vermouth ....54 jigger
             It. Vermouth ....54 jigger      Absinthe         2 dashes
                           Orange                1 spoon
Shake all except absinthe and strain into chilled cocktail glass. Dash ab
sinthe over and serve with cut straw.


                                       MINT
             White Wine       54 jigger      Gin              54 jigger
             Creme de Menthe ...1 spoon      Mint              2 leaves
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add sprig of
mint and serve.

                                    MIRACLE
             Brandy            54 jigger     Appiejack        54 jigger
                            It. Vermouth        54 jigger
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add green olive
and serve.

                             MIRACLE, No. 2
             Gin               54 jigger     Cointreau        54 jigger
             Kina Lillet       54 jigger     Lemon             54 jigger
                            Absinthe                1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                             MISSOURI MULE
             Gin               Yi jigger'
                                  jigger-    Cassis             1 spoon
                            Lemon                   1 spoon
                                                      spoon

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                    COCKTAILS                                117



                                     MODDER
              Gin                    jigger     Caperitil        54 jigg®r
                              Fr. Vermouth            "jigger
 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                    MODERN
              Sloe Gin              jigger      Whisky           54 jigger
              Absinthe              1 dash      Grenadine          1 dash
                              Orange Bitters           1 dash
 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                               MODERN MAID
              Whisky             54 jigger     Rum               2 dashes
              Absinthe             1 dash      Grange Bitters      1 dash
                              Sweet-Sour             2 dashes
 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve,

                                       MOLL
             Sloe Gin            54 jigger     Gin              54 jigger
             Orange Bitters         1 dash     Sweet-Sour          1 dash
 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                 MOMINETTE
             Absinthe            1 jigger      Anisette            1 dash
                              Grenadine           2 dashes

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.

                              MONKEY GLAND
             Gin                54 jigger      Absinthe         2 spoons
             Grenadine             jigger      Orange           2 spoons
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                 MON PECHE
             Curacoa         .1/5 jigger       Cognac           '/s j'gger
             Rum              i/s jigger       Whisky           1/5 jigger
                          Sugar Syrup             '/s j'gger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, garnish with
bits of fruit and serve.

                              MONTE CARLO
             Whisky            54 jigger       Benedictine      54 Jigg®''
                          Bitters                    2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon or
orange peel over and serve.
IIS                BOOTHBY'S          WORLD         DRINKS



                              MONTIGNI
            Medoc            54 jigger    Cognac             1 spoon
            Curacoa           I'spoon     Cream             54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg
over and serve.

                      MONTMARTRE, SPECIAL
            Bacardi             jigger    Cream             "% jigger
                          Grenadine            1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg
over and serve.

                              MONTREAL
            Gin             54 jigger     Whisky            54 jigger
            Grenadine       2 spoons      Lemon             2 spoons
                          Egg              54 of white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                              MOONLIGHT
            White Wine        54 jigger   Gin               54 jigger
            Grapefruit        2 spoons    Kirschwasser       2 dashes
Twist and drop lemon peel into chilled cocktail glass. Shake ingredi
ents well with ice, strain in and serve.

                              MOONSHINE
            Gin               54 jigger   Fr. Vermouth       54 jigger
            Maraschino         1 spoon    Absinthe Bitters ....1 drop
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                    MOOR
            Gin               54 jigger It. Vermouth         54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange peel
over and serve.

                                      MOOSE
            Whisky               jigger    Abricotine        3 dashes
                          Bitters                  1 dash

Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add small piece pine
apple and serve.
                                    MORNING
             Brandy           54 jigger    Fr. Vermouth ....54 jigger
             Absinthe         2 dashes     Curacoa           2 dashes
             Maraschino       2 dashes     Orange Bitters ...2 dashes

Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino cherry,
twist lemon peel over and serve.
                                  COCKTAILS                                   119



                            MORNING CALL
            Absinthe             Yi jigger   Maraschino             jieger
                           Lemon                      jigger
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                           MORNING GLORY
            Gin              5^ jigger       Grenadine            1 spoon
            Whisky              jigger       Lemon                1 spoon
                           Egg                54 of white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                            MOTHER'S MILK
            Gin                  Yi jigger   Cream               Yi jigger
                           Sugar Syrup            1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg
over and serve.

                            MOULIN ROUGE
            Apricot Brandy ...54 jigger      Orange               1 spoon
            Grenadine          1 spoon       Lemon                1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                  MOUNTAIN
            Whisky                  jigger   Fr. Vermouth         1 spoon
            It. Vermouth          1 spoon    Lemon               1 spoon
                           Egg                54 of white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg
over and serve.

                               MOVIE LOT
            Caloric           Y^ jigger Gin                     Y^ jigger
                           White Grape          54 jigger                    '' ft
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                   MULE
            Gin               Y jigger Cassis                   Y jigger
                           Lemon                54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                 MUSTAPHA
           Gin               Y jigger        Cassis              Ya jigger
           Lime Syrup         1 spoon        Egg               Y2 of white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add dash To-
basco Sauce and serve.
120               BOOTHBY'S          WORLD         DRINKS



                               MY OWN
            Gin                 jigger   Cointreau      i/a jigger
            Orange           2 spoons    Sweet-Sour       1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
(Note: For a pleasing variation in this recipe especially for ladies,
add 1 whole egg to each four cocktails.)


                              NAPOLEON
            Gin              Ya ji&gcr   Curacoa            1 dash
            Dubonnet           1 dash    Fernet             1 dash

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon
peel over and serve.

                          NARRAGANSETT
            Whisky         Y jiggsr It. Vermouth        54 jiggsr
                          Absinthe          2 spoons

Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                               NATURAL
            Bacardi            jisger    Grenadine       1 spoon
            Brandy             jigger    Orgeat          1 spoon
                          Lemon              1 spoon

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                 NAVAL
            Gin              K jigger It- Vermouth      54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                  NEVADA
            Bacardi             jigger   Bitters           2 drops
            Grapefruit       2 spoons    Sweet-Sour       1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                               NEWBURY
            Gin              54 jigger   It. Vermouth    54 jigger
            Curacoa          2 dashes    Lemon Peel         1 strip
                          Orange Peel         1 strip
Shake all well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                NEW LIFE
             Cointreau       54 jigger   Bacardi         54 jigger
             Hercules        54 jigger   Sweet-Sour       1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                 COCKTAILS                                    121



                         NEWTON'S SPECIAL
            Brandy                    jigger   Cointreau            jigger
                            Bitters                  2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                 NEW YORK
            Whisky             ^ jigger        Grenadine         2 dashes
            Sweet-Sour          1 spoon        Orange Peel         1 strip
Shake all well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                               NEW YORKER
            Whisky             Ya jigger       Claret            2 dashes
                            Sweet-Sour             2 spoons

Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, dash claret over and
serve.


                                NICK'S OWN
            Brandy                    jigger   It. Vermouth         jigger
            Absinthe              1 dash       Bitters             1 drop
Stir well -with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino cherry,
twist lemon peel over and serve.

                                 NIGHT CAP
            Brandy              Ya jigger Curacoa               54 jigger
            Anisette            54 jigger Egg                   % of yolk
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                  NINETEEN
            Fr. Vermouth        54 jigger      Gin                 1 spoon
            Kirschwasser         1 spoon       Absinthe             1 dash    ^
                            Sugar Syrup              3 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                           NINETEEN-TWENTY
            Whisky            54 jigger Fr. Vermouth              54 jigger
            It. Vermouth      54 jigger Orange Bitters              1 dash
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon
peel over and serve.
                                  NOM NON
            Whisky              54 jigger      Gi"               14 jigger
            Apricot Brandy ...1 spoon          Orange               1 spoon
            Sweet-Sour       2 spoons          Egg              54 of white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
122                BOOTHBY'S          WORLD         DRINKS



                                    NULLO                                    f
             Gin              ^ jigger     Grenadine .........1 spoon        ^
            It. Vermouth          jigger   Grapefruit        1 spoon
                           Egg             ^ of white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                  NUPTIAL
             Gin                 jigger    Kirschwasser         jigger
             Curacoa           1 spoon     Orange Syrup       1 spoon
                           Lemon                1 spoon                      ,,
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.           j.',

                             OCEAN SHORE
            Sloe Gin         ^ jigger      Orgeat             1 spoon
            Gin              ^ jigger      Lemon              5 drops
                           Egg             5^ of white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                               O'CONNOR'S
            Dubonnet          Yi jigger Sherry              Yz jigger
                           Fr. Vermouth    Yi jigg"
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange peel
over and serve.


                                 OFF SHORE
            Calvados           Yz jigger   Caloric          Y jigger
                           Bacardi            Y jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange
peel over and serve.


                               OH! HENRY
            Whisky            Y jigger     Benedictine      Y jigger
                           Ginger Ale          Yz jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                    O. K.
            Bacardi           Y jigger  Orange                1 spoon
            Gin              Ya jigger  Sweet-Sour           1 spoon
            Fr. Vermouth ....Ye jigger Egg                 Y o{ white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                               COCKTAILS                                123



                             OH! OH! MAC
            Brandy               jigger   Cointreau        54 jigger
            Kina Lillet       54 jigger   Lemon             54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                             OLD ETONIAN
            Gin               Vz jigger   Kina Lillet      Vz jigger
            Noyau             2 dashes    Orange Bitters      1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange
peel over and serve.

                            OLD FAITHFUL
            Whisky            ?4 jigger   Apricot Brandy ..54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                           OLD FASHIONED
            Whisky             1 jigger   Bitters            2 drops
            Orange Bitters ...2 dashes    Lemon              1 dash
                           Sugar              54 lump

Stir well in small bar glass with lump of ice, add twisted lemon peel and
serve with ice water chaser.

                       OLD FASHIONED, No. 2
            Whisky            1 jigger    Orange            54 sijee
            It. Vermouth     % jigger     Lemon             54 slice
            Bitters             2 drops   Sugar             54 luraP
Stir well in bar glass with lump of ice, add Maraschino cherry, add twisted
lemon peel and serve with ice water chaser.

                      OLD FASHIONED, BRANDY
            Brandy            1 jigger    Sugar             54 lump
            It. Vermouth     % jigger     Lemon             54 slice
            Bitters            2 drops    Orange            "54 slice
Stir well in bar glass with lump of ice, add Maraschino cherry, add twisted
lemon peel and serve with ice water chaser.

                       OLD FASHIONED, GIN
            Gin                1 jigger   Bitters            2 drops
            Orange Bitters .....1 dash    Sweet-Sour        1 spoon
Stir well in bar glass with lump of ice, add Maraschino cherry, add twisted
lemon peel and serve with ice water chaser.
 124                   BOOTHBY'S       WORLD         DRINKS



                        OLD FASHIONED, RUM
             Rum                1 jigger   Bitters          2 drops
             Orange Bitters....2 dashes    Sweet-Sour       1 spoon
Stir well in bar glass with lump of ice, add Maraschino cherry, add twisted
lemon peel and serve with ice water chaser.

                                    OLD PAL
             Whisky               jigger   Fr. Vermouth    ^ jigger
                            Campari            Yi jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                  OLD TOM
             Gin                1 jigger   Absinthe           1 dash
             Orange Bitters ...2 dashes    Sugar Syrup         spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.

                             OLD VERMONT
             Gin               Yz ji&ger   Maple Syrup      1 spoon
             Bitters             2 drops   Orange           1 spoon
                            Lemon              5 drops

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                 OLIVETTE
             Gin              Yz jigger    Absinthe        2 dashes
             Orange Bitters ...2 dashes    Sugar Syrup     2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add ripe olive, twist
lemon peel over and serve.

                             OLIVETTE, No. 2
             Gin                  jigger   Anisette        2 dashes
             Orange Bitters....3 dashes    Sugar Syrup     2 dashes
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add pimola, twist
lemon peel over and serve.

                                  OLYMPIC
             Gin               Yi jigger   It. Vermouth       jigger
                            Absinthe            1 dash

Stir well in bar glass without ice, add stuffed olive and serve.

                             OLYMPIC, No. 2
             Brandy           ^ jigger     Curacoa            jigger
                           Orange              Yi jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange
peel over and serve.
                                 COCKTAILS                             125



                                ONCE MORE
             Fr. Vermouth      ^ jigger     Mandarinettc   % jigger
             Kirschwasser          jigger   Bitters         2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                        ONE EXCITING NIGHT
             Gin               '/i jigger   Fr. Vermouth   H jigger
             It. Vermouth          jigger   Orange          1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into frosted cocktail glass, twist lemon
peel over and serve.

                                   ONE SPOT
             Gin                Yi jigger   Bitters         2 drops
             Absinthe          Y^ jigger    Lemon          Y2 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into'chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                            ONE-TWO-THREE
             Whisky            Yi jigg"     Cream          Y j'ggsr
             Honey               1 spoon    Nutmeg          to taste
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg over
and serve.


                                   OO-LA-LA
             Gin               Yt jigger    Orange          1 spoon
             Almond Extract        1 dash   Sweet-Sour     2 spoons
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                 OOM PAUL
             Calvados           Y2 jigger Caperitif        Yi jigger
                            Bitters              2 drops

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                      OPAL
             Gin                Y2 jigger   Cointreau       \
             Orange             Yi jigger   Sweet-Sour       1 dasn
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                              OPALESCENCE
             Gin               Y2 jigger Lemon             54 jigg"
             Cream                 1 dash   Grenadine       1 spoon
                            Mint                1 eprig
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
126                BOOTHBY'S               WORLD        DRINKS



                                 OPALESCENT
             Gin                 ^ jigger     Lemon               1 apoon
             Grenadine            1 spoon     Egg              ^ of white
                              Mint               2 leaves

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                            OPALESCENT, No. 2
             Gin .               54 jigger    Cream               1 spoon
             Grenadine            1 spoon     Lemon               1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add sprig of mint
and serve.

                                     OPENING
             Whisky              54 jigger    It. Vermouth       54 jigger
                              Grenadine           54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino
cherry and serve.
                                       OPERA
             Gin                 54 jigger    Dubonnet             1 spoon
                              Maraschino            1 spoon

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange
peel over and serve.

                              ORANGE BLOOM
             Gin                 V% jigger    Cointreau            jigger
             It. Vermouth        Yn jigger    Orange Peel         2 strips
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                            ORANGE BLOSSOM
             Gin                 Vi jigger    Orange             Yi jigger
                              Nutmeg                to taste

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg over
and serve.

                      ORANGE BLOSSOM, No. 2
             Gin                 Yi jigger    Orange                jigger
             Orange Bitters          1 dash   Grenadine            i dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                   ORANGE BLOSSOM, SILVER
             Gin                 Yi jigger    Egg              ^ of white
             Orange Juice        Yt jigger    Nutmeg              to taste
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg over
and serve.
                                    COCKTAILS                                127



                                       ORGEAT
                Gin               Vi jigger     Orgeat          34 jigger
                               Orange               1 spoon
    Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                 ORGEAT, No. 2
                Whisky            Ya, jigger    Bitters           1 dash
                Orgeat              1 spoon     Sweet-Sour       1 spoon
    Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve with ice
    water chaser,

                                 ORGEAT, No. 3
                Brandy             Ya, jigger   Bitters           1 dash
                Orgeat              1 spoon     Sweet-Sour       1 spoon
    Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve with ice
    water chaser.

                                    ORIENTAL
                Whisky            Yi jigger     It. Vermouth    54 jigger
                Curacoa           54 jigger     Sweet-Sour        1 spoon
    Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                     ORONOFF
                Gin               54 jigger     Kirschwasser    54 jigger
                               Prunella            J/e jigger
    Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange
    peel over and serve.

                                 OTIS SKINNER
                Rum               54 jigger Sauteme             '/e jigger
                Orange            Va jigg" Lemon                  1 spoon
^               Maple Syrup         1 spoon     Mint             2 leaves          I I

    Shake all well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                    OXYGENEE
                Fr. Vermouth      54 jigger     Mandarinette    54 jigg"
                               Oxygenee           54 jigg®**
    Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                      PACIFIC
                Gin               54 jigger     Cherry Brandy   54 jigger
                               Cointreau           54 jigger

    Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
128                BOOTHBY'S           WORLD           DRINKS



                                    PALACE
             Gin               % jigger     Pineapple Syrup ...1 spoon
             Orange            % jigger     Egg             Yi o£ white
                            Nutmeg             to taste
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg over
and serve.


                                 PALISADES
             Gin                14 jigger   Cider                jigger
                            Bitters              2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                               PALL MALL
             Whisky               jigger    Grenadine        Y3 jigger
             Applejack         2 dashes     Orange              1 spoon
                            Lemon               1 spoon

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                         PALL MALL, SPECIAL
             Gin                   jigger  Fr. Vermouth     Y^ jigger
             It. Vermouth       Ya jigg®^  Creme de Menthe ..1 spoon
                            Orange Bitters       1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                         PALM BEACH SPECIAL
             Gin               Yi jigger    It. Vermouth      Yb jigger
                            Grapefruit         Ye jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.                ^ J

                                    PALMER
             Whisky             54 jigg®^    Bitters             1 dash
                            Lemon                 1 dash

Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon
peel over and serve.


                                 PALMETTO
             Rum                Yz jigg®r       Vermouth ,,..Yz jigg®r
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange peel over
and serve.
                                   COCKTAILS                                    129



                                       PALMS
              Gin               Yz jigger       It. Vermouth       '/g jigger
              Fr. Vermouth ....'/e jigger       Curacoa               1 dash
                            Egg                  54 oi white
  Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                              PALM SPRINGS
              Fr. Vermouth            jigger    Maraschino         5^ jigger
              Creme de Cocoa .        jigger    Orange Bitters        1 dash
                            Bitters                 2 drops
 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                      PANAMA
              Brandy           54 jigger        Creme de Cocoa ..54 jigger
                            Cream                  54 jigger
 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg
 over and serve.



                                       PANSY
             Absinthe            54 jigger     Grenadine            1 spoon
                            Bitters                  1 dash

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                            PANSY BLOSSOM
             Anisette            54 jigger     Grenadine            1 spoon
                            Bitters                  1 dash

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                               PANTOMIME
             Fr. Vermouth      ^ jigger        Orgeat                1 dash
             Grenadine          1 dash         Egg               % of white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg
over and serve.


                                  PARADISE
            Gin                54; jigger      Apricot Brandy ..54 jigger
                            Orange
                                 ge               54 jigger
                                                     ji
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
130               BOOTHBY'S             WORLD          DRINKS



                                      PARIS
            Gin                     jigger   Cherry Cordial      jigger
            Grand Marnier           jigger   Lemon            54 jigger

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                 PARISIAN
            Gin                54 jigger   Fr. Vermouth       54 jigger
                            Creme de Cassis ..54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                        PARISIAN BLONDE
            Rum                Yi jigger     Curacoa          Yi jigger
                            Cream               Ys jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg
over and serve.


                                PARIS-MIDI
            Cognac            .Y2 jigger     Medoc            54 jigger
                            Orange              Yn jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, float 1 spoon of
Champagne over and serve.

                                    PAT BRA
            Gin              54 jigger       Maraschino         1 dash
            It. Vermouth ....54 jigger       Lime             Yi spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                              PAT'S SPECIAL
            Gin                54 jigger     Sherry           54 jigger
            Quinquina          54 jigger     Abricotine          1 dash
                            Creme de Cassis        1 dash

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino
cherry, twist orange peel over and serve.


                                    PAULINE
            Rum                ?4 jigger      Sweet-Sour        1 spoon
                            Absinthe Bitters ....2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg
over and serve.
                                 COCKTAILS                                   131



                                       PEACH
             Peach Brandy             jigger   Fr, Vermouth     ^ jigger
                             Grenadine            2 dashes

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                       PEGGY
             Gin                5^$ jigger     Fr. Vermouth .....54 jigger
             Dubonnet                 1 dash   Absinthe             1 dash

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                 PEGU CLUB
             Gin                ^ jigger       Curacoa           54 j'gger
             Lemon              1 spoon        Orange_Bittcrs      1 dash
                            Bitters                2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                 PENDENNIS
             Gin               54 jigger       Apricot Brandy ..54 jigger
                            Fr. Vermouth ....54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                        PEPA
             Vodka              54 jigger      Fr. Vermouth      54 jigger
             Cognac             54 jigger      Cointreau          1 spoon
                            Bitters                2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon
peel over and serve.

                                      PERFECT
             Gin               54 jigger       Fr. Vermouth ....54 jigger
                            It. Vermouth ....54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange peel over
and serve.


                            PERFECT, ROYAL
             Gin              54 jigger   Fr. Vermouth ....54 jigger
             It. Vermouth ....54 jigger . Absinthe         2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add green cherry and
serve.
132                BOOTHBY'S             WORLD          DRINKS



                                 PERFECTION
            Gin                 Yi jigger     It. Vermouth ....Vs jigger
                             Orange              2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                   PERFECTO
            Whisky           5^ jigger        It. Vermouth ....'/e jigger
            Fr. Vermouth ....Yz jigger        Orange Bitters      1 dash
                             Bitters               1 drop
Stir well in bar glass with lump of ice, add twisted lemon peel and serve
with ice water chaser.

                                       PERIDOT
            Gin               jigger          Cream                jigger
            Creme de Menthe ^ jigger          Mint                 1 leaf
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                               PERSONALITY
             Gin                -.5^ jigger   Calvados          54 jigger
             Hercules            54 jigger    Bitters             2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                  PERUVIAN
             Pisco Punch         54 jigger    Brandy            % jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon
peel over and serve.

                                         PET
            Bacardi              Yz jigger    Cointreau          1 spoon
            Rum                   1 spoon     Grenadine         2 dashes
                             Lemon               2 dashes

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                  PETER PAN
             Gin                 54 jigger    Fr. Vermouth      54 jigger
             Peach Bitters       54 jigger    Orange            54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                PETIT PAIEN
             Creme de Cocoa ..54 jigger       Cream             54 jigger
             Gin               2 spoons       Curacoa             1 spoon
                             Cognac               1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, float 1 drop
vanilla extract over, grate nutmeg over and serve.
            I.'




                                 COCKTAILS                                   133



                                      PETO
            Gin                5^ jigger    Fr. Vermouth          1 spoon
            It. Vermouth        1 spoon     Orange                1 spoon
                           Maraschino          2 dashes

 Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                 PHILOMEL
            Sherry            % jigger     Quinquina             Yq jigger
            Rum                 1 spoon    Orange               Yq jigger
                           Black Pepper         1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                     PHOEBE
            Brandy            Yz jigger    Dubonnet             Yz jigger
                           Absinthe               1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                     PICCAD
            Gin                Yz jigger   Caperitif            Y jigger
                           Bitters                2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail gla^ and serve.


                               PICCADILLY
            Gin               Y jigger     Fr. Vermouth         Y Jigger
            Grenadine            1 dash    Absinthe               1 dash

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                PICKFAIR
           Brandy             Y jigger     Kola                 Y jigger
                              Lemon Syrup ...Y jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                                            I


                           PICKFAIR, No. 2
           Bacardi            ^ jigger     Pineapple              jigger
           Grenadine           1 spoon     Maraschino           2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                     PICON
           Amer Picon         Y jigger     It. Vermouth         Y jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
      134               BOOTHBY'S          WORLD          DRINKS



                                     PINEAPPLE
                  Gin               Yi jigger   Grenadine          54 jigger
                                 Pineapple         54 jigger
      Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                               PINEAPPLE BLOSSOM
                  Whisky           ^ jigger     Pineapple Syrup       jigger
                                 Lemon              1 spoon

      Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                     PING-PONG
                   Sloe Gin          ^ jigger   Fr. Vermouth          jigger
                                 It. Vermouth      54 jigger
      Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add pickled onion, twist
      lemon peel over and serve.

                                 PING PONG, No. 2
                   Sloe Gin         54 jigger   Creme Yvette       54 jigger
                                 Lemon              1 spoon

      Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                 PING PONG, No. 3
                   Sloe Gin         54 jigger   It. Vermouth        54 jigger
                   Curacoa          2 dashes    Bitters              2 drops
      Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino
      cherry, twist lemon peel over and serve.

                                     PINK BABY
                   Gin              54 jigger   Grenadine           54 jigger
                   Lemon Syrup      54 jigger   Egg               54 of white
      Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg
      over and serve.

                                   PINK GARTER
                   Gin              54 jigger   Lemon               1 spoon
                   Grenadine        54 jigger   Orange              1 spoon
      Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                     PINK LADY
                   Gin             ^ jigger     Raspberry Syrup ...1 spoon
                   Fr. Vermouth ....1 spoon     Bitters            2 drops
                                 Lime                1 spoon
      Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.




!L_
                                 COCKTAILS                                  135



                            PINK LADY, No. 2
             Gin               ^ jigger    Lemon                 1 spoon
             Grenadine         54 jigger   Egg               54 of white
             Orange             1 spoon    Sugar Syrup          2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                            PINK LADY, No. 3
             Applejack         54 jigger   Grenadine            1 spoon
             Gin               54 jigger   Lime                 1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                            PINK LADY, No. 4
             Gin                  jigger   Cream                1 spoon
             Grenadine         54 jigger   Orange               1 spoon
                             Nutmeg              Tto taste
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, gprate nutmeg over
and serve.

                                      PIRATE
             Rum              54 jigger    Cognac              54 jigger
             Raspberry Syrup..J/g jigger   Lemon               '/g jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                 PLANTER'S
             Rum               54 jigger   Orange              54 jigger
                            Lemon                  1 dash

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                            PLANTER'S, No. 2
             Rum               54 jigger   Sweet-Sour          54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                  PLATOON
             It. Vermouth      54 jigger   Gin                 54 jigger
                            Curacoa           2 dashes

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                      PLAZA
             Gin              54 jigger    It. Vermouth      54 jigger
             Fr. Vermouth ....54 jigger    Pineapple Syrup ....1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
136                 BOOTHBY'S         WORLD        DRINKS



                               PLYMOUTH
            Gin                1 jigger   Orange Bitters     1 dash
Stir in bar glass with lump of ice, add twisted lemon peel and serve with
ice water chaser.


                                  POKER
            Bacardi          5^ jigger    It. Vermouth     ^ jigger
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add pimola and


                                   POLO
            Gin               54 jigger   Fr. Vermouth     54 jigger
            It. Vermouth      54 jigger   Lemon             1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon
peel over and serve.


                              POLO, No. 2
            Gin               Yz jigger   Orange            1 spoon
            Grapefruit         1 spoon    Sugar Syrup       1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                POM POM
            Fr. Vermouth ....Yi jigger    Gin              54 jigger
                           Orange- Bitters ...2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino
cherry and serve,

                               POOH BAH
            Bacardi              jigger   Gin              14 jigger
            Caloric           Y^ jigger   Apricot Brandy     1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                              POOP DECK
            Brandy             54 jigger  Port Wine        54 jigger
                           Blackberry Brandy.54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                         POOP-POOP-A-DOOP
            Bacardi           Yi jigger   Gin                 jigger
            Caloric              jigger   Brandy              1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                  COCKTAILS                               137



                      POOR DEAR OLD THING
             Rum                 Yi jigger   Sherry              jigger
                              Lemon              1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon
peel over and serve.

                                        POPPY
             Gin                   jigger    Sherry           ^ jigger
             Orange Bitters ....2 dashes     Bitters           2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                POPPY, No. 2
             Gin                 Yi jigger   Creme de Cocoa ..Vz jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled jcocktail glass and serve.

                                        PORT
             Port Wine           ^ jigger    Brandy           2 dashes
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange
peel over and serve.

                                 PORT, No. 2
             Port Wine             jigger    Curacoa          2 dashes
             Orange Bitters        1 dash    Bitters           2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                  PORT FLIP
             Port               ^ jigger     Egg            Vz of yolk
             Sugar Syrup         1 spoon     Nutmeg           to taste
Shake well vyith ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg over
and serve.


                                      PORTO
             Port                  jigger    Brandy          54 jigger
             Sugar Syrup         I spoon     Egg           54 of white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                PORTO RICO
             Rum                54 jigger    Molasses          5 drops
                              Pimento            1 dash

Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                  BOOTHBY*S           WORLD          DRINKS



                             PRESCRIPTION
           Gin                ^ jigger     Grenadine      H jigger
           Orange Bitters       1 dash     Lemon           1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                               PRESIDENT
            Bacardi            54 jigger   Orange          1 spoon
            Grenadine            1 dash    Lemon              1 dash

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                               PRESIDENTE
            Bacardi            5^ jigger   Fr. Vermouth        jigger
            Sugar Syrup          1 dash    Bitters            1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                       PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT
            Bacardi            54 jigger   Grenadine          1 dash
                            Orange             1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                     PRESTO
            Brandy             Vz jigger   It. Vermouth    1 spoon
            Orange               1 spoon   Absinthe         1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                              PRIMA VERA
            Rum                Yz jigger   Gin            Yz jigger
            Anisette           Yi jigger   Bitters         2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                     PRIMOS
            Whisky             Ys jigger   Cognac         Ya jigger
                            Grand Marnier ....1 spoon
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                  PRINCE'S
            Gin               Yz jigger    Calvados       Y^ jigger
            Apricot Brandy ...Yi, jigger   Lemon            1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                    COCKTAILS                                139



                            PRINCESS MARY
             Gin                      jigger   Creme de Cocoa       jigger
             Cream                '/i jigger   Nutmeg             to taste
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg over
and serve.

                             PRINCESS PRIDE
             Calvados              jigger      Dubonnet         % jigger
                            Fr. Vermouth          ^ jigger
Shake well with ice, strain, into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                   PRINCETON
             Gin                  54 jigger    Port             54 jigger
                            Orange Bitters ....2 dashes
Shake gin and bitters well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass,
add Port and let settle before serving.

                             PRISE DIRECTE
             Gin                  54 jigger    It. Vermouth      54 jigger
             Calvados             [/q jigger   Anisette          2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                              PROHIBITION
             Gin                  54 jigger    Kina Lillet      54 jigger
             Orange               2 dashes     Apricot Brandy      1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.

                                   PRUNEAUX
             Gin                  1/3 jigger   Sherry            54 jigger
             Prune                2 spoons     Orange             1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                   PRUNELLA
             Brandy           ^ jigger         Horst Prune Juice 2 spoons
                            Lime                  2 spoons
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                  PRUNELLIA
             Fr. Vermouth         54.jigg®r    Prunellia        2 spoons
                            Gin                   2 spoons
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
140                BOOTHBY'S           WORLD        DRINKS



                                 PURITAN
             Gin               Yi jigger   Fr. Vermouth        jigger
             Chartreuse        2 spoons    Orange Bitters ...2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                   QUAKER
             Rum               Yz jigger   Brandy            Yi jigger
             Raspberry Syrup ...1 spoon    Lemon              1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                            QUARTER DECK
             Rum               Yi jigger   Sherry            Yi jigger
                           Lemon              2 dashes

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                     QUEEN
             Gin              H jigger     It. Vermouth      Yi jigger
             Fr. Vermouth ....Yi jigger    Grated Pineapple .2 spoons
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                          QUEEN ELIZABETH
             Gin              % jigger     Cointreau            jigger
             Lemon            Yi jigger    Absinthe            1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                      QUEEN ELIZABETH, No. 2
             Brandy            Yi jigger   It. Vermouth      Ya jigger
                           Curacda              1   dash

Shake weir with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                   QUEEN'S
             Gin               Ya jigger   Fr. Vermouth ....Ya jigger
             It. Vermouth ....Ya jigger    Orange              l slice
                           Pineapple           Yi slice
Bruise fruit and shake all well together, strain into chilled cocktail glass
and serve.

                             QUEEN, SILVER
             Gin              Yz jigger    It. Vermouth      Ya jigger
             Fr. Vermouth ....Ya jigger    Grated Pineapple .2 spoons
                           Egg              Ya o£ white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                COCKTAILS                                   HI



                               QUELLE VIE
             Cognac           Yi jigger     Kummel             jigger
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon
peel over and serve.

                                  QUICKLY
             Brandy           Ys jigger     Anisette        Y jigger
             Curacoa           1 spoon      Bitters         2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                               QUINQUINA
             Cognac           Y jigger      Quinquina       Y jigger
             Peach Brandy ....Y jigger      Absinthe        2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                  RABOLIN
             Gin              Y jigger      It. Vermouth    Y jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange peel over
and serve.


                                     R. A. C.
             Gin              Yi jigger   Fr. Vermouth ....Y jigger
             It. Vermouth ..,,Y jigger    Grenadine         1 dash
                           Orange Bitters        1 dash
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino cherry,
twist orange peel over and serve.

                                  RAIDIME
             Gin              ^ jigger      Pernod             jigg®^
                           Campari               1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                     RAJAH
             Brandy           Y jigger      Champagne       Yt jigger
Stir well vyith ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                  RAMON
             Gin               Yi jigger    Fr. Vermouth    Ya jigger
                           Hercules             Ya jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange
peel over and serve.
142               BOOTHBY'S             WORLD        DRINKS



                                    RANETT
           Curacoa            3 spoons       Rum               3 spoons
           Sweet-Sour            2 spoons    Cream                jigger
                           Egg                ^ of white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, float 1 spoon
Champagne over, grate nutmeg over and serve.


                            RAQUET CLUB
            Gin               54 jigger   Fr- Vermouth         5^ jigger
                           Orange Bitters       1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
peel over and serve.

                             RASE-MOTTES
            Whisky            54 jigger      Kummel            54 jigger
                           Cognac              54 jigger
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.

                                 RASPBERRY
            Gin              54 jigger       It. Vermouth ... -54 jigger
            Fr. Vermouth ....54 jigger       Raspberries           three
Crush raspberries. Add other ingredients and shake well with ice. Strain
into chiUed cocktail glass and serve.


                                   RATTLER
            Gin                  54 jigger   Fr. Vermouth      54 jigger
            It. Vermouth         54 jigger   Orange            54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add pickled
onion and serve.

                             RATTLESNAKE
            Whisky               Vz jigger   Sweet-Sour         1 spoon
            Absinthe             2 dashes    Egg                of white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg
over and serve.



                                  RAY LONG
            Brandy               4 jigger    It. Vermouth
                                                 Verr          ^ jigger
            Absinthe             3 dashes    Bitters            2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                 COCKTAILS                                   143



                                 RAYMOND
             It. Vermouth      54 jigger     Orange               1 spoon
                            Orange Bitters        1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add small bits of
pineapple and serve.

                                RAZZBERRY
             Applejack         ^ jigger      Raspberry Syrup .54 jigger
                            Chartreuse          H jigger
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                 READY-GO
             Rum               % jigger      Anisette               jigger
             Cointreau         54 jigger     Pineapple            1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into "chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                      REDSKIN
             Whisky            ^ jigger      Fr. Vermouth ....54 jigger
                            Bitters              2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add pimola, twist
lemon peel over and serve.

                                      REFORM
             Sherry                 jigger   Fr. Vermouth ....54 jigger
                            Orange Bitters ...2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.

                                 RESOLUTE
             Gin               5^ jiggtr     Apricot Brandy ...54 jigger
                            Lemon               54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                             REVE D'ALSACE
             Prunella           54 jigger    Cherry Cordial... .'/e jigger
             Brandy                jigger    Benedictine          1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                              REVIGORATOR
             Gin               54 jigger     Kola               54 jigger
                            Sweet-Sour          54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
144                BOOTHBY'S          WORLD         DRINKS



                                    REVIVIA
                                                                                 I
             Gin             14 jigger    Dubonnet        14 jigger
             Absinthe         4 dashes    Lemon              1 dash

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add ripe olive
and serve.

                                      REX
             Gin            Yz jigger    It. Vermouth        jigger
                          Orange Bitters      1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                RHUBARB
             Gin             Yz jigger    Rhubarb         Yz jigger
Shake well -with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add sprig of mint
and serve.

                               RICHMOND
             Gin              Yi jigger   Kina Lillet     Yz jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange
peel over and serve.

                             RIDING CLUB
             Calisayo         1 jigger    Phosphate       2 dashes
                          Bitters              2 drops

Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                     RIOT
             Gin             Yz jigger    Sweet-Sour       2 spoons
             Whisky          Yz jigger    Egg            Yz of white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                ROB ROY
             Whisky          Yz jigger    It. Vermouth    Yz jigger
                          Bitters             2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                           ROB ROY, No. 2
             Whisky          Yz jigger    Fr. Vermouth     Yz jigger
             Curacoa          2 dashes    Bitters          2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino cherry,
twist lemon peel over and serve.
                                  COCKTAILS                                145



                               ROB ROY, DRY
             Whisky                jigger    Orange Bitters ....2 dashes
             Fr. Vermouth          jigger    Bitters            2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.

                                    ROBSON
             Rum                5^ jigger    Grenadine         ^ jigger
             Lemon               1 spoon     Orange             1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                  ROC-A-COE
             Gin                   jigger    Sherry            y jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino
cherry and serve.

                               ROLLS ROYCE
             Gin                54 jigger    It. Vermouth      54 jigger
             Fr. Vermouth       54 jigger    Benedictine       2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                      ROSE
             Gin                54 jiggerFr. Vermouth ....54 jigger
             Dubonnet ...'      54 jiggerGrenadine        3 dashes
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino cherry,
twist lemon peel over and serve.

                                 ROSE, No. 2
             Gin                54 jigger    Kirschwasser      54 jigger
                             Cherry Brandy ....54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                 ROSE, No. 3
             Kirschwasser          jigger    Fr. Vermouth      Yi jigger
                             Cherry Brandy       1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                               ROSE DU ROY
             Gin                Yz jigger    Cherry Brandy .     jigger
             Fr. Vermouth       Yi jigger    Kirschwasser      1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
146                BOOTHBY'S             WORLD        DRINKS



                                  ROSELYN
             Gin               Yi jigger     Fr. Vermouth         jigger
                            Orange Bitters         1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange peel over
and serve.

                               ROSE-MARIE
             Gin               Yi jiggsr     Fr. Vermouth       Yi jigger
             Armagnac             jigger     Cherry Brandy ... J/e jigger
                            Campari               1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                             ROSE, RIVIERA
             Fr. Vermouth      5^ jigger     Cherry Brandy      Y jigger
             Brandy            2 spoons      Kirschwasser       2 spoons
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino
cherry and serve.

                            ROSCOE TURNER
             Gin                  jigger     Lemon              H jigger
                            Maraschino           2 dashes

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                ROSINGTON
             Gin              Y jigger       It. Vermouth ....H jigger
                            Orange         3 slices peeled
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                            ROSINGTON, No. 2
             Gin               Yi jigger     It. Vermouth ... .Yi jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange peel over
and serve.

                                      ROSY
             Gin              Y2 jigger      Claret            14 jigger
                            Orange              Ya jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                  ROTOTO
             Curacoa           2 spoons      Benedictine        2 spoons
             Maraschino        2 spoons      Brandy             2 spoons
                            Vouvray              2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                 COCKTAILS                                 147



                                 ROULLETTE
            Calvados               jigger    Bacardi           54 jig&er
                             Caloric            54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                       ROYAL
            Gin                 % jigger     Dubonnet          5^ jigger
            Orange Bitters        1 dasb     Bitters            2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino cherry,
twist lemon peel over and serve.

                                ROYAL, No. 2
            Gin                 54 jigger    Fr. Vermouth ....54 jigger
            Grenadine            1 spoon     Egg           54 of white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                ROYAL, No. 3
             Gin                54 jigger   Fr. Vermouth       54 jigger
                             Cherry Brandy ....54 jigger
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                ROYAL SMILE
            Calvados            54 jigger    Gin               54 jigger
             Grenadine           54 jigger   Lemon              1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                               ROY HOWARD
            Kina Lillet         54 jigger    Brandy            54 jigger
            Orange              54 jigger    Grenadine         2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                       RUBY
            Sloe Gin         54 jigger       Cherry Cordial^.....1 dash
            It. Vermouth ....54 jigger       Orange Bitters      1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                  RUBY, No. 2
            Sloe Gin            54 jigger    It. Vermouth ....'/e jigger
            Gin           ......54 jigger    Fr. Vermouth ....Yq jigger
                             Benedictine        2 dashes

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
148                 BOOTHBY'S            WORLD          DRINKS



                                RUBY, SILVER
             Sloe Gin            5^ jigger    Cherry Cordial      1 dash
             It. Vermouth           jigger    Egg            54 of white
             Orange Bitters        1 dash     Nutmeg            to taste
Shake w^ll with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg over
and serve.

                                        RUM
             Rum                 1 jigger     Bitters               2 drops
                              Sugar Syrup            1 dash
Stir well vidth ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                   RUM, No. 2
             Kum                S/J jigger    Gin                 Yi jigger
                              Lemon                 1 dash

Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                    RUMAN
             Kum                % jigger Cointreau                % jigger
                              Lemon         1/5 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                 RUM and GIN
             Rum                 Yi jigger    Gin                 Yi jigger
                              Lemon                 1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                    RUMOLA
             iuin                Yi jigger Lemon                      jigger
                              Rumola             54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                              RUSSELL HOUSE
             Whisky                  jigger   Blackberry Brandy 2 dashes
             Sugar Syrup           1 dash     Orange Bitters         1 dash
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                     RUSSIAN
             Cognac              1 jigger     Champagne        to fill glass
                           Bitters                  1 dash
Place cognac and bitters in frosted Champagne glass, twist lemon peel
over, fill with chilled Champagne and serve.
                                   COCKTAILS                                149



                              RUSSIAN, No. 2
             Vodka             Yz jigger  Gin                   Yz jigger
                            Creme de Cocoa... Yi jisger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                               ST. GERMAIN
             Chartreuse (green)       jigger   Lemon             1 spoon
             Grapefruit           1 spoon      Egg               of white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                    ST. MARK
             Fr. Vermouth         Yz jigg"     It- Vermouth     Yi jigger
             Groseille             1 spoon     Cherry Brandy ....1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                      SALOME
             Dubonnet           Yz jigger      Gin              Y jigger
                            Fr. Vermouth          Y jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                  SANCTUARY
             Cointreau          Ya jigger      Amer Picon       Yi jigger
                            Dubonnet             Yz jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                  SAN DIEGO
             Whisky               Yz jigger    Aperitif         Yz jigger
             Curacoa              2 dashes     Bitters           2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                               SAN MARTIN
             Gin              Yi jigger        Chartreuse
             It. Vermouth ....Y jigger           (yellow)      I spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.

                               SANS FACON
             Brandy            ^ jigger        Cointreau         1 spoon
             Noyau               1 dash        Sugar Syrup       1 spoon
                            Bitters                  2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon
peel over and serve.
150               BOOTHBY'S             WORLD        DRINKS



                            SANTA BARBARA
            Whisky                  jigger   Grapefruit           jigger
            Apricot Brandy....2 dashes       Sugar Syrup        2 dashes
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                      SANTA BARBARA, No. 2
            Vodka              5^ jigger     Creme de Cocoa        jigger
                            Cream               Yn jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                 SANTIAGO
            Bacardi            Yz            Grenadine          2 dashes
                            Lemon                2 dashes

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                 SARATOGA
            Applejack        Y3 jigger       Dubonnet          Y jigger
            It. Vermouth ....Yz jigger       Orange            2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                            SARATOGA, No. 2
            Brandy              Yz jigger    Maraschino          2 dashes
                            Bitters              2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add bits of
pineapple and serve.

                            SARDI'S DELIGHT
            Gin                 Y jigger     Lemon               1 spoon
            Passion Fruit        1 spoon     Absinthe         1..2 dashes
            Grenadine           2 dashes     Bitters             2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.

                                    SATYRE
            Fr. Vermouth        Yi jigger Prunellia             3 spoons
                            Cognac               3 spoons
Shake well with ice, strain into chUled cocktail glass and serve.

                        SATAN'S WHISKERS
            Gin                2 spoons      Fr. Vermouth       2 spoons
            It. Vermouth       2 spoons      Orange             2 spoons
             Grand Marnier ....1 spoon       Orange Bitters       1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and erve.
                                COCKTAILS                                 151



                               SAUCY SUE
             Brandy           Yz jigger    Calvados           Y jigger
             Absinthe            1 dash    Apricot Brandy      1 dash
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange
peel over and serve.

                                   SAVOY
             Gin               Ys jigger   Fr. Vermouth         jigger
             Grenadine         2 dashes    Absinthe             1 dash

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.

                              SAVOY, No. 2
             Gin               Y jigger    Fr. Vermouth         jigger
                            Dubonnet          2 dashes

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange
peel over and serve.

                                   SAZERAC
             Whisky           54 jigger    Absinthe       to wet glass
         ,   Peychaud         2 dashes     Sugar Syrup        54 spoon
                            Lemon          1 slice peel
Chill cocktail glass, wet with few drops absinthe and toss out. Stir other
ingredients well with ice, strain into prepared glass and serve with ice
water chaser.

                               SCHNOZZLE
             Sherry            Yz jigger   Gin                54 jigger
             Fr. Vermouth      54 jigger   Absinthe           2 dashes
                            Curacoa            2 dashes

Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add pimento and
serve.


                                SCOFFLAW
             Whisky            54 jigger   Fr. Vermonth       54 jigger
             Grenadine           1 spoon   Lemon               1 spoon_
                            Orange Bitters       1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                   SEAGRAM
             Gin               Y% jigger   Grenadine          Ye jigger
             Seagram           Ye jigger   Lemon              Ye jigger
                             Egg            54 of white

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
152                BOOTHBY'S            WORLD         DRINKS



                             SELF STARTER
             Gin                 jigger   Kina Lillet          jigger
             Apricot Brandy....! spoon    Absinthe          2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                SENSATION
             Gin              54 jigger   Lemon               jigger
             Maraschino       3 dashes    Mint              2 sprigs
Bruise mint and shake all well with ice, strain into chiUed cocktail glass
and serve.

                          SEPTEMBER MORN
             Bacardi          34 jigger   Grenadine         1 spoon
             Lemon             l spoon    Egg             ^ of white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                          SEVENTH HEAVEN
             Gin                 jigger   Maraschino         1 spoon
                           Grapefruit         1   spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                       SEVENTH HEAVEN, No. 2
             Gin              54 jigger   Caperitif        5^ jigger
             Maraschino       2 dashes    Bitters           2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino
cherry, twist orange peel over and serve.


                                 SEVILLA
             Bacardi          5^ jigger Port Wine              jigger
                          Egg                of whole
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg
over and serve.

                            SEVILLA, No. 2
             Bacardi          Yj jigger   It. Vermouth     Yi jigger
                          Orange Peel         1 piece
Shake all well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                          SCOTTISH GUARDS
             Whisky           Y jigger    Lemon             Y^t jigger
             Orange             jigger    Grenadine          1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                  COCKTAILS                               153



                                   SHALUTA
             Gin              Vi jigger     Claret               jigger
                           Sweet-Sour                jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                SHAMROCK
             Gin               Yi jigger    Creme de Menthe..^^ jigger
             Orange            2 dashes     Lemon             2 dashes
                            Egg              Yi of white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                           SHAMROCK, No. 2
             Whisky                jigger   Fr. Vermouth        jigger
             Chartreuse (green) 3 dashes    Creme de Menthe..3 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                  SHANGHAI
             Rum               54 jigger    Lemon             54 jigger
             Anisette             1 spoon   Grenadine         2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                            SHEIK'S BREATH
             Gin              Y jigger      Caloric           Ya jigger
                           Lemon               Y^ jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.

                                     SHERRY
             Sherry            5^ jigger    Gin               54 jigger
                            Lemon              54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                              SHERRY, No.2
             Sherry            Y2 jigger    It. Vermouth         jigger
                           Bitters                2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.

                              SHERRY, No. 3
             Sherry            54 jigger    Bitters            2 drops
             Applejack         Yz jigger    Orange             1 spoon
                            Sugar Syrup         Y2 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
154                BOOTHBY'S          WORLD            DRINKS



                             SHERRY, No. 4
             Sherry             1 jigger     Absinthe Bitters....2 drops
                            Maraschino            2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                              SHERRY, No. 5
             Sherry            ^ jigger      Fr. Vermouth        1 spoon
                            Orange Bitters         2 dashes
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon
peel over and serve.

                              SHERRY FLIP
             Sherry             1 jigger     Egg                 of yolk
             Sugar Syrup        1 spoon      Nutmeg              to taste
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg over
and serve.


                             SHERRY TWIST
             Sherry               jigger     Brandy              i spoon
             Fr. Vermouth       1 spoon      Cointreau           1 spoon
             Lemon              2 dashes     Cinnamon         small piece
Shake all together, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon
peel over and serve.

                         SHERRY TWIST, No. 2
             Sherry            H jigger      Whisky                jigger
             Cointreau           1 spoon     Lemon              2 dashes
             Orange             2 dashes     Cloves                  two
                            Black Pepper          1 pinch
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                     SHIP
             Sherry            yi jigger Whisky                  l spoon
             Rum                1 spoon      Prune Syrup         1 spoon
                            Orange Bitters          1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                SHRAPNEL
             Whisky              jigger Fr. Vermouth            y^ jigger
             It. Vermouth      ^ jigger Apricot Brandy             1 dash
                            Orange             a few bits
Shake all well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                COCKTAILS                                 155



                                   SHROVE
             Sloe Gin         ^ jigger      Grenadine         3 drops
             Fr, Vermouth ....5^ jigger     Bitters           1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, g^ate nutmeg over
and serve.


                                 SIDE-CAR
             Brandy              jigger .   Cointreau           jigger
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                             SIDE-CAR, No. 2
             Brandy              jigger     Orange Bitters ...2 dashes
             Cointreau           jigger     Lemon               1 dash
Stir weU with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                             SIDE-CAR, No. 3
             Applejack           jigger     Cointreau        Vi jigger
                           Lemon               2 dashes

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                             SIDE-CAR, No. 4
             Brandy           ^ jigger      Cointreau        Yz jigger
                            Lemon              Yi jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                             SIDE-CAR, No. 5
             Bacardi          ^ jigger      Cointreau        Yz jigger          "«^t'
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                    SILVER
             Gin              Yz jigger     Fr. Vermouth ....Yz jigger
             Maraschino       3 dashes      Orange Bitters ...2 dashes
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.

                              SILVER KING
             Gin              ^ jigger      Sweet-Sour       2 spoons
             Orange Bitters....2 dashes     Egg            Yi of white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg
over and serve.
1S6                  BOOTHBY'S            WORLD           DRINKS



                               SILVER STREAK
             Gin                      jigger   Kummel                jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                 SIR KNIGHT
             Cognac              y jigger Chartreuse              y jigger
             Cointreau           y jigger Bitters                  2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.

                                SIR WALTER
             Kum                y jigger Cognac                   Ys jigger
             Curacoa             1 spoon Grenadine                 1 spoon
                              Lemon                   1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                               SIX CYLINDERS
                         .*      Ve jigger     Campari            /e jigger
             Dubonnet           J/q jigger     Fr. Vermouth      [/q jigger
             It. Vermouth        Yq jigger     Cherry Brandy... .J/e jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve,

                                   SIX-O-SIX
             ®i"^               5^ jigger Cointreau                 jigger
             Absinthe              1 dash      Cochineal            1 dash
                              Lemon                   i spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                     SIXTY DEGREES LATITUDE
                              Yz jigger        Kirschwasser      5^ jigger
             Cherry Brandy....54 jigger        Kummel             1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                   SKIPPER
                                   jigger Maraschino             54 jigger
             Grenadine           1 spoon Lemon                   2 spoons
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.

                                      SLAM
                                Vi jigger Apricot Brandy ...1 spoon
            Brandy              y^ jigger      Lime               1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                 COCKTAILS                                 157



                                 SLOE GIN
             Sloe Gin         5^ jigger     Bitters            2 drops
             It. Vermouth ....54 jigger     Sweet-Sour        2 spoons
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                             SLOE GIN, No. 2
             Sloe Gin          54 jigger    Gin               54 jigger
                            Calisaya              2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                             SLOE GIN, DRY
             Sloe Gin         54 jigger     Orange Bitters      1 dash
             Fr. Vermouth ....54 jigger     Bitters             1 drop
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                            SLOE GIN, MEDIUM
             Sloe Gin           54 jigger   Fr. Vermouth      54 jigger
                            It. Vermouth       54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.


                               SMART ALEC
             Cognac            54 jigger    Chartreuse        54 jigger
             Cointreau         ^ jigger     Orange Bitters      1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into frosted glass, add bits of pineapple
and serve.


                                    SMILER                                 ,I
             Gin               54 jigger    Fr. Vermouth       54 jigger
             It. Vermouth      54 jigger    Bitters              1 dash
                            Orange                1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                SNOWBALL
             Gin               54 jigger    Creme de Menthe. .i/e j'gg"
             Creme de Violette J/g jigger   Anisette          i/g jigger
                            Cream              '/e jigger

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg
over and serve.
158                BOOTHBY'S            WORLD        DRINKS



                              SOME MOTH
             Gin              Ys jigger      Fr. Vermouth          jigger
                            Absinthe              1 dash

Shake well, except absinthe, with ice and strain into chilled cocktail glass.
Add pickled onion, dash absinthe over and serve.



             Bacardi
                                    SONORA
                                 jigger
             Apricot Brandy....2 dashes
                                             Calvados
                                             Lemon
                                                                y jigger

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                                                  1 dash
                                                                                I
                                     SONZA
             Gin                    jigger   Cherry Brandy.        jigger
             Grenadine          1 spoon      Lemon               1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                       SO so
             Gin               Yi jigger     It. Vermouth       Y jigger
             Calvados           1 spoon      Grenadine           1 spoon
                            Lemon                  1 dash

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                 SOUL KISS
             Fr. Vermouth     ^ jigger       It. Vermouth       Y jigger
             Dubonnet          1 spoon       Orange              1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
(Note: For another version of the above substitute whisky for It.
vermouth.)

                         SOURIRE COMMERCIAL
             Dubonnet              jigger    Gin                i/g jigger
             Cognac            i/g jigger    Cointreau            1 spoon
             Orange              1 spoon     Bitters          ...2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                SOUTHERN
             Whisky            1 jigger      Benedictine         1 dash
             Grenadine          1 dash       Lemon               1 dash
Stir well in bar glass with lump of ice, add Maraschino cherry, twist lemon
peel over and serve with spoon.
                               COCKTAILS                                 159



                              SOUTH SIDE
            Gin               ^ jigger     Sweet-Sour        2 spoons
                           Mint                2 sprigs
Shake all well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                    SOVIET
            Vodka            14 jigger     Sherry            J4 jigger
                           Fr, Vermouth ....5^ jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                 SPANISH
            It. Vermouth      1 jigger     Bitters           4 dashes
Stir well with ice. Twist 3 pieces lemon peel into chilled cocktail glass and
pour in ingredients. Twist and add another piece of lemon peel and serve.

                           SPANISH TOWN
             Rum                 jigger    Curacoa           2 dashes
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg
over and serve.

                                 SPARTAN
             Gin              ^j4 jigger
                                     Orange                  Vi jigger
                           Orgeat             2 spoons
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                    SPECIAL
             Cognac              jigger    Calvados          54 jigger
                           Absinthe                 1 dash
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.                                                          '

                                 SPENCER
             Gin              54 jigger     Apricot Brandy...54 jigger
             Orange             1 dash      Bitters           2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino
 cherry, twist orange peel over and serve.

                                SPION KOP
             Caperitif            jigger    ^r. Vermouth     Yi jigger
 Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon
 peel over and serve.
160                   BOOTHBY'S          WORLD           DRINKS



                                     SPRING
               Gin                Yi jigger     Benedictine        1 spoon
               Quinquina           1 spoon      Orange Bitters      1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add ripe olive
and serve.

                                  STANDARD
               Gin                   jigger    Fr. Vermouth ....54 jigger
               It. Vermouth      J/e jigger    Orange           2 spoons
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                    STANLEY
               Rum               54 jigger     Gin                y jigger
               Grenadine          1 spoon      Lemon              1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                       STAR
               \pplejack        54 jigger      It. Vermouth       54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                   STAR, No. 2
              Applejack          54 jigger     Fr. Vermouth ....54 jigger
              Curacoa            2 dashes      Orange Bitters ...2 dashes
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add ripe olive, twist
lemon peel over and serve.

                                  STARLIGHT
               Gin               Vz jigger     Curacoa              jigger
                              Orange Bitters      2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add pimola and
serve,


                                      STARR
              Applejack          54 jigger     Sugar Syrup       2 dashes
              It. Vermouth       54 jigger     Bitters            2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.

                                    STINGER
             Brandy             54 jigger      Peppermint        54 jigger
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.
                                                                                1
                               COCKTAILS



                              STINGER, JR.
             Brandy              jigger   Creme de Menthe      jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                           STINGER, ROYAL
             Brandy          % jigger     Peppermint        Yi jigger
                           Absinthe          2 dashes

Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                              STINGER, SR.
             Brandy            1 jigger   Creme de Menthe      jigger
Stir well in bar glass with lump of ice, twist lemon peel over, add Mara
schino cherry and serve with spoon.

                              STOLEN KISS
             Gin              5^ jigger   Absinthe          % jigger
             Sugar Syrup        1 spoon   Egg               of white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                 ST. REGIS
             Applejack        54 jigger   Grenadine          1 spoon
                           Lemon              1 spoon

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                            ST. REGIS, No. 2
             Applejack       ^ jigger     Grenadine         Ye Jigger
                           Lemon            Yq jigger

Shake well with ice, strain into chdled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.

                                 STYRRUP
             Whisky           54 jigger   Orange            54 jigger
                           Bitters             2 drops          —

Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.

                                      SUN
             Brandy           ^ jigger    Curacoa            1 spoon
             Pineapple Syrup....1 spoon   Maraschino        2 dashes
             Lemon               1 dash   Bitters            2 drops

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
162                    BOOTHBY'S         WORLD         DRINKS



                                  SUNSHINE
              Gin               1/3 jigger    Fr. Vermouth      I/3 jigger
              It. Vermouth       I/3 jigger   Orange Bitters ...2 dashes
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.

                             SUNSHINE, No. 2
              Rum               Yi jigger     Orange Wine           jigger
              Maraschino        1/q jigger    Lemon                1 dash
                             Orange Bitters         1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino
cherry and serve.

                             SUNSHINE, No. 3
              Bacardi           ^ jigger      Fr. Vermouth          jigger
              Cassis            2 dashes      Lemon               1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                   SUPERIOR
              Rum               Yi jigger     It. Vermouth       Y& j'gger
              Apricot Cordial.../e jigger     Lemon                 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                   SUPREME
              Rum               V3 jigger     Benedictine           jigger
              It. Vermouth       1 spoon      Lemon               l spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                SWAN SONG
              Brandy            Y3 jigger     Applejack          Yi jigger
              Orange            Yi jigger     Grenadine         2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                              SWAZI FREEZE
              Caperitif         Yi jigger     Whisky             Yi jigger
                             Peach Brandy           1 dash

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                              SWEET DREAM
              Gin              ■ 'Vi jigger
                                      igger   Apricot Brandy
                                              Apricot Bra;    . .Y igger
              Bacardi        ■ ■■Y igger      Pineapple Syrup
                                                        S      . . das es
S a e   ell    it   ice strain into c illed coc tail glass add olive and serve.
                                COCKTAILS                                  163



                            SWEET PATOOTIE
            Gin                 yi jigger   Cointreau         i/g jigger
            Orange             J/6 jigger   Lemon               1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                SYLVIA DEE
             Cognac             yi jigger   Dubonnet          yi jigger
                            Absinthe                1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.

                                      TAHOE
            Bacardi            ^ jigger     Lime               1 spoon
                            Sugar Syrup           1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                 TAMMANY
            Gin                14 jigger    Fr. Vermouth ....'A jiggsr
            It. Vermouth          jigger    Absinthe           1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                      TAMPA
            Rum                Yi jigger    Gin                  jigger
                            Lemon                 1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                              TANGLEFOOT
             Caioric            A jigger    Bacardi           Ys jigger
             Orange              1 spoon    Lemon              1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                      TANGO
             Gin               A jigger     Orange           ..,,1 spoon
             Fr. Vermouth       1 spoon     It. Vermouth         1 spoon
                            Curacoa               2 dashes

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                TANTALUS
            Brandy             -Yi jigger  Lemon              Yi jigger
                            Forbidden Fruit..    jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
164                 BOOTHBY'S       WORLD           DRINKS



                               TEMBLOR
            Whisky          I/3 jigger   Gin               14 jigger
                         Absinthe              14 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.

                            TEMPTATION
            Whisky              jigger   Absinthe            2 dashes
            Curacoa          2 dashes    Dubonnet            2 dashes
                         Sugar Syrup           2 dashes
Stir well in bar glass with lump o£ ice, twist orange and lemon peel
over and serve with ice water chaser.


                               TEMPTER
            Port Wine        % jigger    Apricot Brandy...      jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                              TENNESSEE
            Whisky           5^ jigger   Maraschino          Yz jigger
                          Lemon                Vz jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino
cherry and serve.

                              TEN-STRIKE
            Absinthe            jigger   Gin                 54 jigger
            Orange Bitters     1 dash    Bitters              2 drops
                          Sugar Syrup          1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                  TEUTON
            Gin              Yz jigger   Kummel              Yi jigger
                          Fr. Vermouth         2 dashes

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                              THE GREAT
            Gin              Y jigger    Creme de Cocoa ..Yz jigger
                          Cream                Yz jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                              THE HAGUE
            Whisky           % jigger    Chartreuse          Yz jigger
                          Fr. Vermouth          1 spoon

Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino
cherry and serve.
                                 COCKTAILS                                 16S



                                THE HARRIS
             Gin                54 jigger     Fr. Vermouth    54 jigger
                             Absinthe               1 dash

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                      THE KISS
             Dubonnet                jigger   Gin             55 jigger
             It. Vermouth            1 dash   Maraschino       2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add French hazel
nut and serve.


                              THIRD DEGREE
             Gin                % jigger      Fr. Vermouth    54 jigger
             Absinthe                1 dash   Bitters          2 drops
                            Orange                1 spoon
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.

                                 THIRD RAIL
             Fr. Vermouth       54 jigger     Curacoa           1 dash
                             Creme de Menthe.k..! dash

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                            THIRD RAIL, No. 2
             Cognac             55 jigger     Calvados        55 jigger
             Bacardi            55 jigger     Absinthe          1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                   THISTLE
             Whisky            55 jigger It. Vermouth         55 jigger
                             Orange Bitters ....2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.

                             THREE MILLERS
             Brandy            55 jigger      Bacardi         55 jigger
             Grenadine          1 spoon       Lemon            2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                             THREE STRIPES
             Gin                55 jigger     Fr. Vermouth    55 jigger
                            Orange               thin slice
Shake all well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                   BOOTHBY'S               WORLD           DRINKS



                                       THUNDER
             Brandy               ^ jigger      Sugar Syrup        1 spoon
             Egg            ;          1 yolk   Cayenne             1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                THUNDER CLAP
             Brandy            Yz jigger        Gin               yi jigger
                            Whisky                    Y^ jigger
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                 TIGER'S MILK
             Cognac               Y^ jigger     Sloe Gin          Yi jigger
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve,

                                        TINTON
             Calvados             Yi jigger     Port Wine         Yi jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                   TIPPERARY
             Gin                     jigger     It. Vermouth         jigger
             Grenadine             1 spoon      Orange             1 spoon
                                Mint                  2 sprigs
Bruise mint and shake all well with ice. Strain into chilled cocktail glass
and serve.

                            TIPPERARY, No. 2
             Gin                  Yt, jigger    Fr. Vermouth    14 jigger
             It. Vermouth         54 jigger     Creme de Menthe..2 dashes
                            Orange                     1 spoon

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                            TIPPERARY, No. 3
             Whisky             Yi jigger       It. Vermouth      Yi jigger
                            Chartreuse              Yi jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                       TIP-TOES
             Whisky               Yi jigger     G'"               Yi jigger
             It. Vermouth         14 jigger     Kirschwasser      l/g jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                         COCKTAILS                                     167



                                              TITO
                    Izarra           i/e jigger     Armagnac              '/g jigger
                    Creme de Menthe..J/g jigger     Cream                     jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg
over and serve.


                                             T. N. T.
                    Whisky              5^ jigger   Absinthe              Yz jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve,


                                            TOPPER
                    Cognac           Vz 'jigger     Creme de Menthe Yz jigger
                    Apricot Brandy .,Yz jigger      Absinthe           1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                          TORONTO
                    Whisky              Vi jigger   Fernet                Vi jigger
                    Sugar Syrup         2 dashes    Bitters                2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange peel over
and serve.


                                          TORPEDO
                    Calvados            Vx jigger   Brandy                   jigger
                                  Gin                     1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon
peel over and serve.

                                           TRAILER
                    Brandy           Yz jigger      Cointreau             Yi j'ggar
                                  Lemon                Yi jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                        TRANSVAAL
                    Caperitif           Yi jigger   Gin             '■ ■ . .Yi igger
                                  Orange Bitters           das es
S a e         ell     it   ice strain into c illed coc tail glass and serve.


                                            TRILBY
                    W is y .'.       Yi igger       Orange Bitters . ..     das es
                    Calisaya         Yi igger       P osp ate               das es
Stir    ell     it ice strain into c illed coc tail glass and serve.
168                BOOTHBY'S           WORLD        DRINKS



                              TRILBY, No. 2
             Whisky           54 ji&ger   It. Vermouth        54 jigger
             Parfait Amour....54 jigger   Absinthe            2 dashes
                           Orange Bitters       1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                  TRINITY
             Gin              54 jigger    It. Vermouth       54 jigger
             Fr. Vermouth        jigger    Lemon               3 drops
Shake well tvith ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add stuffed olive and
serve.



                               TROCADERO
             Fr. Vermouth ....54 jigger    It. Vermouth       54 jigger
             Grenadine          1 dash     Orange Bitters       1 dash
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.

                  TROIS JEUNES FILLES NUES
             Armagnac          Yi jigger   It. Vermouth          jigger
             Fr. Vermouth     •/© jigger   Medoc              Yq jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon
peel over and serve.

                                TROPICAL
             Brandy           Yi jigger    Creme de Vanille      jigger
                            Pimento             1   dash

Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.

                            TROPICAL, No. 2
             Fr. Vermouth     Yc, jigger Maraschino           54 jigger
             Creme de Cocoa... jigger    Bitters               2 drops
                          Orange Bitters       1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                      TULIP
             Calvados         Yi j'gg"        Vermouth        Yi jigger
             Apricot Brandy....! spoon     Sweet-Sour          1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                  TUNNEL
             Gin               3 spoons    Fr. Vermouth       3 spoons
             It. Vermouth      2 spoons    Campari            2 spoons
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon
peel over and serve.
                                COCKTAILS                                   169



                                      TUNNEY
             Gin                Yi jigger    Fr. Vermouth         jigger
             Lemon               1 spoon     Orange              1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                       TURF
             Gin               Vz jigger     Fr. Vermouth ....H jigg®*"
             Absinthe          2 dashes      Maraschino         2 dashes
                            Orange Bitters ...2 dashes
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add pimola and serve.


                                 TURF, No. 2
             Gin                    jigger   Orange Bitters ...2 dashes
                            Bitters              2 drops

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                      TUXEDO
             Gin             Vi jiggar       Maraschino         2 dashes
             Fr. Vermouth ....Yi jigger      Peychaud             1 dash
             Oxygennee        2 dashes       Bitters            2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                              TUXEDO, No. 2
             Gin               Yi jiggat     Peychaud           2 dashes
             Fr. Vermouth ... .'/i jigger    Maraschino         2 dashes
                            Bitters               2 drops

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled and frosted cocktail glass and serve.

                              TUXEDO, No. 3
             Gin                Y jigger     Fr. Vermouth ...     jigger
             Maraschino         3 dashes     Orange Bitters ....2 dashes
                            Absinthe              1 dash

Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.


                        TWENTIETH CENTURY
             Gin                Y jigger     Creme de Cocoa..      jigger
                            Cream               Y jigger

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg
over and serve.
170                   BOOTHBY'S          WORLD         DRINKS



                                      TWIN SIX
               Gin               % jigger    It. Vermouth     '/© jigger
               Grenadine          1 dash     Orange             1 spoon
                              Egg                of white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                      ULANDA
               Gin               % jigger    Cointreau        ^ jigger
                              Absinthe             1   dash

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                       UN CHIEN QUI RAPPORTE
               Kirschwasser      ^ jigger    Peppermint       3 dashes
               Cointreau          3 dashes   Sugar Syrup        1 dash
                              Orange           Vz of slice
Shake all well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                      UNE IDEE
               Gin               Yn jigger   Cognac              jigger
               It. Vermouth      Yn jigger   Apricot Brandy    1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon
peel over and serve.


                                     UPISSIPPI                                   {
                                    (UP&CP)
               Gin              Yt jigger    It. Vermouth       1 dash
               Fr. Vermouth ....Yi jigger    Pomeranzen         1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.


                                    UP-TO-DATE
               Whisky           Yi jigger    Sherry           Yi jigger
               Grand Marnier....2 dashes     Bitters           2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon
peel over and serve.


                                    VALENCIA
               Apricot Brandy. ..^
                                 ■a  igger
                                     igger   Orange
                                             Orange           ^ igger
                              Orange
                                  ge Bitters      das es
                                                  d
S a e    ell     it   ice strain into c illed coc tail glass and serve.
                              COCKTAILS                                    171



                                   VAMPIRE
             Gin              1/2 jigger     Fr. Vermouth        jigger
                           Lime                  5 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                              VANCOUVER
             Gin             Yi jigger       It. Vermouth        jigger
             Benedictine       1 spoon       Orange Bitters ...2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add pimola and serve.

                              VANDERBILT
             Brandy             jigger       Cherry Brandy ...Y jigger
             Sugar Syrup      2 dashes       Bitters           2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino cherry,
twist lemon peel over and serve.


                               VAN DUSEN
             Gin              Yi jigger      Fr. Vermouth     Yz jigger
                           Grand   Marnier      2 dashes

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                             VAN GORDER
             Sloe Gin         Y3 jigger      Curacoa          Yi jigger
                           Absinthe                1 dash

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                  VEL D'HIV
             Cognac          % jigger        Benedictine      '/s jigger
             Lemon           '/s jigger      Bitters            2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                   VELOCITY
             Gin              Yi jigger      It. Vermouth     Yi jiggrt
                           Orange                  1-slice
Bruise fruit and shake all well with ice. Strain into chilled cocktail glass
and serve.



                                   VELVET
             Gin '             Ys jigger     Dubonnet         Yz jigger
                           Mandarinette         l/s jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
172                  BOOTHBY'S         WORLD          DRINKS



                                 VENDOME
            Dubonnet          Yz jigger    Gin               Yz jigger
                           Fr. Vermouth          Yi jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon
peel over and serve.

                                 VERMONT
            Gin                2 spoons    Benedictine       2 spoons
            Applejack          2 spoons    Apricot Brandy....2 spoons
                           Maple Syrup           2 spoons
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                VERMOUTH
            It. Vermouth         jigger    Bitters            2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add pickled onion, or
pimola, and serve.

                           VERMOUTH, No. 2
            Fr. Vermouth .,..Yz jigg®r     Absinthe            1 dash
                           Bitters                2 drops
Shake well, except absinthe, with ice and strain into chilled cocktail glass.
Dash absinthe over top, twist lemon peel over and serve.

                           VERMOUTH, No. 3
            Fr. Vermouth ,...54 jigger     Orange Bitters....2 dashes
            It. Vermouth       Yt jigger   Bitters            2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino cherry,
twist lemon peel over and serve.

                           VERMOUTH, No. 4
            Fr. Vermouth       1 jigger    Maraschino         2 drops
                           Absinthe Bitters     2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.

                           VERMOUTH, DRY
            Fr. Vermouth ....Yz jigger     Curacoa           2 dashes
            Gin               Yi jigger    Bitters            2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino cherry,
twist lemon peel over and serve.

                                     VESPER
            Gin               Y jigger     Noyau             Ya jigger
            Orange             1 spoon     Bitters            2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                COCKTAILS                                    173



                                     VICTOR
             It. Vermouth      ^ jigger      Gin                   jiggtt
                            Brandy                 H j'gget
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                    VIE ROSE
             Gin               Ys jigger     Kirschwasser       Y jig&er
             Grenadine          1 spoon      Lemon               1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                     VIRGIN
             Gin               Yi jigger     It. Vermouth       Yi jigger
                            Orange Bitters          1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.

                               VIRGIN, No. 2
             Gin               Yi jigger     Creme de Menthe..     jigger
                            Forbidden Fruit....      jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                     VOLGA
             Gin               Ys jigger     Horst Prune Juice 2 spoons
                            Lemon                  1 spoon

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                    WAGNER
             Sloe Gin          H jigger      Cherry Brandy ..      jigger
             It. Vermouth      54 jigger     Orange Bitters       1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                    WALDORF
             Caloric           54 jigger     Gin                54 jigger
                            Lemon                   1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                 WAR DAYS
             Calvados               jigger   Gin                Ya j'gg®''
             It. Vermouth       Y^ jigger    Chartreuse          1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                              WARD EIGHT
             Whisky           Yi jigger      Lemon                 jigger
             Orange           54 jigger      Grenadine           1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
174                  BOOTHBY'S          WORLD          DRINKS



                                   WARDEN
             Gin                   jigger   Fr. Vermouth      ;4 j'gger
                             Hercules           54 j'gger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve

                               WASHINGTON
             Fr. Vermouth       ^ jigger    Cognac            2 dashes
             Sugar Syrup        2 dashes    Bitters            2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                 WAVERLEY
             Gin                54 jigger   Cassis            2 spoons
                             Orange            2 spoons
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add segments of
pineapple and serve.

                                      WAX
            Gin                 44 jigger   Orange Bitters ...3 dashes
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino cherry,
twist orange peel over and serve.


                                  WAX, No. 2
            Gin                 54 jigger   Absinthe          54 jigger
            Sugar Syrup          1 spoon    Egg             54 of white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                      WEATHER BE DAMNED
            Gin                 54 jigger   It. Vermouth      54 jigger
            Orange              54 jigger   Curacoa            1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                  WEBSTER
            Gin                 54 jigger   Fr. Vermouth      54 jigger
            Apricot Brandy        1 spoon   Lime               1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve


                            WEDDING BELLES
            Gin                 54 jigger   Dubonnet          54 jigger
            Cherry Brandy        1 spoon    Orange             1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                               C O C K T AILS                             175



                                 WEESUER
            Gin               1/6 jigger   Curacoa          '/e jigger
            Fr, Vermouth      '/e jigger   It. Vermouth      J/e jigger
                           Absinthe             1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                    WEILUC
            Gin               Yi jigger    It. Vermouth     5^ jigger
                           Maraschino           1   dash

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve


                              WEISMULLER
            Bacardi           Y jigger     Gin              54 jigger
            Sweet-Sour        Y jigger     Grenadine         1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                WELCOME
           Cognac             J/e jigger   Caloric          i/g jigger
           Gin                1/6 jigger   Grenadine        /e jigger
           Lemon                1 spoon    Orange             1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                WEMBLEY
           Gin                Yi jigger    Fr. Vermouth     14 jigger
           Calvados           2 dashes     Apricot Brandy      1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                           WEMBLEY, No. 2
           Whisky              Yi jigger  Fr. Vermouth      Yz jigger
                           Pineapple Syrup.... jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                              WESTBROOK
            Gin               Yz jigger    It.- Vermouth    Y^, jigger
                           Whisky               1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve

                            WESTERN ROSE
           Gin               Y2 jigger     Fr. Vermouth     14 jigger
           Apricot Brandy....Yn jigger     Sweet-Sour       2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
176               BOOTHBY'S            WORLD         DRINKS



                            WEST INDIAN
           Gin               5^ jigger     Bitters          4 drops
                          Sweet-Sour            1 spoon
Stir well in bar glass with lump of ice, add bits of fruit, twist lemon
peel over and serve with ice water chaser.


                            WESTMINSTER
           Whisky               jigger     Fr. Vermouth       jigger
                          It. Vermouth           jigger
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.


                             WHICH WAY
            Brandy            yi jigger    Absinthe        yi jigger
                          Anisette             Vt jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                     WHIP
           Cognac             y-i jigger   Fr. Vermouth    [/g jigger
           It. Vermouth       i/s jigger   Curacoa          2 dashes
                          Absinthe               1 dash

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                  WHISKY
           Whisky            1 jigger      Bitters          2 drops
           Orange Bitters ...2 dashes      Sugar Syrup        spoon
Stir well in bar glass with ice, add twisted lemon peel and Maraschino
cherry. Serve with spoon and ice water chaser.


                            WHISKY, No. 2
           Whisky            1 jigger      Bitters          2 drops
                      Sugar Syrup                1 dash
Stir well in bar glass with ice, add twisted lemon peel and Maraschino
cherry. Serve with spoon and ice water chaser.


                            WHISKY, No. 3
            Whisky             1 jigger    Curacoa          2 dashes
                          Bitters              2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.
                                                                           i
                                                                                1
                                COCKTAILS                                 177



                            WHISKY BLOSSOM
             Whisky            Yi jigger   Pineapple             1 dash
             It. Vermouth         jigger   Lemon                 1 dash
Stir well with ice, strain into frosted cocktail glass and serve.

                            WHISKY, FANCY
             Whisky             1 jigger   Orange Bitters        1 dash
             Maraschino        2 dashes    Rum                   1 dash

Stir well with ice, strain into frosted cocktail glass and serve.


                          WHISKY, NEW YORK
             Whisky            54 jigger   It. Vermouth      54 jigger
             Sherry            2 dashes    Orange Bitters....2 dashes
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.

                            WHISKY SPECIAL
             Whisky            ^ jigger    Fr. Vermouth      Yz jigger
                            Orange               1 spoon

Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg over
and serve.

                                  WHISPER
             Whisky            Yz jigger   Fr. Vermouth      Y
                            It, Vermouth      Yz jiggc
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.

                                     WHIST
             Calvados          Y jigger    Bacardi           J4 jigg®^
                            It. Vermouth      Ya jigg®r
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                     WHITE
             Gin                 jigger ..,Anisette          2 spoons
                            Orange Bitters ....2 dashes
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add ripe olive, twist
lemon peel over and serve.

                              WHITE BABY
             Gin               54 jigger   Cointreau         'A
                            Sweet-Sour         54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
178                  BOOTHBY'S        WORLD           DRINKS



                                WHITE CAP
             Gin               Yi jigger   Creme de Menthe...2 drops
             It. Vermouth         jigger   Bitters            X drop
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino
cherry and serve.


             Gin
                              WHITE CARGO
                               54 jigger   Ice Cream           jigger
                                                                                  1
Shake thoroughly without ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate
nutmeg over and serve.

                               WHITE LADY
             Gin               54 jigger   Cointreau        54 jigger
                            Lemon              54 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                WHITE LILY
             Bacardi           54 jigger   Cointreau        54 jigger
             Gin               54 jigger   Absinthe          2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail gla:ss and serve.

                             WHITE PELICAN
             Gin               Yi jigger   Fr. Vermouth        jigger
                            It. Vermouth      2 dashes

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add pickled hazelnut ■
and serve.

                               WHITE ROSE
             Gin               54 jigger   Anisette         54 jigger
             Cream              1 spoon    Egg               of white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                            WHITE ROSE, No. 2
             Gin               54 jigger   Maraschino         1 spoon
             Lemon               1 spoon   Orange             1 spoon
                            Egg             54 of white
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, grate nutmeg '
over and serve.


                               WHITE WING
             Gin               Yz jigger   Creme de Menthe..}^ jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                COCKTAILS                                  179



                                WHIZ BANG
             Whisky                  jigger   Fr. Vermouth        jigger
             Absinthe          2 dashes       Grenadine        2 dashes
                            Orange Bitters ....2 dashes
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.

                               WHIZ DOODLE
             Whisky               jigger      Gin              Y jigger
             Crcme de Cocoa.    ^ jigger      Cream            54 Jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                               WIDOW'S KISS
             Calvados           Y jigger      Chartreuse       54 Jigger
             Benedictine        54 Jigger     Bitters           2 drops
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                WILD ROSE
             Gin              54 Jigger       It. Vermouth     54 Jigger
             Fr. Vermouth ....54 Jigger       Orange Bitters     1 dash
                           Bitters                 1 drop
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist orange peel over
and serve.

                                WILD WEST
             East India Punch..54 jigger      Bacardi          54 Jigger
                           Lemon                   1 dash

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                               WILLIAMSON
             Bacardi           % jigger       Orange            1 spoon
                           Sweet-Sour            2 spoons
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                               WILLIE SMITH
             Brandy            % jigger       Maraschino       Y jigger
                           Lemon                 2 dashes

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                               WILL ROGERS
             Gin               5^ jigger      Fr. Vermouth     1 spoon
             Orange             1 spoon       Curacoa          1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                    BOOTHBVS              WORLD       DRINKS



                                  WINCHELL
            Cognac              Yi jigger    Gin            Yi jigger
            Cointreau             1 spoon    Lemon            1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.

                                     W. O. p.
            Gin                 Yz jigger    Claret         Yi jigger
                             Sweet-Sour         2 spoons
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                      WOW
             Cognac             54 jigger Calvados          }4 jigger
             Hercules           Ya jigger Bacardi           Ya jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                  WYOMING
            Fr. Vermouth        Yz jigger    It. Vermouth   Yz jigger
             Orange             54 jigger    Sweet-Sour     2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                   XANTHIA
             Gin                Yz jigger Chartreuse        Yz jigger
                             Cherry Brandy      Yz jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                     XERES
                                 1 jigger   Peach Bitters      1 dash
                             Orange Bitters      1 dash
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                     X. Y. z.
                                yA jigger    Fr. Vermouth   }4 jigger
                  Vermouth      Ya jigger    Sweet-Sour      2 spoons
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                               X. Y. Z., No. 2
            Bacardi             5^ jigger    Cointreau      Ya jigger
                             Lemon              Ya jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                                 COCKTAILS                                 181



                                         YALE
             Gin                ^ jigger     Orange Bitters ...2 dashes
                             Bitters              2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add twisted lemon
peel and dash of seltzer and serve.


                              YELLOW DAISY
             Gin                 Yi jigger   Fr. Vermouth        jigger
             Grand Marnier         1 spoon   Absinthe            1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                             YELLOW PARROT
             Apricot Brandy .,5^ jigger      Chartreuse       5^ jigger
             Absinthe            jigger        (Yellow)
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                            YELLOW RATTLER
             Fr. Vermouth       54 jigger    It. Vermouth     54 Jigger
             Gin                5^ jigger    Orange           5^ jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add pickled onion
and serve.


                                 YOKOHAMA
             Gin                54 jigger    Vodka             1 spoon
             Orange               1 spoon    Grenadine         1 spoon
                             Absinthe              1 dash

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                  YOLANDA                                 ,I
             It. Vermouth       5^ jigger    Gin             54 jigger
             Cognac             54 jigger    Absinthe          1 dash
                             Grenadine            1 dash

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                                        YORK
             Whisky                jigger    It. Vermouth       jigger
                             Orange Bitters ....3 dashes

Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.
182                  BOOTHBY'S         WORLD           DRINKS



                             YORK SPECIAL
             Fr. Vermouth      Yz jigger     Maraschino       ^ Jigger
                            Orange Bitters         3 dashes

Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                               YOUNG MAN
             Brandy            Yz jigger     Fr. Vermouth       jigger
             Curacoa           3 dashes      Bitters           2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino cherry
and serve.

                                   YVETTE
             Gin               5^ jigger     Creme de Yvette....! spoon
             Cream              1 spoon      Sweet-Sour        2 spoons
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                ZANZIBAR
             Fr. Vermouth      Y jigger      Gin                1 spoon
                            Sweet-Sour             Y jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel
over and serve.

                                     ZAZA
             Dubonnet             jigger     Gin                 jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                ZAZA, No.2
             Gin               Yz jigger     It. Vermouth ....Yz jigger
                            Creme de Menthe..2 dashes
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, add Maraschino
cherry and serve.

                                ZAZA, No. 3
             Dubonnet          Yz jigger     Sherry           y^ jigger
Stir well with ice, strain into chUled cocktail glass, add French hazel
nut and serve.


                                 ZAZARAC
             Whisky             Vs jigger    Bacardi            1 spoon
             Anisette            1 spoon     Sugar Syrup        1 spoon
             Absinthe           3 dashes     Bitters            2 drops
                            Orange Bitters           1 dash
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
                             COCKTAILS                                  183




                                     ZED
            Calvados              jigger   Hercules         Yi jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.

                                  ZEPHYR
           Brandy           ^ jigger       Curacoa           1 spoon
           Maraschino        2 dashes      Bitters           2 drops
           Pineapple Synip ...1 spoon      Lemon         to wet glass
Wipe inside of chilled cocktail glass with twisted lemon peel. Then wet
inside with few drops lemon and toss out. Shake other ingredients well
with ice and strain into prepared glass. Add Maraschino cherry and serve.

                                    ZERO
            Absinthe        Yz jigger      Grenadine        2 spoons
                         Orange               3 spoons
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve.
HIGHBALLS
   Highballs, together with other beverages similar in form, come second
only to cocktails in importance to the connoisseur. They are, in fact,
merely "extended" cocktails—i. e., the first half prepared in the same man
ner and the second half made up of any one of a dozen or more "fillers"
such as Ginger Ale, Seltzer, White Rock, Lime Rickey, etc., etc. This
class of beverage should be served in the Highball glass (6-ounce), Short
Highball (4-ounce) or Tall Highball (8-ounce). Each recipe will specify
the proper glass to be used.
   Highballs, even more so than Cocktails, provide the ingenious mixer
with room for imagination. Here he or she not only has a choice of the
many Liqueurs, Cordials, Bitters, etc.^ but also the further choice of a
proper filler. Many pleasant surprises are in store for the experimenter.
   As with Cocktails the publisher has endeavored to cover the entire field
so that the choice of the host shall be from the widest range of beverages,
but in all instances specifying only the filler called for in the original recipe.

                               ADDINGTON
             Fr. Vermouth ....54 jigger   It. Vermouth ,..,54 jigger
                           Plain Soda              to fill

Stir well with ice in highball glass, add soda to fill, twist orange peel
over and serve.

                                 ADMIRAL
            Whisky            54 jigger   Pineapple Syrup ...2 dashes
            Tokay             54 jigger   Lemon              2 dashes
                           Seltzer              to fill

Stir well with ice, strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice, fill with
seltzer and serve.                                                       '

                          AMERICAN GLORY
             Champagne         1 jigger   Orange             1 jigger
                           .Plain Soda          to fill
Stir gently in highball glass with ice, fill with soda and serve with straws.

                              AMER PICON
            Amer Picon         i jigger   Grenadine          54 jigger
                           Seltzer              to fill

Stir well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice, fill with
seltzer and serve with straws.
                                                                               1
186                   BOOTHBY'S          WORLD          DRINKS


                                 APPLEJACK
             Applejack          ^ jigger     Sweet-Sour        2 spoons
             Brandy             1   spoon    Seltzer             to fill
Shake well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice, seltzer
to fill and serve with straws.

                                    BACARDI
            Bacardi              1 jigger    Seltzer              to fill
Stir in highball glass with ice until chilled, add seltzer to fill and serve
with straws.
                              BACARDI BUCK
               Bacardi           1 jigger    Sweet-Sour          1 spoon
               Cointreau         Yi jigger   Lime Rickey          to fill
Shake well with ice, strain into highball glass, add lump of ice, lime
rickey to fill and serve with straws.

                           BANNUYLS-CITRON
             Bannuyls            1 jigger    Lemon Syrup ....Yz jigger
                            Plain Soda               to fill

Stir well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice, soda
to fill and serve.

                            BARBARY COAST
             Whisky           Yi jigger      Gin                  jigger
             Creme de Cocoa ..Y2 jigger      Cream             y, jigger
                            Plain Soda               to fill
Shake well with ice, strain into highball glass, add lump of ice, soda to
fill and serve.

                           BITTER-CURACOA
             Bitter Francais ....1 jigger    Curacoa           ^ jigger
                            Plain Soda               to fill
Stir well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice, soda
to fill and serve.

                                 BIZZY IZZY
             Whisky             54 jigger    Sweet-Sour        2 spoons
             Sherry            54 jigger     Seltzer             to fill
Stir well in highball glass with ice, add seltzer to fill and serve.

                                  BON SOIR
            Benedictine        54 jigger Creme Yvette ....54 jigger
                            Ginger Ale               to fill
Stir well with ice and strain into short highball glass. Add lump of ice,
ginger ale to fill and serve with straws.
                                 HIGHBALLS                                   187



                                   BRANDY
             Brandy              1 jigger   Sweet-Sour          2 spoons
             Orange Bitters ....3 drops     Seltzer                to fill
Shake well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice, seltzer
to fill and serve.


                             BRANDY, No. 2
             Brandy           1 jigger      Sweet-Sour          2 spoons
             Absinthe         3 dashes      Seltzer                to fill

Shake well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice, seltzer
to fill and serve with straws.


                            BRANDY BUCK
         Brandy                   jiggers   Lemon              ^ portion
                           Lime Rickey               to fill
Crush lemon into highball glass with cracked ice. Add brandy and fill
with lime rickey. Agitate well with spoon and serve with straws.


                            BRANDY—SODA
             Brandy               jiggers   Plain Soda             to fill
Stir brandy with lump of ice in highball glass. Add seltzer to fill and serve.


                        BRANDY—WHITE ROCK
             Brandy              1 jigger   White Rock             to fill
Stir brandy with lump of ice in highball glass, add White Rock to fill and
serve.



                                  BULL DOG
             Oin                jiggers     Orange              Yi jigger
                           Ginger Ale             to fill
Shake well with ice, and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice,
ginger ale to fill and serve with cut straws.



                          BRUNSWICK SOUR
             Bacardi       1^ jiggers       Lime                Y^ jigger
             Sugar Syrup .....1 spoon       Claret               1 spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into short highball glass. Float claret
over and serve.
188                   BOOTHBY'S        WORLD          DRINKS



                            BYRRH-CASSIS
             Byrrh            1 jigger    Cassis                jigger
                          Plain Soda               to fill

Shake well with ice, and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice,
soda to fill and serve.


                           BYRRH-CITRON
             Byrrh            1 jigger    Lemon Syrup ....54 ji&g«r
                          Plain Soda               to fill

Stir well with ice and strain into highball glass. .Add lump of ice, soda to
fill and serve.


                             CABLEGRAM
             Whisky        \Yt jigge"     Sweet-Sour            jigger
                          Ginger Ale            to fill
Stir well with ice, in highball glass, add ginger ale to fill and serve.


                        CANADIAN GRENADIER
             Gin              1 jigger    Water Ice ...size of walnut
                          Ginger Ale           to fill
Shake well with ice and strain into chilled highball glass. Add ginger ale
to fill and serve with straws.


                            CASSIS-KIRSCH
             Cassis           1 jigger    Kirsch             Yt jigger
                          Plain Soda               to fill

Stir well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice, soda
to fill and serve.


                        CHAMBERY-FRAISETTE
             Chambery         1 jigger    Strawberry Syrup 54 jigger
                          Plain Soda               to fill

Stir well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice, soda
to fill and serve.


                           CIDER NECTAR
             Brandy           1 spoon     Cider                to fill
                          Sweet-Sour         2 spoons

Mix lemon with syrup, add brandy and strain into highball glass filled with
cracked ice. Fill with cider and serve.




                                                                               d
                               HIGHBALLS                                 189



                             CONTINENTAL
             Absinthe          1 jigger   Sugar Syrup         2 dashes
                           Seltzer                to fill

Shake well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice, seltzer
to fill, twist lemon peel over and serve.


                             CORN POPPER
             Whisky            1 jigger   Cream              5^ jigger
             Grenadine         1 spoon    Egg               H    white
                           White Rock             to fill

Shake well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice,
grate nutmeg over and serve with cut straws.


                            COUNTRY CLUB
             Fr. Vermouth ....2 jiggers     Grenadine         1 spoon
                           Plain Soda             to fill

Stir well with ice in highball glass, add plain soda to fill and serve.

                                 CRYSTAL
             Fr. Vermouth ....V5 jigger
                                     It. Vermouth .. .H jigger
             Orange           54 jigger
                                     Plain Soda         to fill
Stir well with ice in highball glass, add plain soda to fill and serve.

                               DUBONNET
             Dubonnet       15^ jiggers   Lemon               1 spoon
                           Plain Soda             to fill

Stir well with ice in highball glass, add plain soda to fill and serve.

                         DUBON NET-CITRON
             Dubonnet          1 jigger   Lemon Syrup           jigger
                           Plain Soda             to fill
Stir well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice, soda
to fiU and serve.


                                     DURKEE
             Rum               1 jigger   Sweet-Sour         2 spoons
             Curacoa .          1 dash    Seltzer              to fill
Stir well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice, seltzer
to fill and serve.
190                  BOOTHBY'S            WORLD              DRINKS



                              EGG SUISSESSE
            Absinthe                  jigger   Orgeat                1 spoon
            Egg                  1 white       Seltzer                to fill
Shake well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice, seltzer
to fill and serve with straws.


                                         ETON
               Gin              1 jigger       Kirschwasser ....Vz jigger
               Sweet-Sour      2 spoons        Plain Soda         to fill
Shake well with ice, and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice,'
plain soda to fill and serve.


                             EXPORT CASSIS
            Fr. Vermouth         1 jigger      Cassis                 jigger
                            Plain Soda                   to fill

Stir well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice, soda
to fill and serve.


                                           FIX
            Whisky               1 jigger      Sweet-Sour           2 spoons
                            Seltzer                     to   fill

Stir well with ice and strain into tall highball glass. Add lump of ice,
seltzer to fill, decorate and serve with straws.


                            FROZEN ABSINTHE
            Absinthe              jigger  Seltzer                     to fill
                            Sugar Syrup ...scant spoon
Shake well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add cracked ice, seltzer
to fill and serve with straws.


                                       GIMLET
               Gin                jiggers      Sweet-Sour             jigger
                            Plain Soda                   to fill

Stir well with ice in highball glass, add plain soda to fill and serve.


                            GIN AND SODA
            Gin              1% jiggers        Seltzer                to fill
Stir with lump of ice in tall highball glass. Add seltzer to fill and serve
with straws.
                                 HIGHBALLS                                  191



                                  GIN BUCK
            Gin               2 jiggers     Lemon             ^ portion
                           Ginger Ale               to fill
Crush lemon in tall highball glass. Add lump of ice, gin and fill with ginger
ale. Stir well and serve with straws.


                           GIN WHITE ROCK
            Gin                   jiggers   White Rock            to fill
Stir gin in tall highball glass with lump of ice, add White Rock to fill and
serve with straws.

                                 GOLF LINKS
            Whisky                 jigger   Rum                1 spoon
            Loganberry           1 spoon    Pineapple Syrup ..2 dashes
            Lemon          r..2 dashes      Seltzer               to fill

Stir all well with lump of ice in highball glass, add seltzer to fill and serve
with straws.

                           GOLF LINKS, No. 2
            Whisky               1 jigger   Loganberry            jigger
            Pineapple            1 spoon    Sweet-Sour         2 spoons
            Rum                  2 dashes   Seltzer              to fill

Stir well with ice and strain into highball glass, add lump of ice, seltzer
to fill and serve with straws.

                                     GOMME
            Fr. Vermouth         1 jigger   Sugar Syrup        2 spoons
                           Seltzer                to fill

Shake well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add cracked ice, seltzer
to fill and serve with straws.

                                   HARRY S.
            Brandy               1 jigger   Grenadine          1 spoon
            Lemon                1 spoon    Champagne            to fill
Shake well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice,
Champagne to fill and serve.

                                  HARVARD
            Brandy                 jigger   It. Vermouth ....Yt jigger
            Sugar Syrup           1 dash    Bitters           2 drops
                           Seltzer                to fill

Stir well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add cracked ice, seltzer
to fill and serve with straws.
                     BOOTHBY'S         WORLD          DRINKS



                               HAVELOCK
            Brandy            1 jigger    Ginger Wine         2 jiggers
                          Ginger Ale            to fill
Stir well with ice and strain into tall highball glass. Twist and add lemon
peel, add cracked ice, seltzer to fill and serve with straws.


                             HERE'S HOW
            Port              1 jigger    Brandy               1 jigger
            Jamaica Ginger ..6 dashes     Nutmeg               to taste
                          Seltzer               to fill

Stir well with ice and strain into tall highball glass. Twist and add lemon
peel and add cracked ice. Add seltzer to fill, grate nutmeg over and serve
with straws.



                                    HORSES
            Brandy           2 jiggers    Absinthe            2 dashes
            Bitters          3 dashes     Sweet-Sour          2 spoons
            Nutmeg            to taste    Egg                 of whole
                          Seltzer                   to fill

Shake well with ice and strain into tall highball glass. Add cracked ice,
and seltzer to fill. Grate nutmeg over and serve with straws.


                            HORSE'S NECK
            Brandy            1 jigger    Bitters               1 dash
            Lemon       peel cut spiral   Ginger Ale             to fill
Place peel in highball glass with end hanging over rim. Add cracked ice.
Shake other ingredients well and strain into glass. Add ginger ale to fill
and serve with straws. (N. B.: Whisky, rum or gin may be substituted
for brandy.)

                             HOUR GLASS
            Cognac           5^ jigger    Absinthe               jigger
            Cointreau            jigger   Plain Soda             to fill
Shake well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice,
plain soda to fill, twist lemon peel over and serve with cut straws.


                                    1. B. F.
            Cognac            1 jigger    Fernet              3 dashes
            Curacoa          3 dashes     Champagne              to fill
Stir well with ice in highball glass. Add Champagne to fill and serve.
                                  HIGHBALLS                                   193



                                        JERSEY
             Applejack            I jigger     Sugar Syrup        1 spoon
             Bitters               1    dash   Cider                to fill

Stir well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add cracked ice, twist and
add lemon peel, fill with cider and serve with straws.


                          KINA LILLET-CITRON
            Kina Lillet           1 jigger     Citron Syrup      5^ jigger
                              Plain Soda               to fill

Stir well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice, soda
to fill and serve.

                                        KIRSCH
            Kirschwasser          1 jigger     Grenadine          1 jigger
                              Seltzer                  to fill
Stir well with ice in highball glass. Add seltzer to fill, stir well and serve
with straws.


                               KISS-ME-QUICK
             Absinthe             1 jigger     Curacoa           ^ dashes
             Bitters             2 dashes      Plain Soda           to fill
Shake well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add cracked ice, soda
to fill and serve with straws.


                                        KITTY
            Claret                 jiggers     Ginger Ale           to fill
Stir claret well with ice in tall highball glass. Add ginger ale to fill and
serve with straws.


                                   KLONDYKE
               Fr. Vermouth      'A jigger     Sweet-Sour        2 spoons
               It. Vermouth      K jigger      Seltzer              to fill
Shake well with ice and strain into tall highball glass. Add cracked ice,
seltzer to fill and serve with straws.


                                  LEAP-FROG
               Gin              15^ jiggers    Lemon             2 spoons
                              Ginger Ale               to fill
Shake well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice,
ginger ale to fill and serve with cut straws.
                       BOOTHBY'S        WORLD           DRINKS



                                LEMON PIE
             Whisky          V/i jiggers   Lemon Soda              to fill
Stir well with ice in highball glass and serve.

                                MAGNOLIA
             Brandy            1 jigger    Curacoa             2 spoons
             Sugar Syrup       1 spoon     Egg                   1 yolk
                           Champagne                 to fill
Shake well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add cracked ice,
Champagne to fill and serve with straws.


                            MAMIE TAYLOR
             Scotch            1 jigger    Sweet-Sour          2 spoons
                           Ginger Ale                to fill

Stir well with ice and strain into tall highball glass. Add cracked ice,
ginger ale to fill and serve with straws.

                        MONTE CARLO IMPERIAL
             Gin              1 jigger     Lemon               14 jigger
             Creme de Menthe 54 jigger     Champagne              to fill
Shake well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice.
Champagne to fill and serve with cut straws.

                           MORNING GLORY
             Brandy              jigger    Whisky              Yi jigger
             Anisette           1 dash     Curacoa             2 dashes
             Bitters            2 drops    Sugar Syrup         2 dashes
                           Seltzer               to fill
Stir well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice, twisted
lemon peel, seltzer to fill and serve with straws.

                                     NAPA
             Gin              2 jiggers    Sweet-Sour          2 spoons       5
                           Napa Soda             to fill
Shake well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add cracked ice, fill
with Napa soda, stir well and serve with straws.
                                                                              I
                             NEW YORKER
             Whisky            1 jigger    Sweet-Sour          2 spoons
             Claret           }4 jigger    Seltzer               to fill
Stir lemon with syrup, add whisky and strain into highball glass. Add
cracked ice, seltzer to fill, float on claret and serve with straws.
                                  HIGHBALLS                                     195



                           NINETEEN-TWENTY
             Absinthe           ^ jigger     Gin                  jigger
             Orange Bitters         1 dash   Bitters             2 drops
             Sugar Syrup            1 dash   Plain Soda           to fill
Stir well with ice in highball glass. Add plain soda to fill and serve
with cut straws.

                                PEACH BLOW
             Gin                  1 jigger   Grenadine          2 spoons
            Lemon                2 spoons    Cream               1 spoon
                              Seltzer                to fill

Shake well with ice and strain into highball glass.              Add lump of ice,
seltzer to fill and serve vnth straws.


                              PHILADELPHIAN
             Applejack           1 jigger    Port Wine          1 jigger
             Orange              2 spoons    Ginger Ale           to fill
Shake well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add ginger ale to
fill and serve.

                                  PICK-ME-UP
            Brandy                1 jigger   Curacoa           .3 dashes
            Absinthe               1 dash    Orange             1 spoon
                              Champagne              to fill
Shake brandy, curacoa and orange well with ice and strain into highball
glass. Add cracked ice. Champagne to fill, stir gently, dash absinthe over
and serve with straws.

                                PICON-CITRON
            Amer Picon            1 jigger   Citron Syrup      Yt jigger
                              Plain Soda             to fill

Stir well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice, soda
to fill and serve.

                              PICON-CURACOA
            Amer Picon            1 jigger   Curacoa           ^ jigger
                              Plain Soda             to fill                "
Stir well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice, soda
to fill and serve.

                               PICON-GOMME
            Amer Picon            1 jigger   Sugar Syrup          jigger
                              Plain Soda             to fill

Stir well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice, soda
to fill and serve.
196                  BOOTHBY'S             WORLD         DRINKS



                            PICON-GRENADINE
             Amer Picon         1 jigger     Grenadine                jigger
                            Plain Soda             to fill

Stir well with ice and strain into highball glass.               Add lump of ice, soda
to fill and serve.


                     PICON-GRENADINE, No. 2
             Amer Picon         1 jigger     Grenadine             }/z jigger
                            Plain   Soda               to till

Shake well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add plain soda to
fill, twist lemon peel over and serve.


                              PINK GARTER
             Gin                1 jigger     Grenadine             ^ jigger
             Lemon             ^ jigger      Bitters               2 dashes
                            Seltzer                to till

Shake well with ice and strain into highball glass.                  Add lump of ice,
twisted lemon peel, seltzer to fill and serve.



                                      PISCO
             Pisco                  jigger   Gin                      jigger
                            Plain   Soda               to fill

Stir well with ice in highball glass. Add plain soda to fill and serve.


                              POLICHINELLE
             Creme de Cassis...1 jigger      Kirschwasser             jigger
                            Plain Soda             to fill

Stir well with ice and strain into highball glass.               Add lump of ice, soda
to fill and serve.

                                    POMPIER
             Fr. Vermouth       1 jigger     Creme de Cassis .        jigger
                            Seltzer                to fill

Stir well with ice in highball glass, add seltzer to fill and serve with straws.


                               PORT LIGHT
            Rose Menthe ....Ij^ jiggers      Seltzer                  to fill
Stir well with ice in highball glass, add seltzer to fill and serve with straws.
(N. B.; Creme de rose may be substituted for rose menthe.)
                                 HIGHBALLS                                     197



                                  PRINCESS
             Apricot Brandy ..1 jigger      Cream                  jigger
Stir brandy well, with ice, in highball glass. Float cream over top and
serve with cut straws.


                                RASPBERRY
            Gin                 1 jigger    Raspberry Syrup..     jigger
                            Lemon              2 dashes

Shake well with ice and strain into highball glass.              Add lump of ice,
seltzer to fill and serve vyith straws.



                                 RUM BUCK
             Rum                1 jigger    Sweet-Sour          2 spoons
             Anisette            1 spoon    Seltzer               to fill
Shake well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice,
seltzer to fill and serve with straws.



                                RUM—SODA
            Rum              15^ jiggers    Plain Soda            to fiil
Stir well with ice in tall highball glass, add soda to fill and serve with
straws.



                         RUM—WHITE ROCK
            Rum                 1 jigger    White Rock            to fill
Stir well with ice in tall highball glass, add White Rock to fill and serve
with straws.


                                SAN PARIAN
             Noyeau-Red ....Ij/^ jiggers    Bitters             3 dashes
                            Champagne             to fiil
Stir well with ice in highball glass, add Champagne to fill, bits of
orange over top, and serve with cut straws.



                        SECRESTAT-CURACOA
            Bitter Secrestat. ...I jigger   Curacoa               jigger
                            Plain Soda            to fill

Stir well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice, soda
to fill and serve.
198                  BOOTHBY'S           WORLD          DRINKS



                                     SETTLER
            Cognac             1 jigger       Creme de Cassis .     jigger
                           Seltzer                    to fill

Shake well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add cracked ice, seltzer
to fill and serve with straws.


                             SHANDY GAFF
            Ale               2 jiggers       Ginger Ale             to fill
Stir ale well with ice in tall highball glass, add ginger ale to fill and serve
with straws.

                                    SHARKY
             Calvados          1     jigger   Whisky              ^ jigger
             Sweet-Sour            1 spoon    Plain Soda            to fill
Stir well with ice in highball glass. Add plain soda to fill and serve.

                              SLEEPY HEAD
             Brandy                 jiggers   Mint                4 leaves
             Orange Peel           2 strips   Ginger Ale            to fill
Shake well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice,
ginger ale to fill and serve.


                                    SMASHES
            Choice of liquor ...1 Jigger      Mint                2 sprigs
                           Sweet-Sour             1 spoon
Bruise mint in short highball glass. Add cracked ice and other ingredi-
ents, stir well, decorate and serve with spoon.


                                   SNOWBALL
            Whisky             1 jigger       Egg               white only
                           Sugar Syrup              1 spoon
Shake well with ice and strain into highball glass, half filled with shaved
ice. Decorate lightly and serve with straws. (N. B.: Rum, brandy
Bacardi, etc., etc., may be substituted at will for whisky.)

                                      SOURS
            Choice of Liquor...! jigger       Lemon               2 spoons
                           Sugar Syrup               1 dash
Shake well with ice and strain into short highball glass. Add a little
cracked ice, a few dashes of seltzer, decorate and serve with spoon.
(N. B.: For a pleasing variation add about 54 of the white of an egg.)
                                 HIGHBALLS                                  199



                       SOYER-AU-CHAMPAGNE
             Cognac          54 jigger      Curacoa             54 jigger
             Maraschino       54 jigger     Ice Cream          I teaspoon
                           Champagne              to fill
Shake well with no ice and strain into highball glass. Add lump of
ice. Champagne to fill and serve.

                          STARBOARD LIGHT
             Creme de Menthe ..1 jigger     Lemon                1 spoon
                           Seltzer                  to fill

Shake well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice,
seltzer to fill and serve with straws.


                             STONE FENCE
            Whisky               1 jigger   Apple Cider         1 jigger
                           Seltzer                to fill

Shake well with ice and strain into tall highball glass. Add cracked ice,
seltzer to fill and serve with straws.


                              STONE WALL
            Whisky               I jigger   Sweet-Sour         2 spoons
                           Seltzer                to    fill

Stir well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice, seltzer
to fill and serve with straws.


                             SUMMER TIME
             Gin                 I jigger   Lemon Syrup           jigger
                           Plain   Soda           to fill

Shake well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice,
plain soda to fill and serve.


                           SWISS ABSINTHE
            Absinthe             1 jigger   Grenadine          3 dashes
Shake well with ice and strain into highball glass. Drip iced water in to
till, twist lemon peel over and serve.


                                   TODDIES
            Choice of Liquor...1 jigger     Sugar Syrup          i dash
Twist and place one piece lemon peel in short highball glass. Add lump of
ice, choice of liquor, dash of syrup and stir well. Fill with chilled water
and serve with spoon. (N. B.: Grated nutmeg may be dusted over top.)
200                   BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS



                                   VEILLEUSE
            Absinthe          ^ jigger       Sugar Syrup          1 spoon
Provide highball glass with ice, add syrup and ice water until 54 filled.
Stir until thoroughly chilled, add absinthe, stir again and serve with straws.

                        VERMOUTH-CURACOA
            Fr. Vermouth       1 jigger      Curacoa               jigger
                           Plain Soda              to fill

Stir well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice, soda
to fiU and serve.


                                    VICTORY
             Absinthe         Yz jig&cr      Grenadine           Yz Jigger
                           Plain   Soda                to fill

Shake well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice,
plain soda to fill and serve with cut straws.


                             WHISKY BUCK
            Whisky            2 jiggers      Sweet-Sour          2 spoons
                           Lime Rickey             to fill
Stir well with ice in tall highball glass. Add cracked ice, lime rickey to
fill, add Maraschino cherry and serve with straws.

                            WHISKY—SODA
            Whisky                 jiggers   Seltzer               to fill
Stir well with lump of ice in tall highball glass. Add seltzer to fill and
serve with straws.

                        WHISKY—WHITE ROCK
            Whisky              1 jigger     White Rock            to fill
Stir whisky with lump of ice in highball glass, add White Rock to fill and
serve with straws.

                                      YODEL
             Fernet            1 jigger      Orange              Y^ jigger
                           Plain   Soda                to fill

Shake well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice,
plain soda to fill and serve.
FI ZZES
   Fizzes are the favorite beverage of many enthusiasts. Plain, they con
tain neither egg nor cream. With white of egg added, they become
"Silver"; with yolk, "Golden"; with both, "Royal," and with cream, they
are termed "Cream."
   Pleasing and surprising variations of the many recipes gpven herein may
be obtained by application of the above. Other equally pleasing and differ
ent beverages result by adding to a given recipe a dash of cordial or syrup,
such as Benedictine, Cointreau, Absinthe, Curacoa, etc., etc.
   Plain Fizzes are recommended by many as "eye openers" for the
"morning after the night before."
   They may be served either in goblets or low-base tumblers (10 ounce).

                             BARCELONA
             Gin           IJ/^ jiggers   Sherry           1 jigger
             Lime              1 spoon    Sugar Syrup      1 spoon
                         Plain Soda             to fill

Shake well with ice and strain into chilled goblet. Add sharp plain soda
to fill and serve immediately.

                            BRANDY FIZZ
             Brandy        1^/3 jiggers   Sweet-Sour         jigger
             Rum               1 dash     Seltzer            to fill
Shake well with ice, strain into goblet, fill with seltzer and serve immedi
ately.
                             CREAM FIZZ
             Gin           \y2 jiggers    Sweet-Sour      5^ jigger
             Cream^          2 spoons     Seltzer            to fill
Shake well with ice, strain into goblet, fill with seltzer and serve immedi
ately.(N. B.: Brandy, Bacardi, rum, whisky, etc., may be substituted for
gin in this recipe.)
                           DIAMOND FIZZ
            Gin            ly jiggers     Sweet-Sour         jigger
                          Champagne             to fill
Shake well with ice, strain into goblet, fill with Champagne and serve
immediately.
202                  BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS



                                    FUZZY
             Creme de Menthe..! jigger    Cream                  jigger
                          Seltzer                 to fill

Shake well with ice, strain into goblet, add seltzer to fill and serve
immediately.
                                GIN FIZZ
             Gin           1% jiggers     Sweet-Sour             jigger
                          Seltzer                 to   fill

Shake well with ice, strain into goblet, fill with seltzer and serve immedi
ately. (N. B.: Try this with 2 dashes of Cointreau added.)

                            GIN FIZZ, No. 2
             Gin             2 jiggers    Lemon               2 spoons
             Grenadine       2 spoons     Seltzer                to fill
Shake well with ice, strain into goblet, fill with seltzer and serve immedi
ately. (N. B.: Any fruit syrup or Maraschino may be substituted for
grenadine in this recipe.)

                            GIN FIZZ, No. 3
             Gin            154 jiggers   Orgeat                 jigger
             Lemon            2 spoons    Plain Soda              to fill

Shake well with ice and strain into chilled goblet. Add plain soda to
fill and serve immediately.

                             GINGER FIZZ
             Gin            Wz jiggers    Sweet-Sour          y jigger
                          Ginger Ale              to fill

Shake well with ice, strain into goblet, fill with ginger ale and serve im
mediately. (N. B.: Try substitution of any preferred carbonated water
or beverage in place of ginger ale.)

                             GOLDEN FIZZ
             Gin            lYz jiggers   Egg                 yolk only
             Sweet-Sour      5^ jigger    Seltzer                to fill
Shake well with ice, strain into goblet, fill with seltzer and serve im
mediately.

                           GOOD MORNING
             Gin               1 jigger   Anisette            54 jigger
             Egg             one white    Sweet-Sour             jigger
                          Seltzer                 to   fill

Shake well with ice, strain into goblet, add seltzer to fill and serve
immediately.
                                      FIZZES                                 203



                             HARVARD FIZZ
             Brandy             1 jigger    It. Vermouth        ^ jigger
             Orange Bitters..,.3 dashes     Sugar Syrup          1 dash
                            Seltzer                 to fill

Shake well with ice, strain into goblet, fill with seltzer and serve im
mediately.

                                       lAN'S
             Gin             1^/i jiggers   Cointreau              jigger
             Orgeat             Vi jigger   Sweet-Sour          y^ jigger
             Orange            54 jigger    Plain Soda             to fill
Shake well with ice and strain into chilled goblet. Add plain soda to
fill and serve.



                             JOHN COLLINS
             Gin (Dry)           jiggers    Sweet-Sour             jigger
                           Seltzer                  to   fill

Shake well with ice, strain into goblet, fill with seltzer and serve im
mediately.


                                      FRANCE
             Cognac             1 jigger    Curacoa              1 spoon
             Absinthe           1 spoon     Grenadine            1 spoon
             Lemon              1 spoon     Seltzer                to fill
Shake well with ice, strain into goblet, fill with seltzer and serve im
mediately.


                              MARGUERITE
             Gin            \Y^ jiggers     Grenadine            1 spoon
             Bitters             1 dash     Lemon                1 spoon
                           Seltzsr                to fill

Shake well with ice and strain into goblet. Add two pieces twisted lemon
peel, fill with seltzer and serve immediately.


                           MORNING GLORY
             Whisky             jiggers     Absinthe            3 dashes
             Egg            white only      Sweet-Sour          2 spoons
                           Seltzer                to     fill

Shake well with ice, strain into goblet, fill with seltzer and serve im
mediately.
204                  BOOTHBY'S          WORLD           DRINKS
                                                                              1
                            NEW ORLEANS
             Gin                jiggers       Mint               1 sprig
             Sweet-Sour      54 jigger        Seltzer              to fill
Shake well with ice, strain into goblet, fill with seltzer and serve im
mediately.

                             ORANGE FIZZ
             Gin            154 jiggers       Orange            3 spoons
             Sugar Syrup       1 spoon        Orange Bitters....2 dashes
                           Seltzer                   to fill

Shake well with ice, strain into goblet, fill with seltzer and serve im
mediately.

                             PEACH BLOW
             Gin            154 jiggers       Peach Syrup       2 spoons
             Lemon            2 spoons        Cream             2 spoons
                           Sweet Soda                to fill

Shake well with ice, strain into goblet, fill with soda and serve im
mediately.

                                PINK LADY
             Gin            154 jiggers       Grenadine          2 spoons
             Lemon            2 spoons        Egg              white only
                           Seltzer                   to fill

Shake well with ice, strain into goblet, fill with seltzer and serve im
mediately.

                               RAMOS FIZZ
             Gin            IVi jiggers       Egg                of white
             Orange Water ...2 spoons         Sweet-Sour         2 spoons
             Cream                   jigger   Seltzer              to fill
Shake well with ice, strain into goblet, fill with seltzer and serve im
mediately.

                               REGAL FIZZ
             Brandy            1 jigger       Sweet-Sour           jigger
             Benedictine      54 jigger       Seltzer              to fill
Shake well with ice, strain into goblet, fill with seltzer and serve im
mediately.

                              RICKEY FIZZ
             Gin            154 jiggers       Sweet-Sour        54 jigger
             Absinthe         2 dashes        Lime Rickey          to fill
Shake well with ice, strain into goblet, fill with lime rickey and serve im
mediately.


                                                                               I




                                                                              ■i
                                     FIZZES                •                  205



                               ROYAL FIZZ
             Gin                jiggers    Egg                 all of one
             Sweet-Sour          jigger    Seltzer                  to fill
Shake well with ice, strain into goblet, fill with seltzer and serve im
mediately.

                                RUM FIZZ
             Rum            1^4 jiggers    Sweet-Sour               jigger
             Benedictine      2 dashes     Seltzer                  to fill

Shake well with ice, strain into goblet, fill with seltzer and serve im
mediately.

                              SILVER FIZZ
             Gin            1^4 jiggers    Egg                 white only
             Sweet-Sour      54 jigger     Seltzer                 to fill
Shake well with ice, strain into goblet, fill with seltzer and serve im
mediately.


                            SLOE GIN FIZZ
             Sloe Gin          2 jiggers   Lemon                2 spoons
             Bitters             1 dash    Seltzer                 to fill
Shake well with ice, strain into goblet, fill with seltzer and serve im
mediately.


                            ST. CROIX FIZZ
             Rum            154 jiggers    Sweet-Sour           54 jigger
             Bacardi          2 dashes     Seltzer                  to fill
Shake well with ice, strain into goblet, fill with seltzer and serve im
mediately.

                               TEXAS FIZZ
             Gin                jiggers    Grenadine             1 spoon
             Orange           2 spoons     Lemon                 1 spoon
                           Seltzer               to fill

Shake well with ice, strain into goblet, fill with seltzer and serve im
mediately.

                             TOM COLLINS
             Gin            1^2 jiggers    Sweet-Sour           H jigger
                           Seltzer               to fill

Shake well with ice, strain into goblet, fill with seltzer and serve im
mediately.
205                BOOT-HBY'SWORLDDRINKS



                         WALDORF FIZZ
                             (For Four)
           Gin             6 jiggers   Lemon             1 jigger
           Egg            all of one   Cream        2 tablespoons
           Sugar       2 tablespoons   Seltzer             to fill
Beat egg, with sugar and cream, into a paste, and place in shaker. Stir
in gin, lemon and shake immediately, with ice. Strain into goblets, add
seltzer to fill and serve promptly.


                          WHISKY FIZZ
           Whisky        15^ jiggers   Sweet-Sour       ^ jigger
           Brandy            1 dash    Seltzer              to fill

Shake well with ice, strain into goblet, fill with seltzer and serve im
mediately.
JULEP                                                                 S
   This popular beverage was invented in the Sunny Southland. It is a
Punch or Cooler in character, but, since its origination, has become so
popular it now deserves a classification of its own.
   A properly prepared Julep will have the glass well "frosted". To
accomplish this, fill the glass with shaved ice and stir slowly until the
frost appears upon the outside surface. Then drain out the excess water,
refill with shaved ice and prepare the beverage. "Frosting" may be
hastened by wrapping the glass in a clean, dry dish towel.
   Mint sprigs are the characteristic ingredient of this beverage. They
may be crushed or not crushed. Most recipes call for bruising the mint,
but as many connoisseurs prefer it not crushed, the preference of the
guests may well be sought before preparing. Under either method new
mint should be imbedded in the ice at frequent intervals and a Maraschino
or green cherry, together with flakes of orange, added for decoration.
Straws should be served. Glasses should be the low-base (10 ounce)
tumbler, with flared rim (Julep glass).


                          BRANDY JULEP
            Brandy          jiggers Rum                     1 dash
            Mint             4 sprigs   Sugar Syrup         1 spoon
Bruise mint vsdth syrup and 1 jigger water. Fill tall highball glass with
shaved ice and strain mixture into it. Add brandy, stir gently, dash rum
over, decorate with frosted mint leaves and serve with straws.


                       CHAMPAGNE JULEP
            Brandy           1 jigger   Sweet-Sour        2 spoons
           Champagne          to fill   Mint                1 sprig
Crush mint with sweet-sour in highball glass, add brandy and cracked
ice. Stir well, fill with Champagne, decorate, add mint leaf and serve
with straws.

                        GEORGIAN JULEP
           Brandy           1 jigger    Apricot Brandy ....1 jigger
           Mint             4 sprigs    Sugar Syrup        1 spoon
Crush mint with syrup in highball glass. Add cracked ice to fill and other
ingredients. Stir gently and serve with straws.
                                                                                                   ■f
208                       BOOTHBY'S                WORLD       DRINKS



                                        GIN JULEP
                   Gin                   iggers       Mint                   sprigs
                                 S eet Sour                  spoons

Bruise mint   it s eet sour and 1 igger       ater. ill tall ig ball glass
 it ice and strain t is into it. Add gin stir gently decorate it frosted
mint leaves and serve            it    stra    s.


                                       MINT           ULEP
                   Brandy               1 igger       Rum                1 das
                   Sugar Syrup          1 spoon       Mint                sprigs
                                 Selt er                     to fill

Bruise mint and stir all ell it ice in tall ig ball glass.       ill it
crac ed ice add selt er to fill decorate it sprig of mint and fruits and
serve        it    stra s.

                                 MINT              ULEP No.
                   Brandy               1 igger       Peac Brandy          igger
                   Mint               .. sprigs       Sugar Syrup        1 spoon
Bruise mint and stir all    ell   it ice in tall ig ball glass.  ill it
crac ed ice add selt er to fill decorate it sprig of mint add fruits and
serve        it    stra   s.

                                 MINT              ULEP No.
                   W is y                to fill      Brandy              1 das
                   Mint                  sprigs       Sugar Syrup        1 spoon
Bruise mint and stir all         ell     it ice in tall ig ball glass.           ill   it s aved
ice add            is y to fill stir slo ly until glass frosts add sprig of mint dust
over it           po dered sugar and serve it stra s.


                                 MINT              ULEP No.
                   W is y              1 igger        Sugar Syrup        1 spoon
                   Mint                  sprigs       Selt er              to fill
Bruise mint and stir all ell in ig ball glass. Add crac ed ice stir                          ell
add selt er to fill decorate   it mint leaves and fruits and serve                           it
stra    s.


                             MINT       ULEP Ne                Yor er
                   Cognac             1 igger         Rum                    1 das                  i
                   Sugar Syrup         l spoon        Mint                    sprigs
                                  Selt er                    to fill                               '
Bruise mint   it syrup and strain into tall ig ball glass. ill it
crac ed ice add cognac selt er to fill and das rum over top. Add
frosted mint leaves decorate                  it    fruits and serve    it     stra s.
                                JULEPS


                      OLD GEORGIA JULEP
            Whisky           1 jigger   Peach Brandy    1 jigger
            Mint             4 sprigs   Lemon            1 dash
                          Sugar Syrup       1 spoon
Place mint with syrup and lemon in highball glass with a little cracked ice
and stir gently. (Do not crush mint.) Add cracked ice to fill, pour in
whisky and brandy, stir gently, decorate with frosted mint leaves and serve
with straws.

                              RUM JULEP
            Rum            1% jiggers   Absinthe       Yt jigger
            Sugar Syrup      1 spoon    Mint            4 sprigs
Bruise mint and stir all well with ice in tall highball glass. Add shaved
ice to fill, place few frosted mint leaves over top and serve with straws.

                          WHISKY JULEP
            Whisky          2 jiggers   Mint           4 sprigs
                          Sugar Syrup      2 dashes
Bruise mint with syrup and 1 jigger water. Fill tall highball glass with
shaved ice and strain mixture into it.      Add whisky, twist lemon peel
over, add few mint leaves and serve with straws.
R I C K E Y S
   Rickeys are close akin to Sours in nature, but contain a minimum of
sweetening. The original, Lime Rickey, was prepared by crushing half
a lime and adding the other ingredients, but since that time many recipes
have come to light where lime or lemon juice is used.
   All Rickeys are characterized by a predominance of lemon or lime.
However, sugar syrup should always be used, to suit the taste, at least
to the point where this delicious beverage would not lose its individuality.
   Service should be in rickey glasses (6 ounce, low-base, flared rim).
However, a 6-ounce highball glass may be used.



                          APPLEJACK RICKEY
              Applejack      ^ jigger      Brandy           1 spoon
              Grenadine       1 spoon      Lemon            1 spoon
                           Seltzer               to fill

Stir well in rickey glass with ice. Add seltzer to fill, decorate and serve
with spoon.


                      APPLEJACK RICKEY, No. 2
            Applejack          1 jigger    Lemon           2 spoons
            Sugar Syrup        1 spoon     Ginger Ale         to fill
Stir well in rickey glass with ice.       Add ginger ale to fill, decorate and
serve with straws.


                          BACARDI RICKEY
            Bacardi           1 jigger     Lemon            1 spoon
            Sugar Syrup       2 dashes     Plain Soda         to fill
Stir well in rickey glass with ice. Add soda to fill and serve with straws.


                      BACARDI RICKEY, No. 2
            Bacardi           1 jigger     Maraschino       1 spoon
            Lemon             1 spoon      Seltzer            to fill
Stir well in rickey glass with ice. Add seltzer to fill, decorate and serve
with spoon.
                                       R I C K E Y S                              211



                              BRANDY RICKEY
               Brandy            ^ jigger       Rum                   1 spoon
               Maraschino         1 spoon       Lemon                 1 spoon
                              Seltzer                    to fill'

 Stir well in rickey glass with ice.          Add seltzer to fill, decorate and serve
 with spoon.


                                 CLOUDY SKY
              Sloe Gin           ^ jigger       Grenadine             1 spoon
              Lemon              1 spoon        Ginger Ale              to fill
Stir well in rickey glass with ice. Add gpnger ale to fill, decorate and serve
with spoon.


                            , GIN RICKEY
              Gin                2 jiggers      Lime                 one-half
              Seltzer               to fill     Sugar Syrup          1 spoon
Crush lime in rickey glass with syrup. Add lump of ice, gin, seltzer to
fill and serve.



                            GIN RICKEY, No. 2
              Gin               54 jigger       Fr. Vermouth        54 jigger
              Grenadine          1 spoon        Lemon                1 spoon
                             Seltzer                 to hll

Stir well in rickey glass with ice. Add seltzer to fill, decorate and serve
with spoon.


                                LIME RICKEY
              Gin               1 jigger       Lime                  one-half
              Sugar Syrup ...scant spoon       Seltzer                 to fill
Crush lime in highball glass and add syrup and cracked ice. Stir in gin,
add seltzer to fill and serve with straws.



                              ROYAL RICKEY
              Gin                1 jigger      It. Vermouth         5^ jigger
              Raspberry Syrup ...1 spoon       Lime                  one-half
                             Ginger Ale              to fill
Crush lime in rickey glass vinth raspberry. Shake gin and It. vermouth
well with ice and strain in. Add cracked ice, ginger ale to fill, and serve
with spoon.
                     BOOTHBY'S          WORLD           DRINKS



                           ROYAL RICKEY, No. 2
            Gin                 ^ jigger      Fr. Vermouth      1 Jigger
           Raspberries                 6      Lemon             1 spoon
                             Seltzer                  to fill

Crush raspberries and shake well with other ingredients. Strain into
rickey glass with a little cracked ice. Add seltzer to fill, decorate and
serve with spoon.


                                RUM RICKEY
            Rum                 ^ jigger      Benedictine       1 jigger
            Grenadine            1 spoon      Lemon             1 spoon
                             Seltzer                  to fill

Stir well in rickey glass with ice. Add seltzer to fill, decorate and serve
with spoon.


                            SLOE GIN RICKEY
            Sloe Gin             t jigger     Grenadine          1 dash
            Lemon                1 spoon      Sweet Soda          to fill
Stir well in rickey glass with ice.          Add soda to fill, decorate and serve
\vith spoon.


                                   SWANTON
            Whisky              Yz jigger     Fr. Vermouth ....H jigger
            Sugar Syrup          1 spoon      Lemon            one-haU
              Mint               2 sprigs     Plain Soda          to fill
Crush lemon in rickey glass with syrup and mint.                  Add cracked ice,
liquors, soda to fill and serve with straws.


                             WHISKY RICKEY
              Whisky            % jigger      Brandy            1 spoon
              Maraschino         1 spoon      Lemon             1 spoon
                             Seltzer                  to fill

Stir well in rickey glass with ice. Add seltzer to fill, decorate and serve
with spoon.


                         WHISKY RICKEY, No. 2
              Whisky              1 jigger     Benedictine       1 spoon
              Lemon               one-half     Plain Soda          to fill

Stir well in rickey glass with ice.          Add soda to fill, decorate and serve
with spoon.
                         INDIVIDUAL



PUNCHES
                        With Which Are Included

                         COOLERS
                                 and Other


    THIRST QUENCHERS
   This particular class of beverages is best suited for serving in the
noon or warm evenings. They are popularly known as "Thirst quenchers.
   Any of the recipes given herein may be enlarged into a party beverage
by increasing each ingredient in proportion to the number of guests to
be served.


                         ARCHBISHOP PUNCH
             Port              1 jigger   Rum              1 dash
             Water             1 jigger   Sweet-Sour     2 spoons
Stir all, but rum, well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add lump
of ice, decorate, dash rum over and serve with straws.

                           ARRACK COOLER
             Arrack          Yt jigger Rlim              54 jigger
             Champagne           1 dash   Sweet-Sour     2 spoons
                           Seltzer

Shake all, but Champagne, well with ice and strain into goblet. Add
lump of ice, seltzer to fill, dash Champagne over and serve with straws.

                                     B. A.
             Rum               1 jigger   Maraschino     54 jigger
             Absinthe         3 dashes    Champagne         to fill
Shake well with ice and strain into chilled goblet. Add chilled Cham
pagne to fill, decorate with bits of fruits and serve with straws.
214               BOOTHBY'S WORLD DRINKS

                          BACARDI PUNCH
            Bacardi           1 jigger     Curacoa            ^ jiggc
            Grenadine        ^ jigger      Pineapple          % jigger
                          Lemon                1 spoon

Stir in highball glass with ice, add sections of sliced orange and serve with
straws.


                        BACARDI PUNCH, No. 2
            Bacardi         ^ jigger       Sweet-Sour         2 spoons
            Cointreau         jigger       Plain Soda            to fill
Shake well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice, soda
to fill, decorate and serve with straws.

                          BOSTON COOLER
            Cognac           1 jigger      Sweet-Sour          2 spoons
            Rum                1    dash   Seltzer               to fill

Stir all, but mm, well with ice and strain into goblet. Add cracked ice,
seltzer to fill, decorate and serve with straws.

                          BRANDY COBBLER
            Brandy            1 jigger     Curacoa             1 spoon
                          Sweet-Sour           2 spoons
Stir all well with ice and strain into highball glass. Fill with shaved ice,
place Maraschino cherry on top and serve with straws.

                          BRANDY COOLER
            Brandy             jiggers     Ginger Ale                       to fill
Place twisted lemon peel in goblet, add cracked ice and brandy. Stir well,
add ginger ale to fill and serve with straws.

                           BRANDY PUNCH
            Brandy            1 jigger     Curacoa               1 dash
            Rum                1 dash      Sweet-Sour          2 spoons
                          Seltzer                to    fill

Stir all, but mm, well with ice and strain into goblet. Add cracked ice,
seltzer to fill, dash rum over, decorate and serve with straws.


                        BRANDY PUNCH, No. 2
            Brandy            1 jigger      Sweet-Sour         2 spoons
            Benedictine         jigger      Seltzer               to fill
Shake well with ice and strain into tall highball glass. Add lump of ice,
seltzer to fill and serve with straws.
                       INDIVIDUAL             PUNCHES



                           BULLDOG COOLER
             Gin            15^ jiggers     Sweet-Sour       2 spoons
                           Ginger Ale             to fill
 Stir well with ice and strain into tall highball glass. Add lump of ice,
 ginger ale to fill and serve with straws.

                         CABLEGRAM COOLER
             Whisky         1% jiggers      Sweet-Sour       2 spoons
                           Ginger Ale             to fill
 Stir well with ice and strain into tall highball glass. Add lump of ice,
 ginger ale to fill, decorate and serve with straws.

                       CHAMPAGNE COBBLER
             Champagne        2 jiggers     Sugar Syrup       1 spoon
 Stir gently with ice and strain into highball glass. Fill with shaved ice,
 decorate with sliced orange, pineapple and Maraschino cherry and serve
 with straws.


                     CHAMPAGNE COBBLER, No. 2
             Brandy              jigger     Curacoa          Yz jigger
             Champagne           to fill    Sweet-Sour       2 spoons
Stir all, except Champagne, well with ice and strain into tall highball
glass. Fill with shaved ice, add Champagne to fill, decorate and serve with
straws.


                         CHAMPAGNE PUNCH
             Curacoa          Yi j'ggcr    Champagne           to fill
                          Sweet-Sour           2 spoons
Mix lemon with syrup, add lump of ice and curacoa. Stir well, strain
into highball glass, add lump of ice. Fill with Champagne, stir gently,
decorate and serve with spoon.

                         _ CLARET COBBLER
            Claret              to fill    Sugar Syrup       1 spoon
Stir well with ice and strain into goblet. FiU with shaved ice, add claret
to fill, decorate with sliced orange, pineapple and Maraschino cherry and
serve with straws.

                           CLARET PUNCH
            Claret              to fill    Sweet-Sour       Yi jigger
Mix lemon with sugar syrup in goblet. Fill with shaved ice, pour over
claret to fill, decorate and serve with straws.
216                  BOOTHBY'S       WORLD          DRINKS



                       CLARET PUNCH, No. 2
            Claret           2 jiggers    Sweet-Sour            % jigger
                          Seltzer                  to   fill

Stir well with ice in highball glass. Add seltzer to fill, decorate and serve
with straws.

                          COFFEE COBBLER
            Brandy            1 jigger    Port                     jigger
Stir well with ice and strain into highball glass.             Fill with shaved ice,
twist lemon peel over and serve with straws.


                           CREAM PUNCH
            Cognac            1 jigger    Rum                      1 dash
            Cream             1 jigger    Sweet-Sour              1 spoon
                          Nutmeg                 to taste
Shake well with ice and strain into goblet. Add shaved ice to fill, grate
nutmeg over and serve with straws.


                                    CRUSTAS
            Choice of Liquor..! jigger    Maraschino                1 dash
            Bitters            2 drops    Lemon                spiral peel
Peel lemon in thin continuous spiral and fit on inside of frosted wineglass.
Add lump of ice. Stir ingredients well with ice, strain into prepared glass
and serve with spoon.

                          DESERT COOLER
            Gin                1 jigger   Cherry Brandy . -Yi jigger
            Orange            Ya jigger   Ginger Beer         to fiil
Shake well with ice and strain into goblet. Add lump of ice, ginger
beer to fill and serve.

                            DOCTOR FINK
            Gin             lY jiggers    Absinthe              % jigger
            Sweet-Sour        2 spoons    Plain Soda                to fill
Shake well with ice and strain into goblet. Add lump of ice, plain soda
to fill and serve.

                          ENGLISH COBBLER
            Rum               1 jigger    Strong Tea             Yi jigger
                          Sweet-Sour             2 spoons

Stir well with ice and strain into highball glass. Fill with shaved ice,
twist lemon peel over and serve with straws.
                       INDIVIDUAL PUNCHES                                  217

                          FLORIDA PUNCH
            Whisky           2 jiggers   Pineapple Juice...      jigger
            Sugar Syrup      2 spoons    Seltzer                 to fill
Stir well with ice and strain into goblet. Add cracked ice, seltzer to fill,
decorate and serve with straws.


                           FRENCH 75 MM.
            Gin              Yi jigger   Sweet-Sour         % jigger
                          Champagne            to fill
Shake well with ice and strain into chilled goblet. Add Champagne to
fill and serve.

                               GIN DAISY
            Gin               1 jigger   Sweet-Sour           2 spoons
            Absinthe         3 dashes    Seltzer                 to fill
Shake well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice, fill
with seltzer and serve with straws.


                          GIN DAISY, No. 2
            Gin              2 jiggers   Raspberry Syrup...1 jigger
            Lemon             1 spoon    Seltzer             to fill
Shake well with ice and strain into goblet. Add cracked ice, seltzer to
fill, decorate and serve with straws.


                          GIN-MINT PUNCH
            Gin             2 jiggers Mint                    4 sprigs
            Sweet-Sour      2 spoons  Ginger Ale                to fill
Bruise mint with sweet-sour. Add lump of ice and gin. Stir well
and strain into goblet. Add lump of ice, fill with ginger ale, decorate
and serve with straws.

                              GOSSAMER
            Gin            lYi jiggers   Creme de Menthe.        jigger
                          Champagne            to fill
Shake well with ice and strain into chilled goblet. Add segments of
orange. Champagne to fill and serve.


                          GREEN DRAGON
            Absinthe         I jigger    Cream                1 jigger
            Milk             1 jigger    Sugar Syrup ...        jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into chilled goblet and serve with straws.
218               BOOTHBY'S         WORLD        DRINKS



                            GYPSY PUNCH
            Rum               1 jigger   Grenadine           2 dashes
            Nutmeg            to taste   Sweet-Sour           1 spoon
                          Seltzer              to    fill

Stir well in tall highball glass with cracked ice. Add seltzer to fill, grate
nutmeg over, decorate and serve with straws.


                       HILLYCROFT COOLER
            Gin              2 jiggers   Ginger Ale            to fill
Place twisted lemon peel and cracked ice in tall highball glass.' Add gin
and stir well. Add ginger ale to fill and serve with straws.
                                                                                1




            Whisky
                         IMPERIAL PUNCH
                             2 jiggers   Champagne          2 jiggers
                                                                                1
            Curacoa           1 spoon    Sweet-Sour         % jigger
Stir all but Champagne, with cracked ice to fill, in goblet, until chilled.
Add Champagne, stir gently and serve with straws. (N. B.; Brandy or
rum may be substituted for whisky.)


                              KNOCKOUT
            Cherry Brandy ...H jigger    Benedictine         5^ jigger
            Creme de Cocoa..^ jigger     Cognac                  jigger
            Cream           H jigger     Egg                5^ of yolk
Shake well with ice and strain into chilled goblet. Add beaten white
of egg over top, dash noyau over and serve.


                       LAWN TENNIS COOLER
            Brandy           2 jiggers   Sweet-Sour          54 jigger
                          Ginger Ale            to fill
Shake well with ice and strain into tall highball glass. Add cracked ice,
seltzer to fill, decorate and serve with straws.


                         MALAHAT PUNCH
            Brandy           54 jigger   Sweet-Sour           2 spoons
            Absinthe         2 spoons    Plain Soda             to fill
Shake well with ice and strain into tall highball glass. Add cracked ice,
soda to fill and serve with straws.




                                                                                j
                     INDIVIDUAL              PUNCHES                               219



                          McKINLEY PUNCH
            Whisky             1 jigger    Grenadine              2 jiggers
            Lemon              1 spoon     Seltzer                   to fill
Stir well with cracked ice in tall highball glass.                Add seltzer to fill,
decorate and serve with straws.



                          MISSOURI COOLER
            Applejack         1 jigger     Creme de Cocoa,    j'ggrr
            Sugar Syrup        1 spoon     Milk            2 jiggers
                           Nutmeg              to taste
Shake well with ice and strain into goblet. Grate nutmeg over and serve
with straws.



                              OASIS COOLER
            Gin               2 jiggers    Fr. Vermouth          2 jiggers
            Lemon              1 spoon     Seltzer                  to fill
Shake well with ice and strain into goblet. Add cracked ice, seltzer to
fill and serve with straws. (N. B.: Lemon is optional in this recipe.)


                           ORGEAT PUNCH
            Brandy             1 jigger    Orgeat                 2 spoons
            Port                1   dash   Lemon                   1 spoon
                          Seltzer                    to fill

Shake well with ice and strain into tall highball glass. Add cracked ice,
seltzer to fill, decorate and serve with straws.



                         PARACHUTE COOLER
            Brandy            1 jigger     Kirschwasser            1 jigger
            Coffee            1 jigger     Egg                 5^ of white
                          Seltzer                to fill

Shake well with ice and strain into goblet. Add cracked ice, seltzer to
fill and serve with straws.



                              PICON PUNCH
            Amer Picon         1 jigger    Grenadine             2 spoons
            Lemon               1 dash     Seltzer                   to fill

Stir well with ice and strain into goblet. Add cracked ice, twist lemon
peel over, add seltzer to fill and serve with straws.
220                  BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS
                                                                                1
                             PISCO PUNCH                                        I
            Pisco           IK jiggers    Strong Lemonade       to fill         ]
Stir Pisco in goblet nearly filled with cracked ice. Add lemonade to fill
and serve with straws.



                          PISCO PUNCH, No. 2
            Pisco Punch       2 jiggers   Plain Soda             to fill
Place Pisco Punch in goblet with lump of ice, add plain soda to fill,
bits of pineapple and serve.


                          PLANTERS' PUNCH
            Bacardi         IK jiggers    Red Pepper          1 pinch
            Sweet-Sour        2 spoons    Nutmeg             to taste
Shake well with ice. Fill short highball glass with shaved ice and pour
in mixture. Grate nutmeg over, add pinch of red pepper and serve with
straws.



                 QUEEN CHARLOTTE COOLER
            Raspberry Syrup.15^ jiggers   Orgeat             2 dashes
                           Sweet Soda          to fill

Stir well with ice in highball glass, add soda to fill and serve with straws.


                          QUENCHER COOLER
            Cognac          IK jiggers    Egg               all of one
            Sweet-Sour       K jigger     Ginger Ale             to fill
Shake well with ice and strain into tall highball glass. Add cracked ice,
ginger ale to fill and serve with straws.


                           RAFAEL NECTAR
            Sherry            2 jiggers   Sweet-Sour         2 spoons
            Egg              all of one   Ginger Ale           to fill
Shake well with ice and strain into goblet. Add shaved ice, ginger ale to
fill, decorate and serve with straws.


                           REMSEN COOLER
            Gin               2 jiggers   Sugar Syrup         1 spoon
            Lemon Peel         6 pieces   Plain Soda            to fill
Twist peel and bruise with syrup in highball glass. Add cracked ice, gin,
soda to fill and serve with straws.
                        INDIVIDUAL            PUNCHES



                          REVIVER COOLER
             Brandy            1 jigger     Milk               2 jiggers
             Raspberry Syrup..   jigger     Sweet Soda            to fill
Shake well with ice and strain into goblet. Add cracked ice, soda to fill
and serve with straws.

                                    ROCKET
             Gin            lYi jiggers      Creme de Casis...?4 jigger
             Lemon           ^ jigger        Champagne           to fill
Shake well with ice and strain into chilled goblet. Add chilled Cham
pagne to fill, decorate with bits of fruits and serve.

                    ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOLER
            Applejack            1 jigger   Cider                to fill
            Egg              all of one     Sweet-Sour        2 spoons
                           Nutmeg                 to taste
Shake well with ice and strain into goblet. Add cracked ice, cider to fill,
grate nutmeg over and serve with straws.

                           ROMAN PUNCH
            Cognac               1 jigger   Curacoa            1 spoon
            Raspberry Syrup...1 spoon       Rum               2 dashes
            Lemon             2 spoons      Sugar Syrup        1 spoon
Stir well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add cracked ice to fill,
decorate and serve with straws.


                            RUM COBBLER
            Rum              1 jigger Pineapple Syrup ..1 spoon
                           Bacardi              1 spoon
Stir well with ice and strain into highball glass. Fill with shaved ice,
twist lemon peel over and serve with straws.

                                 RUM DAISY
            Rum                  1 jigger   Curacoa            1 spoo"
                          Sweet-Sour           2 spoons

Shake weU with ice and strain into highball glass. Add cracked ice, seltzer
to fill and serve with straws.

                              RUM PUNCH
            Rum               1 jigger Curacoa                  1 dash
            Lemon         t ...4 spoons     Sugar Syrup       2 spoons
Stir well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add cracked ice to fill,
decorate and serve with straws.
222                  BOOTHBY'S        WORLD         DRINKS



                        RUM PUNCH, No. 2
            Rum                 jigger    Curacoa           2 spoons
            Lemon             1 spoon     Seltzer              to fill
Shake well with ice and strain into goblet. Add cracked ice, seltzer to fill,
decorate and serve with straws.


                           RURAL PUNCH
            Applejack         1 jigger    Bitters             1 dash
            Cider               to fill   Sugar Syrup        1 spoon
Twist two pieces lemon peel and bruise with syrup in goblet. Add all
except cider and stir well with ice. Add cider to fill, decorate and serve
with straws.

                          RUSSIAN PUNCH
            Cognac           Yi jigger    Kummel            y.^ jigger
                          Champagne              .to fill
Place cognac and kummel in frosted short highball glass with small
lump of ice. Add Champagne to fill, stir gently and serve with straws.

                        SAUTERNE COOLER
            Sauteme          3 jiggers    Lemon             2 spoons
                          Sugar Syrup         1 spoon
Shake well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add cracked ice to fill,
place Maraschino cherry on top and serve with straws.

                         SHERRY COBBLER
            Sherry         XYz jiggers    Port               1 spoon
                          Curacoa                1 spoon
Stir sherry and curacoa well with ice and strain into highball glass. Fill
with shaved ice, dash Port over and serve with straws.

                      SHERRY COBBLER, No. 2
            Sherry              to fill   Sugar Syrup        1 spoon
Stir a little sherry with syrup in highball glass until chilled. Add cracked
ice to fill, sherry to fill, twist lemon peel over, decorate and serve with
straws.

                          SHERRY PUNCH
            Sherry           2 jiggers    Sweet-Sour        2 spoons
                          Seltzer           few dashes

Shake well with ice and strain into goblet. Add cracked ice until nearly
full. Add few dashes seltzer, decorate and serve with straws. (N. B.:
The white of an egg may also be used in this recipe.)
                        INDIVIDUAL            PUNCHES



                           STRAWBERRY PUNCH
             Sauteme           3 jiggers    Brandy               1 spoon
             Strawberries        3 or 4     Sugar Syrup         2 spoons
 Shake well with ice and strain into goblet. Add cracked ice to fill and
 serve with straws.

                                      SUDAN
             Gin                 1 jigger    Fr. Vermouth ....1 jigger
             It. Vermouth        1 jigger    Lime                1 spoon
                            Plain Soda or Cider to fill

 Shake well with ice and strain into chilled goblet. Add plain soda, or
 cider, to fill and serve.

                            TAMARIND PUNCH
             Gin               r2 jiggers    Sweet-Sour         2 spoons
             Tamarind            1 jigger    Seltzer              to fill
Stir well with ice in goblet. Add seltzer to fill, twist lemon peel over and
serve with straws.

                             TIP TOP PUNCH
             Brandy             1 jigger    Sweet-Sour          2 spoons
             Benedictine       2 spoons     Champagne              to fill
Shake all, except Champagne, well with ice and strain into tall highball
glass. Add cracked ice. Champagne to fill and serve with straws.

                           TOD SLOAN COOLER
            Gin                 1 jigger    Cassis
            Lemon               1 spoon     Sugar Syrup          1 dash
                            Seltzer                  to fill
Shake well with ice and strain into tall highball glass. Add cracked ice,
seltzer to fill and serve with straws.
                                                                    t ,


                    TURKISH HAREM COOLER
            Vin de Rose....to measure       Essence of Quince.to meas.
Fill goblet with shaved ice. Pour over Vin de Rose until half filled, add
essence of quince until filled, stir gently, decorate with pomegranate ker
nels and serve with straws.

                                 VALENCIA
            Apricot Brandy ..54 jigg"       Orange             54 jigg""
            Orange Bitters ...3 dashes      Champagne             to fill
Shake well with ice and strain into chilled goblet. Add Champagne to
fill and serve.
224                  BOOTHBY'S        WORLD         DRINKS



                           VANILLA COOLER
            Cognac             1 jigger     Creme de Vanille..}^ jigger
            Sugar Syrup         1 spoon     Cream             2 jiggers
                            Nutmeg              to taste
Shake well with ice and strain into goblet. Grate nutmeg over and serve
with straws.

                            VANILLA PUNCH
            Brandy            1 jigger      Sweet-Sour           jigger
            Creme de Vanille.^^ jigger      Sweet Soda           to fill
Stir well with ice and strain into goblet. Add cracked ice, soda to fill,
decorate and serve with straws.

                            VAULTER PUNCH
            Whisky            2 jiggers     Cider                to fill
Stir whisky well with ice and add 2 pieces twisted lemon peel, strain
into goblet, add cracked ice, cider to fill, decorate and serve with straws.
(Note: Seltzer or sweet soda may be substituted for cider in this recipe.)

                          VELVET GAFF COOLER
            Porter            2 jiggers     Champagne             to fill
Ingredients must be thoroughly chilled before opening. Chill goblet and
add porter. Fill with Champagne and serve immediately.

                            VENICE COOLER
               Brandy            1 jigger    Egg              all of one
            Sweet-Sour         2 spoons      Ginger Ale           to fill
Shake well with ice and strain into goblet. Add cracked ice, ginger ale
to fill, decorate with mint sprig, add Maraschino cherry and serve with
straws.

                            WHISKY COBBLER
            Whisky              1 jigger    Sugar Syrup         1 spoon
Stir whisky with syrup in highball glass until chilled. Add shaved ice to
fill, twist lemon peel over, decorate and serve with straws.

                            WHISKY COOLER
            Whisky             2 jiggers    Ginger ale            to fill
Place twisted lemon peel in tall highball glass. Add cracked ice, whisky
and stir well. Add ginger ale to fill and serve with straws.
                             WHISKY DAISY
               Whisky            1 jigger    Sweet-Sour         2 spoons
               Absinthe        3 dashes      Seltzer               to fill

Shake well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add cracked ice, seltzer
to fill and serve with straws.
                        INDIVIDUAL PUNCHES                                    225

                              WHISKY PUNCH
              Whisky             1 jigger     Curacoa              1 dash
              Rum                  1 dash     Lemon              4 spoons
              Sugar Syrup        2 spoons     Seltzer               to fill
 Stir well in goblet with ice. Add cracked ice, seltzer to fill, dash rum
 over, decorate and serve with straws.


                        WHISKY PUNCH, No. 2
              Whisky             1 jigger     Sweet-Sour         2 spoons
              Brandy              1 dash      Plain Soda           to fill
 Stir well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add cracked ice, soda to
 fill and serve.


                             WHITE COBBLER
             White Wine            to fill   Sugar Syrup         1 jigger
 Stir a little wine with syrup in highball glass until chilled. Add cracked
 ice to fill, white wine to fill, decorate and serve with straws.

                              WHITE FLAME
             Gin                1 jigger      Cointreau          1 jigger
                            Champagne               to fill
 Shake well with ice and strain into chilled goblet. Add Champagne to
fill, decorate with bits of fruits and serve.


                        WHITE WINE PUNCH
             White Wine          1 jigger     Sweet-Sour        2 spoons
             Arrack                jigger    Seltzer               to fill
Stir well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice, seltzer
to fill, decorate with small pieces of pineapple and orange and serve with
straws.

                        YACHT CLUB PUNCH
             Rum                1 jigger     Grenadine          Yz jigger
             Absinthe           3 dashes     liCmon             1 spoon
                            Plain Soda                to fill

Stir well with ice and strain into goblet. Add cracked ice, seltzer to fill,
decorate and serve with straws.

                            ZENITH COOLER
            Gin                 1 jigger     Pineapple          2 spoons
                            Sweet-Sour          2 spoons
Shake well with ice and strain into tall highball glass. Add cracked ice
to fill, decorate with pineapple and serve with straws.
SANGAREE S
AND SLINGS
                           ALE SANGAREE
            Ale                to fill . Sugar Syrup     2 spoons
                          Nutmeg             to taste

Stir well with ice in tall highball glass. Fill with ale, stir gently, grate
nutmeg over and serve.

                         APPLEJACK SLING
            Applejack          jiggers    Sweet-Sour     2 spoons
                          Nutmeg              to taste
Stir well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice, fill with
chilled water, grate nutmeg over and serve.


                          BEER SANGAREE
            Beer                to fill   Sugar Syrup     1 spoon
                          Nutmeg              to taste

Stir well with ice in highball glass. Add beer to fill, grate nutmeg over and
serve.


                         BRANDY SANGAREE
            Brandy             jiggers    Sugar Syrup     1 spoon
                          Nutmeg              to taste

Stir well with ice in tall highball glass. Fill with chilled water, add nutmeg
to taste and serve.

                           BRANDY SLING
            Brandy         1}4 jiggers    Sweet-Sour     2 spoons
                          Nutmeg              to taste

Stir well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice, fill with
chilled water, grate nutmeg over and serve.

                         CALVADOS SLING
            Calvados       154 jiggers    Benedictine       1 dash
            Sweet-Sour        2 spoons    Nutmeg           to taste
Stir well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice, fill with
chilled water, grate nutmeg over and serve.
                         SANGAREESANDSLINGS                                227



                          CLARET SANGAREE
             Claret                 to fill    Sugar Syrup     4 spoons
                            Nutmeg                 to taste
 Stir well with ice in tall highball glass. Grate nutmeg over and serve.


                              FANCY SLING
             Brandy               jigger      Benedictine     Yi jigger
             Lemon              1 spoon       Maraschino       1 spoon
             Absinthe          5^ jigger      Seltzer            to fill
 Shake well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add lump of ice, seltzer
 to fill, grate nutmeg over and serve.


                             GIN SANGAREE
             Gin                jiggers       Sugar Syrup     2 spoons
                            Nutmeg                to taste
 Stir well with ice in highball glass. Fill with ice water, grate nutmeg over
and serve.


                                GIN SLING
             Gin            154 jiggers       Lemon            1 spoon
             Grenadine         1 spoon        Seltzer            to fill
Shake well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add cracked ice, seltzer
to fill and serve.


                           PORT SANGAREE
             Port             2 jiggers       Sugar           2 spoons
                           Nutmeg                 to taste
Stir well with ice in highball glass. Fill with ice water, grate nutmeg over
and serve.


                           RUM SANGAREE
             Rum            15^ jiggers       Sugar Syrup     2 spoons
                           Nutmeg                 to taste
Stir well with ice in highball glass. Fill with ice water, grate nutmeg over
and serve.


                               RUM SLING
             Rum            15^ jiggers       Sweet-Sour      2 spoons
                           Nutmeg                 to taste
Shake well with ice and strain into chilled cocktail glass. Add cracked ice,
chilled water to fill, grate nutmeg over and serve.
                      BOOTHBY'S       WORLD           DRINKS



                       SAUTERNE SANGAREE
             Sauteme          2 jiggers    Sugar Syrup     2 spoons
                            Nutmeg             to taste
Shake well with ice and strain into short highball glass. Add cracked ice
to fill, grate nutmeg over and serve.


                           SHERRY SANGAREE
             Sherry           2 jiggers    Sugar Syrup     2 spoons
                            Nutmeg             to taste
Stir well with ice in highball glass. Fill with ice water, grate nutmeg over
and serve.

                             STRAITS SLING
             Benedictine       54 Jigger   Cherry Brandy ..54 jigger
             Gin               1 jigger    Bitters           1 dash
             Orange Bitters ...2 dashes    Lemon            1 spoon
                            Plain Soda           to fill

Shake well with ice and strain into tall highball glass. Add cracked ice,
soda to fill and serve.

                           WHISKY SANGAREE
             Whisky          154 jiggers   Sugar Syrup      2 spoons
                            Nutmeg             to taste

Stir well with ice in highball glass. Fill with ice water, grate nutmeg over
and serve.

                             WHISKY SLING
             Whisky              jiggers    Nutmeg             to taste
             Sweet-Sour        2 spoons     Seltzer              to fill
Stir well with ice and strain into highball glass. Add cracked ice, seltzer
to fill, grate nutmeg over and serve.
HOT BEVERAGES
 TODDIES. PUNCHES. ETC.

   Hot beverages are particularly well adapted to cold, wintry weather,
to prevent cold, by restoring bodily temperature after becoming damp,
to induce sleep and for persons threatened with chill, etc. They cover a
wide range, but a few general suggestions will not come amiss.
   Water or milk, where called for, should be at the point of boiling.
Protect glassware with a silver spoon. Most hot beverages are heavily
spiced, but this is largely at the discretion of the mixer.
   Tall highball glasses (8 ounce) are proper for serving, except where
otherwise noted.
   Many connoisseurs prefer the use of strained honey, instead of sugar,
in hot beverages.

                              ALE SANGAREE
              Ale                    to fill   Sugar Syrup         1 spoon
                             Nutmeg                to taste
Fill pewter mug with ale and stir in syrup. Heat iron bar to white heat
and slowly immerse in ale. When sufBciently heated, grate nutmeg over
and serve immediately. (N. B.: Porter may be substituted for ale in this
recipe.)

                              APPLE BRANDY
              Apple Brandy      1 jigger       Sugar Syrup         1 spoon
              Nutmeg            to taste       Hot Water             to fill
Stir, with hot water, in tall highball glass, grate nutmeg over and serve
with spoon.
                              APPLE TODDY
              Applejack         1 jigger       Baked Apple Juice.2 spoons
              Nutmeg            to taste       Hot Water            to fill
Stir, with hot water, in tall highball glass, grate nutmeg over and serve
with spoon.
                          ALHAMBRA ROYAL
           Cognac              ^ jigger        Hot Chocolate         1 cup
                             Lemon                  1 slice

Stir cognac into hot chocolate, add slice of lemon and serve with spoon.
230                  BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS



                           BACARDI GROG
            Bacardi           1 jigger     Hot Tea            54 jigger
            Sugar Syrup        1 spoon     Nutmeg              to taste
                           Hot Water               to fill

Stir well in punch cup, adding hot water to fill. Add slice of lemon, grate
nutmeg over and serve with spoon.

                               BERRYADE
            Port               1 spoon     Berries (choice)...about 12
            Sugar Syrup        1 spoon     Hot Water             to fill
Crush berries with a little hot water and strain into tall highball glass.
Add other ingredients, fill with hot water and serve with spoon.

                            BLACK STRIPE
            Rum                1 jigger    Molasses             1 spoon
            Nutmeg             to taste    Hot Water              to fill
Stir well in tall highball glass, adding hot water to fill. Grate nutmeg
over and serve with spoon.

                          BLACK STRIPE, No. 2
            Rum             IJ/J jiggers   Honey               2 spoons
            Nutmeg             to taste    Hot Water              to fill
Stir well in tall highball glass, adding hot water to fill. Grate nutmeg
over and serve with spoon.

                             BLUE BLAZER
            Scotch            2 jiggers  Sugar Syrup             1 spoon
                                Two pewter mugs
Place syrup in one mug jmd Scotch in the other. Set fire to liquor and
pour slowly from one mug to the other. When heated twist lemon peel
over and serve with spoon.

                           BURNED BRANDY
            Brandy             1 jigger    Sugar                2 cubes
Place sugar in small saucer, pour brandy over and set on fire. Stir while
burning and when sugar is entirely melted serve in whisky glass with
spoon.

                            BUTTERED RUM
            Rum                1 jigger    Butter            size of pea
            Spice             to taste     Hot Water               to fill
                           Sugar Syrup          1 spoon
Stir rum and sugar syrup with hot water in highball glass. Stir in butter,
add spice to taste and serve with spoon.
                                                                                    1

                             HOTBEVERAGES                                     231



                                CAFE ROYAL
            Chartreuse (Yellow) 2 spoons    Sugar                  1 cube
                          Hot Coffee           1 cup
Place sugar in large spoon and pour chartreuse over it. When sugar is
dissolved, add to coffee.     Stir well and serve with spoon.

                                  EGG FLIP
            Ale                2 jiggers    Egg                all of one
            Brown Sugar        2 spoons     Nutmeg                to taste
Beat egg with sugar into batter. Heat ale until nearly boiling. Pour mix
tures back and forth until smooth, pour into highball glass, grate nutmeg
over and serve.

                                  EGG NOG
            Brandy              1 jigger Rum                     1 spoon
            Sugar Syrup         2 spoons Egg                   all of one
            Hot Milk            2 jiggers   Nutmeg               to taste
Beat egg into froth, stir in sugar and brandy. Slowly stir in hot milk to
fill and add rum over top. Grate nutmeg over and serve with spoon.

                                GLUH WEIN
            Claret             3 jiggers    Sugar Syrup         2 spoons
            Cinnamon         small piece    Lemon                 1 slice
Place all in saucepan and bring to boiL Pour into tall highball glass and
serve vidth spoon.
                                       GROG
            Rum                 1 jigger    Sweet-Sour          2 spoons
                            Hot Water               to fill
Stir in highball glass, add hot water to fill, twist lemon peel over and
serve with spoon.
                                 KEY WEST
            Rum                 1 jigger Allspice              - Vi spoon
            Sugar Syrup         1 spoon Butter                size of pea
            Nutmeg              to taste Hot Water                  to fill
Stir in highball glass with hot water, twist lemon peel over, grate nutmeg
over and serve with spoon.

             LAIT DE POULE (French Egg Nog)
            Brandy              f jigger    Rum                 2 dashes
            Egg                 2 yolks     Sugar Syrup         2 spoons
                            Hot Milk           2 jiggers
Beat egg with syrup and add a little hot milk. Stir in brandy, add hot
milk to fill, dash rum over top and serve with spoon.
                     BOOTHBY'S         WORLD         DRINKS



                              LOCOMOTIVE
            Claret            2 jiggers    Curacoa            ^ jigger
            Honey              1 spoon     Egg               yolk of one
            Sugar Syrup        2 spoons    Spice                to taste
Mix all well and bring to boil in pan. Stir until smooth and sufficiently
cooled. Pour into Tom and Jerry mug, spice to taste, add slice of lemon
and serve with spoon.

                              MILK PUNCH
            Brandy          1}^ jiggers    Rum                  1 spoon
            Sugar Syrup       2 spoons     Nutmeg               to taste
                           Hot Milk           2 jiggers
Stir all in tall highball glass, grate nutmeg over and serve with spoon.
(N. B.: Whisky may be substituted for brandy in this recipe.)

                             MILK TODDIES
            Choice of Liquor 1^^ jiggers   Hot Milk          154 jiggers
Stir choice of liquors with hot milk in highball glass, grate nutmeg over
and serve with spoon.

                           MONKEY PUNCH
            St. Julien       1% jiggers    Sugar Syrup           1 spoon
            Spice               to taste   Hot Water              to fill
Stir all in highball glass, add slice of lemon, spice to taste and serve with
spoon.

                               MULLED ALE
            Ale               4 jiggers                     Pewter Mug
Place an iron bar or poker heated to white heat slowly into liquid and
when same is sufficiently hot serve with spoon. (N. B.: Porter may be
substituted for ale in this recipe.)

                              MULLED WINE
            Choice of Wine...2 jiggers     Hot Water               to fill
            Lemon             1 spoon      Sugar Syrup          2 spoons
                            Verbena                1 leaf

Heat wine to boiling point, add other ingredients, pour into tall highball
glass and serve with spoon. (N, B.: The whites of two eggs beaten into
a froth may be added to this recipe.)

                               PORT NEGUS
            Port             1% jiggers    Sugar Syrup           1 spoon
            Spice               to taste   Hot Water               to fill
Stir all in highball glass, dust spice over and serve with spoon.
                            HOTBEVERAGES                                     233



                            PORT SANGAREE
             Port              2 jiggers    Sugar Syrup          1 spoon
             Nutmeg             to taste    Hot Water              to fill
 Stir well in tall highball glass, grate nutmeg over and serve with spoon.-

                        ROAD HOUSE PUNCH
             Burgundy          4 jiggers    Spice                to taste
                            Sugar Syrup         1 spoon
 Heat Burgundy with syrup and pour into tall highball glass. Dust spice
 over and serve in Tom and Jerry mug.

                             ROYAL PUNCH
             Brandy              jiggers    Curacoa            2 spoons
             Hot Tea           2 jiggers    Egg              white only
                           Sweet'Sour          2 spoons
 Stir well in tall highball glass. Add white of egg, beaten well, and serve
 with spoon.
                                RUM GROG
            Rum                1 jigger    Hot Tea             l/i Jigger
            Hot Water            to fill   Sugar Syrup           1 spoon
                           Nutmeg              to taste
Stir well in punch cup, adding hot water to fill. Add slice of lemon,
grate nutmeg over and serve with spoon.

                                    SLINGS
            Choice of Liquor lj4 jiggers    Hot Water             to fill
            Sweet-Sour        ^ jigger      Nutmeg              to taste
Stir well in highball glass, adding hot water to fill. Grate nutmeg over
and serve with spoon.
                              SPICED RUM
            Rum             \y^ jiggers    Sugar Sjrrup         1 spoon
            Allspice           1 spoon     Butter            size of pea
                           Hot Water               to fill
Stir well in tall highball glass, adding hot water to fill. Dust allspice
over. Add half slice of lemon and serve -with spoon.

                          TAM O'SHANTER
            Scotch           2 jiggers     Sugar Syrup          1 spoon
            Lemon           few drops      Spice               to taste
                          Hot Water                to fill
Stir well in highball glass, adding hot water to filL Dust over with spice
and serve with spoon.
234                BOOTHBY'S           WORLD         DRINKS



                               TEA PUNCH
             Brandy              jiggers    Rum               2 spoons
             Hot Tea           2 jiggers    Sweet-Sour        2 spoons
. Stir well in tall highball glass, twist lemon peel over and serve with spoon.


                                  TODDIES
             Choice of Liquor ..1 jigger    Sugar Syrup         1 dash
             Hot Water            to fill   Nutmeg             to taste

Stir well in highball glass, adding hot water to fill. Twist lemon peel
over, grate nutmeg over and serve with spoon.


                 TOM AND JERRY (For 4 Persons)
             Brandy            4 jiggers    Rum               4. dashes
             Batter (see below) 8 spoons    Hot Milk              to fill
                            Nutmeg              to taste
First prepare batter. Separate 1 egg, beating both well, and then place
together. Stir in powdered sugar to consistency of cake batter and set
aside for use.
Heat 4 Tom and Jerry mugs in hot water. Add 2 spoons batter to each
mug, stir in liquor, fill with hot milk and stir well. Grate nutmeg over
and serve with spoon. (N. B.; Hot water may be substituted for milk in
this recipe.)

                             WHISKY PUNCH
             Whisky          1% jiggers     Sugar              1 spoon
             Lemon            few drops     Spice               to taste
                            Hot Water               to fill

Stir well in highball glass, adding hot water to filL            Add half slice of
lemon, spice to taste and serve with spoon.




                                                                                     a
                                                                                     n
 MISCELLANEOUS
   In this department appear many favorites of the connoisseur, together
with after-dinner beverages, members of the "nog" family and other
famous concoctions. Milk punches and a host of other delightful bev
erages are included. Here, also, will be found many pousse cafes and
 other Parisian and Continental dainties.
    In the serving of pousse cafes, where the proper glass is not at hand,
a whisky glass, placed upon a deep glass saucer and surrounded with
fine cracked ice, will serve satisfactorily. In the service of this bev
erage, a straw cut to one-half length should be placed in each glass.
Pousse cafes may be readily identified by the fact that the ingredients
are numbered in the order in which they must be placed in the glass.



                                 ALFONSO
             Dubonnet           1 jigger   Orange Bitters ...2 dashes
             Sugar               1 lump    Champagne            to fill
Dash bitters over sugar in small cocktail glass. Add lump of ice,
Dubonnet and stir well. Add Champagne to fill, stir gently, twist lemon
peel over and serve with cut straws.



                           ALSACE-LORRAINE
            Kirschwasser         jigger    Anisette          54
Pour into pony glass with no ice and serve with ice-water chaser.


                                   ANGEL
       Raspberry Syrup (1) ...54 jigger    Maraschino (2)          54 jigger
                        Creme de Violette (3) ....K jigger --
Pour carefully, as numbered and so that ingredients will not mix, into
pousse cafe glass and serve with cut straws.



                                ANGEL FACE
       Creme de Cocoa (1) ...    jigger    Prunelle (2)               jigger
Pour carefully, as numbered and so that ingredients will not mix, into
pousse cafe glass and serve with cut straws.
236                BOOTHBY'S          WORLD         DRINKS



                              ANGEL KISS
            Apricot Cordial...^ jigger     Cream           ^ jigger
Chill cordial well with ice and pour into pousse cafe glass. Float chilled
cream over top and serve with cut straws.


                           ANGEL KISS, No. 2
       Creme de Cocoa (1) ....54 jigger    Prunelle (2)           5^ jigger
       Creme de Violette (3) ..54 jigger   Cream (4)              54 jigger
Pour carefully, as numbered and so that ingredients will not mix, into
pousse cafe glass and serve with cut straws.


                               ASTRINGENT
            Port             K jigger      Sherry           54 jigger
            Jamaica Ginger....4 dashes     Nutmeg            to taste
Place ganger in cocktail glass, add port and sherry, grate nutmeg over and



                       BALTIMORE EGG NOG
            Brandy             54 jigger   Rum               54 jigger
            Madeira            54 jigger   Milk              2 jiggers
            Sugar Syrup        2 spoons    Egg             all of one
                            Nutmeg             to taste
Shake vigorously with ice, strain into tall highball glass, grate nutmeg
over and serve.


                              BASS WYATT
             Gin                1 jigger   Curacoa            1 spoon
             Sweet-Sour         1 spoon    Orange Bitters      1 dash
             Vanilla              1 drop   Egg            54 of whole
Shake well with ice, strain into short highball glass, grate nutmeg           1
over and serve.


                       BENEDICTINE-BRANDY
             Benedictine       54 jigger   Cognac            54 jigger
Pour Benedictine into pony glass without ice, float cognac over and serve
with ice-water chaser.


                              BLACK STRIPE
             Rum                1 jigger    Molasses         2 spoons
Stir well with ice, strain into cocktail glass and serve.
                           MISCELLANEOUS                                     237



                         BLACK STRIPE, No. 2
               Rum                  jiggers   Honey              2 spoons
                           Nutmeg                  to taste
 Dissolve honey with little warm water in highball glass. Add ice, rum and
 stir well. Fill with chilled water, g^ate nutmeg over and serve.

                                    BONANZA
               Brandy         ^ jigger        Angelica           1 jigger
                           Riesling                  to fill
 Stir brandy and Angelica well with ice in highball glass. Add Riesling to
 fill and serve.

                                    BOOSTER
               Brandy      I'/i jiggers       Curacoa           H jigger
                          Egg                  5^ of white
 Shake well with ice, strain into short highball glass, grate nutmeg over
 and serve.

                          BOSOM CARESSER
              Brandy         54 jigger        Curacoa              jigger
              Madeira        54 jigger        Grenadine         5^ jigger
                           Egg                     1 yolk
Shake well with ice, strain into short highball glass and serve.

                                     BRACER
              Brandy           1 jigger       Sweet-Sour         2 spoons
              Anisette        2 dashes        Egg              all of one
              Bitters         2 dashes        Vichy                to fill
Shake well with ice, strain into highball glass, add vichy to fill and serve
with straws.


                          BRANDY & GUM
              Brandy          1 jigger        Sugar Syrup        1 spoon
Stir well together in whisky glass and serve with ice water chaser.

                          BRANDY SCAFFA
              Brandy            jigger        Maraschino           jigger
                          Bitters               few   drops

Stir well in whisky glass and serve with cut straws and ice water chaser.

                          BRANDY SHAKE
              Cognac          1 jigger        Sweet-Sour       54 jigg"
Shake well with ice, strain into short highball glass and serve.
238                 BOOTHBY'S          WORLD           DRINKS



                             BRECK AND BRACE
              Cognac             1 jigger    Champagne          to fill
Stir cognac in frosted highball glass with ice, add Champagne to fill and
serve.



                             BROADWAY SMILE
         Creme de Cassis (1)       jigger    Caloric (2)                  jigger
                         Cointreau (3)             ^ jigger
Pour carefully, as numbered, into chilled pousse cafe glass, so that
ingredients will not mix, and serve with cut straws.


                              BROWN SHAKE
              Curacoa (Brown)..54 jigger     Bitters            2 drops
                              Lemon              1 spoon

Shake well with ice, strain into cocktail glass and serve.


                                 BULL'S MILK
              Brandy           154 jiggers   Sugar Syrup       1 spoon
              Milk             154 jiggers   Nutmeg            to taste
Shake well with ice, strain into highball glass, grate nutmeg over and
serve.



                              BUTTERFLY FLIP
               Cognac             1 jigger   Creme de Cocoa...54 Ugger
               Bitters             1 dash    Milk           I54 jiggers
               Sugar Syrup        1 spoon    Nutmeg            to taste
Shake well with ice, strain into highbcdl glass, grate nutmeg over and
serve.




                               CAFE DE PARIS
               Gin             154 jiggers    Anisette            1 spoon
               Cream             2 spoons     Egg             J4 of white
Shake well with ice, strain into short highball glass, grate nutmeg over
and serve with cut straws.


                                CAFE KIRSCH
               Kirschwasser       1 jigger    Coffee              jigger
               Sugar Syrup        2 spoons    Egg               of white
Shake well with ice, strain into short highball glass and serve with
cut straws.




                                                                                   J
                           MISCELLANEOUS                                     239



                                     CECIL
             Brandy             1 jigger   Egg                     1 yolk
             Sugar Syrup        1 spoon    Champagne               to fill
Shake well with ice, strain into highball glass, add chilled Champagne
to fill and serve.

                             CHAMPERELLE
            Curacoa (1)          jigger    Anisette (2)         54 jigger
            Chartreuse (3)....54 jigger    Cognac (4)           54 jigger
                           Bitters               few drops
Pour carefully, as numbered, into chilled pousse cafe glass, so that in
gredients will not mix, and serve with cut straws and ice water chaser.

                             COPENHAGEN
            Tom & Jerry Batter...2 sp.     Jamaica Rum          1 jigger
                           Lemon Soda              to fill
Stir batter with a little soda and lump of ice in Tom and Jerry mug until
smooth. Add rum, soda to fill and serve.

                       CRITERION EGG NOG
            Brandy             1 jigger    Curacoa             54 jigger
            Milk            254 jiggers    Sugar Syrup         2 spoons
                           Cinnamon              to taste

Shake vigorously with ice, strain into tall highball glass, dust cinnamon
over and serve.

                               CUCUMBER
            Creme de Menthe..54 jigger     Cream               54 jigger
Carefully float cream over creme de menthe in cocktail glass and serve.

                                 DELIGHT
            Cognac            54 jigger    Fr. Ratafia       "j54 jigger
Pour into chilled cocktail glass and serve with ice water chaser.

                                     DIANA
            Creme de Menthe 154 jiggers    Cognac               2 spoons
Fill short highball glass with shaved ice. Add creme de menthe, float
cognac over top and serve with cut straws.


                              DOG'S NOSE
           Porter            2 jiggers     Gin                  1 jigger
Add gin to porter in highball glass with cracked ice and serve.
240                      BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS                                                       f
                                                                                                    i
                                           EGG NOG
                 Brandy               1 jigger     Rum                       jigger
                 Milk                2 jiggers     Egg                   all of one
                 Sugar Syrup         2 spoons      Nutmeg                  to taste
Shake vigorously with ice, strain into tall highball glass, grate nutmeg over
and serve. (N. B.; Variations: 1, substitute whisky for brandy; 2, reverse
quantities of brandy and rum.)


                                   EGG NOG, No. 2
                 Rum                V/i jiggcra    Vanilla                  6 drops
                 Milk                 2 jiggers    Egg                   all of one
                 Sugar Syrup          2 spoons     Nutmeg                   to taste
Shake vigorously with ice, strain into tall highball glass, grate nutmeg
over and serve.


                                     EYE OPENER
                 Brandy              jigger        Absinthe                   jigger
                 Creme de Menthe..l5 jigger        Egg                   all of one
                               Red Pepper              1 pinch
Shake well with ice, strain into short highball glass, add red pepper (if
desired) and serve.
                                                                                                  '■.f'
                                       I   TH AVENUE
        Creme de Cocoa 1     1             igger    Apricot Brandy                        igger
                       Cream                                   igger
Pour carefully as numbered into c illed pousse cafe glass so t at
ingredients  ill not mix and serve it cut stra s.


                                            RAPPES
                           C oice of Li ueurs or Cordials. ..         igger
Pac a s erry glass              it s aved ice and slo ly pour in preferred beverage
until full.   Serve        it    cut stra s.


                                   GIN             BITTERS
                  Gin                  1 igger      Bitters             . .fe     drops
Wet inside of c illed coc tail glass                    it     bitters toss out add gin and
serve    it   ice       ater c aser.


                                       GIN              GUM
                 Gin                   1 igger      Sugar Syrup                 1 spoon
Stir    ell in         is y glass and serve        it        ice   ater c aser.
                             MISCELLANEOUS                                    241



                                  GIN SHAKE
              Gin                1 jigger     Sweet-Sour             jigger
 Shake well with ice, strain into short highball glass and serve.


                             GOLDEN SLIPPER
              Chartreuse (Yellow).    jig.   Egg                    I yolk
                             Goldwasser               to fill

Place Chartreuse in chilled highball glass, into which float unbroken egg
 yolk. Add Goldwasser to fill and serve.



                                GRASSHOPPER
             Creme de Menthe..J^ jigger      Creme de Cocoa..       jigger
Float creme de cocoa on creme de menthe in chilled pousse cafe glass
and serve.




                            HONEYED PEACH
             Peach Brandy        1 jigger    Honey                1 spoon
Stir well with ice, pour into whisky glass and serve with ice water chaser.


                                  ITCHIBAN
                      ("No. 1" Chinese Egg Nog)
             Brandy             jiggers      Benedictine            1 spoon
             Creme de Cocoa....1 spoon       Egg                all of one
             Milk           114 jiggers      Nutmeg                to taste
Shake vigorously with ice, strain into tall highball glass, grate nutmeg
over and serve.


                                JERSEY LILY
             Chartreuse (Yellow) 1 jigger    Brandy              14 jigger
Pour, in order named, so as not to mix, into chilled pousse cafe glass
and serve with cut straws. (Note: Whisky glass, imbedded in shaved ice,
may be used instead.)


                            KING ALPHONSE
             Creme de Cocoa..     jigger     Cream              % ji&ger
Carefully float cream over liqueur in chilled pousse cafe glass and serve.
242                BOOTHBY'S           WORLD,DRINKS
                                                                            n
                               KNICKERBEIN
             Benedictine          jigger    Chartreuse (Yellow).    jig.
             Kummel               jigger    Egg              all of one
                            Bitters               1 dash

Place bitters in bottom of chilled short highball glass and add egg yolk
whole. Add liqueurs, cover with beaten white of egg, and serve.

                           KNICKERBEIN, No. 2
             Curacoa               jigger   Kummel               jigger
             Egg                  1 yolk    Bitters            2 dashes
Place bitters in bottom of chilled cocktail glass and add egg yolk whole.
Add liqueurs and serve.

                                 LA CREOLE
             Raspberry Syrup (1).14 jig.    Maraschino (2)...}4 jigger
             Chartreuse (Yel.)(3).54 jig-   Chartreuse (Gr.)(4)..J4 jig.
Pour carefully as numbered into chilled pousse cafe glass so that ingredi
ents will not mix and serve with cut straws.


                              LA PIROUETTE
             Sherry              1 jigger   Fr. Vermouth        1 jigger
             Orange Bitters       1 dash    Bitters              2 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into short highball glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve.

                              LEAVE-IT-TO-ME
             Gin                1 jigger    Lemon               1 spoon
             Raspberry Syrup ...1 spoon     Plain Soda            to fill
Shake well with ice, strain into short highball glass, add soda to fill and
serve with straws.

                              LILLIAN RUSSELL
             Creme de Rose(l) Yi jigger     Cremede Yvettc(2) H jigger
                              Cream (3)         Ys jigger
Pour carefully, as numbered and so that ingredients will not mix, into
pousse cafe glass and serve with cut straws. (Note: A whisky glass
placed upon a glass saucer and surrounded with shaved ice may be used.)

                              LONG WHISTLE
             Brandy           ly jiggers    Sugar Syrup         1 spoon
             Milk             lY jiggers    Nutmeg              to taste
Shake vigorously with ice, strain into highball glass, grate nutmeg over
and serve. (N. B.: Whisky or rum may be substituted for brandy.)
                            MISCELLANEOUS                                     243



                            MAIDEN'S BLUSH
             Gin                jiggers       Grenadine           2 spoons
                            Oxygenee             2 dashes
 Shake well with ice, strain into short highball glass and serve.

                                MELE CASSIS                                   *|
             Cognac                  jigger   Crcme de Cassis .      jigger
Pour into chilled cocktail glass and serve with ice water chaser.

                                     MEXICAN
             Gin              2 jiggers       Lemon                 1 siice
Cover lemon with layer table salt. Place gin in whisky glass. Wipe
tongue with salted lemon, drink gpn and again wipe tongue.

                               MILK PUNCH
            Whisky            2 jiggers       Rum                  1 spoon
            Milk              2 jiggers       Sugar Syrup         2 spoons
                           Nutmeg                 to taste
Shake vigorously with ice, strain into tall highball glass, grate nutmeg
over and serve with straws. (N. B.: Brandy may be substituted for
whisky in this recipe. Also, if room is left in glass, a dash or two of
seltzer will prove pleasing.)

                          MILK PUNCH, No. 2
            Cognac          \% jiggers        Curacoa              I spoon
            Rum                  1 dash       Milk                2 jiggers
            Sugar Syrup         2 spoons      Nutmeg               to taste
Shake vigorously with ice, strain into tall highball glass, grate nutmeg
over and serve with straws.


                          MILK PUNCH, No. 3
            Brandy              1 jigger      Benedictine         5^ jigger
            Rum                  1 dash       Milk                2 jiggers
                       Nutmeg            to taste          -                        .yfl
                                                                                    '   t
Shake vigorously with ice, strain into tall highball glass, grate nutmeg
over and serve with straws.

                          PANTHER'S BREATH
            Curacoa                  jigger   Cream               5^ jigger
                           Bitters                   1 dash

Place curacoa in chilled cocktail glass, float cream over top, add
bitters and serve with cut straw.
244               BOOTHBY'S         WORLD        DRINKS



                                PARISIEN
            Framboise                    Maraschino
              Syrup (1)      % jigger     (Zara) (2)       % jigger
            Curacoa                      Chartreuse
              (Rocher) (3) ...% jigger    (Jaune) (4)     '/s jigger
                           Champagne (5) ..'/s jigger
Pour carefully, as numbered, into chilled pousse cafe glass, so that in
gredients will not mix, and serve with cut straws and ice water chaser.


                            POMPONETTE
            Fr. Vermouth (1)..^ jigger   Creme de Cassis(2)^ jigger
            Kirschwasser (3)..% jigger   Cognac (4)        Yn jigger
Pour carefully, as numbered and so that ingredients will not mix, into
pousse cafe glass and serve with cut straws. (Note: A whisky glass
placed upon a glass saucer and surrounded with shaved ice may be used.)


                             PORT NEGUS
            Port Wine         1 jigger   Sugar Syrup        1 spoon
Stir well with ice, pour into chilled cocktail glass and serve.


                               PORTOREE
            Porter         \y^ jiggers   Sugar Syrup       2 spoons
            Ice Water         1 jigger   Nutmeg             to taste
Stir well in short highball glass, add porter to fill, grate nutmeg over and
serve.



                             POUSSE CAFE
                              (Sky-scraper)
            Creme de Vanille(l)%jigger   Chartreuse
            Maraschino (2) ...% jigger     (Yellow) (4) ...% jigger
            Creme de Menthe(3)% jigger   Cognac (5)          jigger
Pour carefully, as numbered, into chilled pousse cafe glass, so that in
gredients will not mix, and serve with cut straws and ice water chaser.
(N. B.: Creme de cassis may be substituted for creme de vaniUe in this
recipe.)

                             POUSSE CAFE
                                (Southern)
Same as above, except: set fire to cognac and, after allowing to burn for
short time, carefully add lump of ice to cool.
                            MISCELLANEOUS                                  245



                            POUSSE L'AMOUR
             Grenadine          4 dashes    Egg                   1 yolk
             Maraschino        '/i jigger   Champagne          54 jigger
 Place grenadine in chilled cocktail glass and add egg yolk whole. Add
 Maraschino, carefully float over with Champagjne and serve.

                        POUSSE L'AMOUR, No. 2
             Maraschino         1 spoon     Crerae de Vanille 54
             Egg                  1 yolk    Brandy               to fill
 Place Maraschino in chilled short highball glass and add egg yolk whole.
 Cover with creme de vaniUe, float brandy over and serve.

                            PRAIRIE OYSTER
             Brandy            54 jigger    Bitters              1 dash
             Catsup             1 spoon     Worcestershire ....2 spoons
             Vinegar           2 spoons     Egg                  1 yolk
                            Red Pepper          1 pinch
 Stir well in short highball glass, drop egg yolk in whole, add red peppet
 and serve. (N. B.: This recipe is also known as Mountain Oyster. An
other version is to omit brandy and serve with sherry chaser.)

                                 PRUNELLE
             Prunelle          54 jigger    Cherry Brandy .
                            Lemon               1 spoon
Stir well and, after filling pousse cafe glass with finely cracked ice,
pour in. Add cut straws and serve.

                                 RAINBOW
                          (Pousse Americaine)
            Raspberry Syrup(l) % j'gg"      Maraschino
            Creme de                          (Zara) (2)      '/e jigger
              Vanille (3) ....'/e jigger    Curacoa
            Chartreuse                        (Fockink) (4) ..'/e jigger
              (Jaune) (5)     '/e jigger    Cognac (6)        '/a jigger
Pour carefully, as numbered, into chilled pousse cafe glass, so that in
gredients will not mix, and serve with cut straws and ice water chaser.


                              REVELATION
            Benedictine       54 jigger  Kummel               54 jigger
                            Creme de Menthe..7 drops
Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass, twist lemon peel over
and serve with cut straws.
246                  BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS



                             ROCK & RYE
            Rye Whisky        1 jigger       Sugar Syrup        1 spoon
Stir well in chilled whisky glass and serve with ice water chaser.

                          ROYAL ABSINTHE
            Absinthe                jigger   Maraschino        Yi, jigger
                          Anisette             ^ jigger
Stir well and drip through absinthe dripper into chilled highball glass.
Add dripped water until full and serve with straws.


                             ROYAL SMILE
            Applejack        ^ jigger        Gin                3^ jigger
            Grenadine         1 spoon        Lemon juice          1 spoon
                          Cream                    1 spoon

Shake well with ice, strain into short highball glass and serve.

                              RUM & GUM
            Rum               1 jigger       Sugar Syrup         1 spoon
Stir well in whisky glass and serve with ice water chaser.


                                    RUM FLIP
            Rum               2 jiggers      Rgg               all of one
            Sugar Syrup        1 spoon       Nutmeg              to taste
Shake weU with ice, strain into highball glass, grate nutmeg over and
serve.


                              RUM SHAKE
            Rum                1 jigger      Sweet-Sour         Yi jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into short highball glass and serve.


                               SAM WARD
                           Curacoa (White)...1 jigger
Fill short highball glass with shaved ice, pour in curacoa, insert half slice
of lemon and serve with cut straws.


                           SHERRY & EGG
            Sherry             1 jigger      Egg               all of one
                          Bitters                     1 dash

Place bitters in bottom of chilled short highball glass.             Carefully break
egg into it. Pour sherry over and serve.
                                     MISCELLANEOUS                                            247



                                        SHERRY FLIP
ll
                     Sherry             2 jiggers     Egg                  all of one
                     Sugar                1 spoon     Nutmeg                  to taste

      Shake well with ice, strain into highball glass, grate nutmeg over and
      serve.




                                      SHERRY NOGG
                     Sherry             2 jiggers     Milk                 1% jiggers
                     Sugar Syrup         1 spoon      Egg                   all of one
                                     Nutmeg                 to taste
     Shake well with ice, strain into tall highball glass, add dash of seltzer,
     grate nutmeg over and serve.



                                      SOL y SOMBRA
                                      (Sun & Shadow)
                     Brandy (Spanish)        jigger   Gin                    H j'gger
     Stir well with ice, strain into chilled cocktail glass and serve with ice
     water chaser.



                                             SPECIAL
                     Apricot Brandy ...J^ jigger      Curacoa                K jigger
                                     Lemon                   1 spoon

     Stir well and, after filling pousse cafe glass with finely cracked ice,
     pour in. Add cut straws and serve.



                                STARS AND STRIPES
               Creme de Cassis (1)       Vs jigger    Maraschino (2)               H jigger
                                Chartreuse (Or.) (3)           Vs jigger
     Pour carefully, as numbered, into chilled pousse cafe glass, so that
     ingredients will not mix, and serve with cut straws."(Note: Grenadine
     substituted for creme de cassis in this recipe, will produce what is
     known as Union Jack.)


                                         ST. MORITZ
                    Kummel              Yi jigger     Scotch                  1 dash
     Fill cocktail glass with shaved ice and place half slice of lemon on top.
     Pour kummel over, add Scotch and serve with cut straws.
248                 BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS



                                  SUISSESSE
              Absinthe         ^ jigger         Orgeat          2 dashes
                             Seltzer                  to fill

Shake until frost appears on shaker and drip through absinthe dripper
into chiUed highball glass. Drip seltzer until full, stir gently and serve
with straws.

                                       SUNRISE
              Cognac             1 jigger       Lime            2 spoons
                             Sugar Syrup           2 spoons
Stir lime jmce with syrup and pour into sherry glass. Float on cognac
and set afire. When nearly out carefully add lump of ice and serve with
straws.

                          VERMOUTH FRAPPE
                            Vermouth (Choice)..! jigger
Shake well with ice (until frost appears on shaker), strain into chilled
cocktail glass and serve with cut straws.


                                       WARD'S
         Chartreuse (1)                jigger   Cognac (2)             5^ jigger
Pour carefully, as numbered, into chilled pousse cafe glass, so that
ingredients will not mix, and serve with cut straws.

                            WHISKY & BITTERS
              Whisky             1 jigger       Bitters         few drops
Wet inside of whisky glass with bitters, throw out, fill with whisky and
serve with ice water chaser.

                             WHISKY & GUM
              Whisky             1 jigger       Sugar Syrup       1 spoon
Stir well in whisky glass and serve with ice water chaser.


                                WHISKY FLIP
              Whisky            2 jiggers       Egg             all of one
              Sugar Syrup        1 spoon        Nutmeg            to taste
Shake well with ice, strain into highball glass, grate nutmeg oVer and
serve.


                              WHISKY SHAKE
              Whisky          1% jiggers        Sweet-Sour       5^ jigger
Shake well with ice, strain into short highball glass and serve.
                            MISCELLANEOUS                                   249



                               WHITE LION
             Rum            lyi jiggers        Curacoa         % jigger
             Raspberry Syrup..   jigger        Lemon            1 spoon
 Shake well with ice and strain into tall highball glass; fill with fine ice.
 Decorate and serve with straws.


                              WHITE PLUSH
             Whisky             jiggers       Milk               jiggers
                            Nutmeg                to taste
 Shake well with ice, strain into highball glass, gyrate nutmeg over and
 serve.



                          WHITE PLUSH, No. 2
             Gin                   1 jigger    Maraschino       5^ jigger
                            Milk                   1 jigger
 Shake well with ice, strain into highball glass, grate nutmeg over and
serve.



                             WHITE SHAKE
            Curacoa (White)...! jigger        Bitters            3 drops
                          Lemon                    i spoon
Shake well with ice, strain into short highball glass and serve.

                             WHITE STRAP
            Molasses           2 spoons  Lemon                 2 spoons
                            White Wine ....1^ jiggers
Stir well with ice in short highball glass and serve.

                           WIDOW'S DREAM
            Benedictine         1 jigger      Egg              all of one
                           Cream                     to fill

Shake well with ice, strain into highball glass, add cream to fill and
serve with straws.

                           YVETTE VICTORIA
            Creme Yvette                      Absinthe            jigger
             (Violette)       Yn jigger
Place Yvette in chilled cocktail glass with few pieces cracked ice. Shake
absinthe until shaker is frosted, pour over and serve with cut straws.
PARTY BEVERAGES
Punches, Sherbets, Shrubs, Etc.
  Serve punches or cups in glass punch cups or in short highball glasses.
Sherbets are served in sherbet glasses. All may be decorated with small
portions of fruit (fresh, canned or candied), or Maraschino cherries, as
desired. A few sprigs of fresh mint may be used to advantage.
  When serving punches, the body of which is composed of wine or wine
and seltzer, the addition of brandy (2 jiggers) and rum (1 jigger) to each
quart of pimch will prove pleasant. A gallon of punch wiU serve about
twenty persons.
   See, also. Individual Pimches, which may be enlarged, at wiU, to serve
required number of guests.


                        AMBROSIAL NECTAR
                            (Sherbet for Ten)
            Burgundy          2 quarts     Orange       12 sliced
            Pineapple ....2 cans sliced    Cocoanut      1 grated
Use porcelain or glass mould. Build up alternate layers of fruit, sprinkling
cocoanut between each. Pour over burgundy and place in refrigerator to
freeze. Turn out and serve in sherbet glasses.


                        APPLE CIDER PUNCH
                                 (For Ten)
            Apple Cider        2 quarts    Brandy        4 jiggers
            Lemon            juice of 4    Sugar       1 teacupful
            Cucumber         see recipe    Apples          2 diced
Place ingredients in punch bowl, to which add 1 teaspoonful cucumber
juice and few pieces of cucumber rind. Add large lump of ice, stir well
and it is ready to serve.

                            ARRACK PUNCH
                                 (For Ten)
            Arrack              1 quart    Rum             54 pint
            Champagne          2 jiggers   Lemon          6 sliced
            Sugar               X pound    Hot Water       1 quart
Place sliced lemons with liquor in punch bowl and let steep for an hour
or more. Dissolve sugar in hot water and add. Add large lump of ice,
stir imfdl cool, add Champagne, decorate and it is ready to serve.
                                                                                       1
                                 PARTYBEVERAGES                                  251



                                   BACARDI GROG
                                 (Punch for Fifteen)
                   Bacardi            1 quart    Strong Tea            1 quart
                   Sugar              1 pound    Hot Water             1 quart
                                  Nutmeg               to taste
       Place sugar and water in punch bowl and stir well. Add large lump of
       ice, other ingredients and chill. Serve in punch cup with half slice of
       lemon and dash of nutmeg added.

                                  BACARDI PUNCH
                                           (For Ten)
                  Bacardi           1 quart      Cointreau           4 jiggers
                  Pineapple Syrup..4 jiggers     Lemon            juice of ten
                                  Seltzer              1 quart
       Stir well in punch bowl with large lump of ice. Add seltzer, decorate
       with orange, pineapple, mint sprigs, etc., and serve in punch glasses.

                              BALAKLAVA NECTAR
                                 (Punch for Twenty)
  ,               Champagne          2 quarts    Claret              2 quarts
Wtf               Plain Soda .        1 quart   Lemon ..juice and peel of 7
                                  Sugar ...1 teacupful
      Crush lemon peel with sugar in punch bowl, add lemon juice and claret
      and stir well. Add large lump of ice, Champagne and soda and chill. Deco
      rate, etc., and serve in punch cups.

                                 BALTIMORE KISSES
                                 (Punch for Twenty)
                  Currant Wine       4 quarts   Eggs          2 dozen whites
                                  Maple Syrup...about 1 pint
      Beat egg whites into froth, place in punch bowl and stir in currant wine.
      Add large lump of ice, syrup to taste, chill well, decorate and serve in
      punch glasses.

                                  BRANDY PUNCH
                                     (For Fifteen)
                 Brandy            1^ quarts    Rum                 2 jiggers
                 Curacoa            3 jiggers   Maraschino           1 jigger
                 Lemon            juice of 20   Sugar                1 pound
                                 Seltzer             1 quart

      Dissolve sugar with lemon juice in punch bowl and add seltzer. Add large
      lump of ice, other ingredients, chill well, decorate and serve in punch
      glasses.




Jk
                                                                            1
                 BOOTHBY'S           WORLD          DRINKS



                           BRANDY SHRUB
                              (For Twelve)
           Brandy              1 quart    Sherry              1 pint
           Sugar              Ya pound    Lemon ..juice and peel of 3
Steep lemon juice and peel in brandy for 24 hours, then discard peel. Add
sherry and sugar, stir well, strain through jelly bag and bottle for use.

                            BRIDGE PUNCH
                              (For Twelve)
           Claret               1 quart   Curacoa            1 jigger
           Maraschino          1 jigger   Brandy             1 jigger
           Sherry             3 jiggers   Seltzer             1 quart
            Orange             1 sliced   Lemon               1 sliced
           Cucumber ,.few slices peel     Sugar Syrup        4 jiggers
Place few pieces twisted lemon and orange peel in punch bowl, add other
ingredients and stir well with large lump of ice. Decorate and serve in
punch glasses.

                        BRIDGE PUNCH, No. 2
                            (For Twenty)
           Brandy              1 quart    Rum                2 jiggers
           Strong Tea          1 quart    Lemon              4 jiggers
           Orange            4 jiggers    Grapefruit ..      4 jiggers
           Pineapple ...1 can, crushed    Sugar               1 pound
            Maraschino                    Seltzer             1 quart
             Cherries          1 bottle   Mint               6 sprigs
Crush mint with sugar in punch bowl, add other ingredients with large
lump of ice and stir well. Decorate and serve in punch glasses.

                           BURGUNDY CUP
                              (For Twelve)
           Burgundy          2 quarts     Seltzer             1 quart
           Lemon,.peel and juice of 2     Sugar              8 ounces
Stir well in bowl with ice, add sugar, and when thoroughly chilled re
move lemon peel and serve in punch cups.

                           CAMBRIDGE CUP
                              (For Twelve)
           Claret              1 quart    Sherry             1 pint
           Port               2 jiggers   Cherry Brandy....2 jiggers
           Seltzer             1 quart    Lemon,.peel and juice of 1
                         Cucumber rind, verbena leaf, etc.
Crush lemon peel with 1 cube sugar and add lemon juice. Add liquors,
cucumber rind and verbena leaf and large lump of ice. Stir until thor
oughly chilled and, shortly before serving, add seltzer.




                                                                            Ai'ii
                            PARTYBEVERAGES                                253



                             CARDINAL PUNCH
                                  (For Fifteen)
               Burgundy           1 quart    Sauteme           1 pint
               Chartreuse        2 jiggers   Plain Soda       1 quart
               Lemon, juice and peel of 10   Sugar           1 pound
 Stir well in punch bowl with large lump of ice. Add few sprigs mint and
 serve in punch cups.

                             CHAMPAGNE CUP
                             (Punch for Fifteen)
             Champagne             3 pints   Brandy         6 jiggers
             Curacoa             3 jiggers   Abricotine     3 jiggers
                              Seltzer          1^ quarts
 Stir well in punch bowl with large lump of ice. Decorate and serve in
 punch cups.

                        CHAMPAGNE CUP, No. 2
                           (Punch for Ten)
             Champagne          1 quart    Amontillado      2 jiggers
             Maraschino         1 jigger   Seltzer           1 quart
                             Lemon,.juice and peel of 1
Crush lemon peel with 1 cube sugar, add lemon juice and place in punch
bowl with large lump of ice. Add liquors, stir until chilled, sweeten to
taste, add seltzer and serve in punch cups.

                          CHAMPAGNE PUNCH
                                  (For Eight)
            Champagne         1 quart        Curacoa        1 jigger
            Rum or Cognac....1 jigger        Maraschino     1 jigger
            Lemon         juice of 10        Sugar          ^ pound
                         Sweet Soda                1 pint
Dissolve sugar with lemon juice and soda in punch bowl. Add large lump
of ice and other ingredients, stir until chilled, decorate and serve in punch
cups.


                    CHAMPAGNE PUNCH, No. 2
                         (For Fifteen)
            Champagne          2 quarts  Whisky or Brandy...1 pint
            Rum               4 jiggers  Pineapple ...1 can crushed
            Green Tea           1 quart Sugar              5^ pound
                          Lemon and Orange, sliced thin
Stir all, except Champagne, in punch bowl with large lump of ice. Add
Champagne, decorate as desired and serve in punch cups.
254               BOOTHBY'S          WORLD          DRINKS



                           CHERRY SHRUB
                               (For Eight)
            Black Cherries ...5 pounds    Brandy            5^ pint
                          Sugar              1 pound
Cook cherries well in quart of water and strain through jelly bag. Cook
juice down to one quart. Remove from fire and when cool add brandy,
sugar, stir"well, strain and bottle for use.

                               CIDER CUP
                             (For Twelve)
            Cider             3 quarts    Sherry           6 jiggers
            Brandy           3 jiggers    Curacoa          3 jiggers
            Lemon            peel of 1    Sugar          1 teacupful
Crush lemon peel with 1 cube sugar and place in punch bowl. Add other
ingredients with large lump of ice and stir until chilled. Serve in punch
cups.

                             CIDER PUNCH
                                (For Four)
            Cider                1 pint   Sherry            1 jigger
            Brandy             1 jigger   Curacoa           1 jigger
            Orange            5^ sliced   Lemon          peel of one
            Cucumber           2 slices   Nutmeg            to taste
Mash lemon peel with 1 cube sugar and place in punch bowl. Add other
ingredients with lump of ice and stir until chilled. Sweeten to taste, grate
nutmeg over and serve in punch cups.

                              CLARET CUP
                              (For Twelve)
            Claret               quarts   Brandy          6 jiggers
            Curacoa           3 jiggers   Lemon           3 jiggers
            Sugar              1 pound    Seltzer        1^4 quarts
Stir all, except seltzer, with large lump of ice in punch bowl. Add seltzer,
decorate and serve in punch cups.

                         CLARET CUP, No. 2
                             (For Six)
            Claret             1 quart   Sherry            2 jiggers
            Plain Soda          1 pint   Lemon             peel of 1
                         Verbena Leaf or Sprig of Mint
Crush lemon peel with 1 cube sugar and place in punch bowl with large
lump of ice. Add claret and sherry, stir until chilled, sweeten to taste,
add soda and serve in punch cups.
m

                               PARTYBEVERAGES                                     255



                                CLARET CUP, No. 3
                                  (For Twenty)
                 Claret              2 quarts   Champagne               1 quart
                 Maraschino         2 jiggers   Seltzer                2 quarts
                                 Verbena or Mint...to taste

     Stir liquors in punch bowl with large lump of ice until chilled. Add herbs,
     sweeten to taste, add seltzer and serve in punch cups.


'                              CLARET CUP, No. 4
                                    (For Twelve)
                 Claret             1 quart  Brandy or Rum              1 pint
                 Red Grape Juice ...1 quart  Seltzer ...v              1 quart
                          Sliced Orange, Lemon, Pineapple, etc.
     Stir all well in punch bowl with large lump of.ice until chilled and serve
    in punch cups.

                                  CLARET PUNCH
                                          (For Ten)
                Claret              quarts      Champagne             1 pint
                Creme de Vanille 2 jiggers      Sweet Soda            1 pint
                Lemon         juice of 12       Sugar            »•.! pound
    Dissolve sugar with lemon juice and soda in punch bowl. Add large lump
    of ice and other ingredients, stir until chilled, decorate and serve in punch
    cups.

                              CLARET PUNCH, No. 2
                                    (For Twelve)
                Claret              3 quarts    Brandy                1 Piit
                Curacoa            2 jiggers    Lemon            juice of 6
                Sugar               1 pound     Seltzer             1 quart
                          Sliced Fruit, Pineapple, Mint Sprigs, etc.
    Dissolve sugar with lemon juice and soda in punch bowl. Add large lump
    of ice and other ingredients, stir until chilled, decorate and serve in punch
    cups.

                                    CLUB PUNCH
                                    (For Twenty)
                Champagne           2 quarts    Brandy             1 quart
                Curacoa             3 jiggers   Orange Bitters ...54 jigger
                Lemon           juice of ten    Sugar             54 pound
                                Seltzer             1 quart
    Stir all, except Champagne and seltzer, in punch bowl with large lump of
    ice. Add Champagne and seltzer, stir gently, decorate and serve in punch
    glasses.
                   BOOTHBY'S       WORLD         DRINKS



                        CURRANT SHRUB
                                (For Six)
  ^        Currants        2 pounds    Brandy           Vi pint
                        Sugar             Vi pound
Cook currants well in quart of water and strain through jelly bag. Cook
juice down to 1 quart. Remove from fire and when cool add brandy,
sugar, stir well, strain and bottle for use.

                          DANCERS' CUP
                           (For Twelve)
           Cider          V/^ quarts   Brandy         6 jiggers
           Orgeat          3 jiggers   Seltzer         1 quart
                        Lemon             peel of 1
Crush lemon peel with 1 cube sugar, add lemon juice and place in punch
bowl with large lump of ice. Add liquors, stir until chilled, sweeten to
taste, add seltzer and serve in punch cups.

                       DRAGOON PUNCH
                           (For Twelve)
           Brandy         2 jiggers    Sherry         2 jiggers
           Porter           1 quart    Lager           1 quart
           Sugar              pound    Champagne        1 quart
                        Lemon             2, sliced
Stir all, except Champagne, in punch bowl with large lump of ice. Add
Champagne and serve in punch cups.

                            DRY PUNCH
                                (For Ten)
           Brandy            1 quart   Curacoa          1 jigger
           Green Tea         1 quart   Lemon          juice of 8
                         Sugar            H pound
Dissolve sugar, with lemon juice and tea, in punch bowl. Add large lump
of ice, other ingredients, stir until chilled, decorate and serve in punch
cups.

                                EGG NOG
                            (For Twenty)
           Cognac            1 quart   Rum             3 jiggers
           Curacoa         2 jiggers   Eggs                  12
           Sugar            1 pound    Milk            3 quarts
                         Nutmeg            to taste

Separate eggs and beat each well. Stir sugar into beaten yolks, add milk,
liquors, stir well and place in punch bowl. Add beaten whites over top
and serve in glass punch cupS or small highball glasses. (N. B.: Nutmeg
should be provided on the side and added only when wished. A fancy is
colored sugar dusted over top in the punch bowl.)
                         PARTYBEVERAGES                                  257



                            EGG NOG, No. 2
                             (For Fifteen)
            Brandy             1 quart     Rum                  1 pint
            Eggs                    10     Milk               2 quarts
            Sugar             ^ pound      Nutmeg             to taste
Separate eggs and beat each well. Stir sugar into beaten yolks, add milk,
liquors, stir well and place in punch bowl. Add beaten whites over top
and serve in glass punch cups or small highball glasses. (N. B.: Nutmeg
should be provided on the side and added only when wished. A fancy is
colored sugar dusted over top in the punch bowl.)

                          ESPANOL PUNCH
                               (For Eight)
            Sherry             1 quart    Brandy . .            P'nt
            Cider              1 quart    Lemon             2 spoons
                           Sugar           1 teacupful
Stir all well in punch bowl with large lump of ice, decorate and,serve
in punch cups.
                           FIRST REGIMENT
                          (Punch for Fifteen)
            Champagne         2 quarts    Cognac               1 pint
            Curacoa           2 jiggers   Sugar              1 pound »
            Lemon          juice of 20    Seltzer             1 quart
Stir all, except Champagne, in punch bowl with large lump of ice. Add
Champagne, decorate and serve in punch glasses.


                         FISH CLUB PUNCH
                               (For Eight)
            Peach Brandy ....4 jiggers    Brandy           2 jiggers
            Rum              2 jiggers    Lemon           2K jiggers
            Sugar               pound     White Rock          3 pints
Stir well in punch bowl with large lump of ice. Twist few pieces lemon
peel over, decorate and serve in punch glasses.

                           GOTHIC PUNCH
                             (For Twenty)
           Catawba           2 quarts     Claret             1 quart
           Champagne           1 quart    Pineapple ..1 can shredded
           Sugar              1 pound     Lemon           juice of 12
Stir all, except Champagne, in punch bowl with large lump of ice. Add
Champagne, decorate and serve in punch glasses.
258                BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS



                         IMPERIAL PUNCH
                             (For Twenty)
           Brandy             3 quarts   Rum                  1 pint
           Curacoa           3 jiggers   Raspberry Syrup ..4 jiggers
           Pineapple ...1 can shredded   Lemon           juice of 10
           Sugar              1 pound    Seltzer           2 quarts
Stir all in punch bowl with large lump of ice. When chilled, decorate and
serve in punch cups.

                      INDEPENDENCE NECTAR
                        (Punch for Twenty)
           Brandy             1 quart    Claret             3 quarts
           Champagne          1 quart    Green Tea            1 pint
           Sugar             2 pounds    Lemon           juice of 24
Stir all in punch bowl with large lump of ice. When chiUed, decorate and
serve in punch cups.
                         KEYHOLE PUNCH
                              (For Fifteen)
           Champagne         2 quarts     Gin                1 quart
           Curacoa           2 jiggers   .White Rock        2 quarts
Stir gin and White Rock in punch bowl with large lump of ice.          Add
Champagne, stir gently, decorate and serve in punch glasses.

                              KEY PUNCH
                             (For Twenty)
            Brandy              1 pint   Rum                  1 pint
            Gin                1 pint    Concord Juice       3 pints
                          Ginger Ale        6 bottles
Stir well in punch bowl with large lump of ice. Decorate and serve in
punch glasses.
                            MADEIRA CUP
                             (For Twelve)
            Madeira         1% quarts    Mandarinette      3 jiggers
            Lemon             1 jigger   Seltzer              quarts
Stir all in punch bowl with large lump of ice. When chilled, decorate and
serve in punch cups.
                           MALIBU PUNCH
                              (For Twenty)
            Sauteme           2 quarts   Brandy            2 jiggers
            Applejack        2 jiggers   Pineapple         2 jiggers
            Lemon           juice of S   Apollinaris        2 quarts
                          Sugar                pound
Stir all in punch bowl with large lump of ice. When chilled, decorate and
serve in punch cups.
                          PARTYBEVERAGES                                    259



                           MIDNIGHT PUNCH
                                     (For Ten)
             Rum                1 quart     Grenadine           4 jiggers
             Grapefruit       4 jiggers     Ginger Ale          4 bottles
 Stir well in punch bowl with large lump of ice. Decorate and serve in
 punch glasses.


                            PACIFIC PUNCH
                              (For Twenty)
            Champagne          2 quarts    Cognac                1 quart
            Curacoa           2 jiggers    Seltzer               1 quart
            Sugar              1 pound     Lemon             juice of 10
 Stir all, except Champag^ne, in punch bowl with large lump of ice. When
 chilled, add Champagrne, decorate and serve in punch cups.


                               PEACE CUP
                              (For Twelve)
            Champagne        154 quarts    Brandy              3 jiggers
            Maraschino        3 jiggers    Strawberries        1 basket
            Pineapple           1 slice    Sugar                1 pound
                           Seltzer           VA quarts
 Crush fruit with sugar, place in punch bowl and add large lump of ice.
 Add liquors, stir well, add seltzer and serve in punch cups.


                             PISCO PUNCH
                              (For Twelve)
            Pisco Punch       2 bottles   Brandy           1 bottle (5th)
                          Seltzer                1 quart
Stir well in punch bowl with ice, decorate with bits of fruits and
Maraschino cherries and serve in punch cups.

                            PUNCH ROYAL
                             (For Twenty)
            Brandy              1 pint    Apricot Brandy ...4 jiggers
            Sherry             1 quart    Sauterne             1 pint
            Bardinet         2 jiggers    Orange            3 jiggers
            Lemon             1 jigger    Grapefruit         I jigger
            Cucumber...few slices peel    Mint                 3 sprigs
           Sugar             2 pounds     Ginger Ale           4 bottles
Crush mint with sugar in punch bowl. Add other ingredients, with large
lump of ice and stir well. Decorate and serve in punch glasses.
260               BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS
                                                                              1
                         REGENT'S PUNCH
                                (For Ten)
           Champagne        1% quarts    Brandy               1 pint
           Sauteme              1 pint   Rum                2 dashes
           Curacoa            1 jigger   Seltzer               1 pint
           Lemon            juice of 5   Sugar            ...H pound
Stir all in punch bowl with large lump of ice. When chilled, decorate and
serve in punch cups.


                           ROMAN PUNCH
                                (For Ten)
           Brandy               1 quart  Rum               4 jiggers
           Curacoa            2 jiggers  Raspberry Syrup...2 jiggers
           Seltzer              1 quart  Orange           juice of 6
           Lemon             juice of 6  Sugar           1 teacupful
                           Decorate with Mint Sprigs
Stir all in punch bowl with large lump of ice. When chilled, decorate and
serve in punch cups.

                               RUM GROG
                             (For Twelve)
           Rum                 1 quart   Strong Tea            1 quart
           Hot Water           1 quart   Sugar                  pound
                          Nutmeg              to taste
Dissolve sugar in water, add other ingredients and pour into punch bowl.
Add large lump of ice, stir until chilled and serve in punch cups with half
slice of lemon and dash of nutmeg.


                              RUM PUNCH
                              (For Twenty)
            Rumola ....2 bottles (5ths)   Brandy          1 bottle (5th)
            Lemon       2 bottles 5ths)   Pineapple               1 pint
                          Plain Soda ....1 bottle (5th)
Stir all in punch bowl with large lump of ice. Add bits of fruits,
pineapple, orange. Maraschino cherries, etc., and serve in punch glasses.


                              RUM SHRUB
                               (For Eight)
            Rum                1 quart    Orange Juice         1 quart
                           Sugar             Yi pound
Stir well, strain through jelly bag and bottle for use.
                             PARTY       BEVERAGES                         261



                                 STAG SPECIAL
                                (Punch for Ten)
                Whisky              1 quart   Rum         4 jiggers
                Maraschino        4 jiggers   Pineapple   4 jiggers
                Lemon            juice of 6   Green Tea     1 quart
    Stir all in punch bowl with large lump of ice. When chilled, decorate and
    serve in punch cups.
                             WHITE WINE PUNCH
                                  (For Twenty)
                White Wine         3 quarts   Champagne      1 pint
                Cognac               1 pint   Arrack      4 jiggers
                Lemon      "....juice of 10   Sugar        I pound
    Stir all in punch bowl with large lump of ice. When chilled, decorate and
    serve in punch cups.




                                                                                 J 1




                                                          'I 'l




I
wy^
WI                              NE                           S
Their Selection and Service
     Connoisseurs of premier wines, even as the wines themselves,
are rare birds. They are those who constantly seek out hidden
caches of fine vintages (years), for the year of a wine's birth has
all to do with its quality, and, by devious means, having pro
cured that which they sought, retire into their secluded nook
with much self-satisfaction.
    These self-same connoisseurs then will spend much time in
sweet anticipation of the impending event and, when the au
spicious moment arrives, and the treasure be drawn from its
secret resting place, again it is they, and they only, who bask in
its bottled sunshine and fawn in the flood of their friends' rap
turous approval anent its body, bouquet, etc., etc.
    However, these connoisseurs being rare birds, indeed, it is
not to them, who surely need no guidance in their quest for
vintage, that this short treatise is dedicated. Rather to the com
mon flock, or fledgling if you please, nine hundred ninety-nine
strong to each connoisseur, this feeble effort from a sea of vol
umes is respectfully offered.
    For those whose palates and whose nostrils are not so
keenly attuned to that finesse acquired by the epicure in wines,
for those who though they might enjoy the bouquet, yet do not
readily recognize it, and, for the very life of them, could not
name its vintage, the publisher offers.what aid he might.
     Wines, in one form or another, have come down to us from
the days of the Pharaohs. It is claimed first to have been dis
covered by the Egyptians in the earliest days of history. These
pyramid builders are reported to have fermented, from the ten
der shoots of the date palm, a liquid termed Araq. This was
man's first knowledge of wine, and if history is to be relied upon,
the fluid produced was plenty potent.
264             BOOTHBY'S     WORLD     DRINKS



    Many countries now produce wine; in fact, to name one that
did not would prove most difficult. But no other countries pro
duce the pleasant, spirited product, generally recognized as a
wine of bouquet and body, and fit to grace the modern table, as
do France, the United States, Italy, portions of Germany and a
few other sections throughout this planet.
     True, to Spain we are indebted for most superior Sherries,
the town of Jerez, in that country, being famous for its output.
This wine, at its best, is a non-sweet liquid of most magnificent
body and bouquet. Aside from a beverage. Sherry is used by
most famous chefs in the preparation of fancy dishes. In most
instances. Sherry is a blended product, but it may be secured as
vintage. Sherry improves constantly with age, but only in
wood.
      Another famous fortified wine is Port. This beverage was
originated in Portugal, in which country the finest still is pro
duced. This is a heavy, fruity wine, serviceable only as an after-
dinner drink, or in the afternoon, or evening, with cakes. Port,
like Sherry, is chiefly a blended product, but also may be se
cured in vintage. Port, unlike Sherry, is best around ten years
old, but instances are known of it having reached a very old age
without disintegration or becoming stringy.
    To Italy we are indebted for the finest of Muscatel and to
Hungary for unexcelled Tokay. Among other well-known
heavy (fortified) wines are Malaga, Angelica, Canary and
Madeira.
      To this point, all wines referred to have been of the heavy
type, which means that brandy, in various amounts, has been
added. They all will keep indefinitely with no care whatever.
The subject of light, or table, wines now confronts us.
      France, above all European countries, and, in the Western
Hemisphere, certain portions of California have proven beyond
any doubt to have been most copiously endowed by Mother
Nature for the proper growth of vines and the production of fine
 wines. It is in these sections, and in them alone, that the three
                              WINES                             265



vital natural phenomena, absolutely essential to the successful
production of the finer wines (proper soil, proper precipitation
and just sufhcient sunshine), are most often present in propor
tion better than elsewhere.
    As to soil, the finest table wines are produced from what
appears to the layman to be the poorest soil. Chalky, rocky
hillsides, which seemingly would be fit only for goats, in France,
produce the delectable Yquem, Chablis, Medoc, Champagne and
other world-famous varieties, concerning which volumes be
yond number have been dedicated with deep reverence. In
California markedly comparable types of these justly famous
beverages are produced from ground greatly similar in char
acter.
     Just sufficient sunshine and precipitation are the two other
vital ingredients which go to make a vintage crop of wine. Too
much or too little of either of these ingi^edients and the crop is
scratched as vintage. Contra, when these elements hold their
sway, in proper proportion, then another vintage year is written
down in history.
     To present a proper understanding of this entrancing sub
ject this publisher now dares to digress, for the nonce, from
the practical, to just over the threshold of the science of wine
production. In other words, why is wine?
    All wines are primarily the result of proper fermentation
(formation of alcohol). So-called vintage wines are this and
nothing more. The finer table varieties are blended (mixed) to
a greater or lesser extent, following fermentation, and sweet or
heavy wines are fortified following this natural phenomenon.
Fermentation is a natural occurrence. Any liquid, exposed to
the air, will ferment, but, to secure proper fermentation, as
measured by the combined opinion of most experts upon the
subject, and which opinion seemingly has met with the favor
of the wine-consuming public, certain other elements now must
be considered.
    First among these is the cause of fermentation.         This
265            BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS



phenomenon is caused by yeast spores, ever present in the air
and, indeed, even upon the skin of the grape itself. Fermenta
tion, by its chemical action, breaks up the sugar content of any
given liquid into its two component parts, alcohol and carbonic
gas. The latter escapes into the atmosphere. Fermentation
occurs in two steps. The first, violent fermentation continues
from eight to ten days, after which the liquid is decanted into
another receptacle. Following this, after-fermentation takes
place, which continues from four to six weeks. In some in
stances, thereafter the resulting wine must be clarified and then
allowed to age. Most table wines are at their best age from six
to ten years, but this varies, to a great extent, with the particu
lar variety. Thus a vintage variety of, say, 1928 may prove a
much more desirable beverage than the same variety, years
older, but from a non-vintage year.
    Should the grape be from a vintage year, nature alone will
produce a bounteous result, but should the year be too moist or
too dry or, contra, have too much or too little sunshine, then
man must step in, aiding nature in her deficiencies, by supplying
that which has been omitted, and an off-year for vintage crops
has gone down in history.
     On the other hand, in vintage years, nature, unaided, pro
duces a grape containing just the proper quantity of sugar and
acid. Complete fermentation thus is attained and complete
fermentation spells a dry wine along with a fine body and mag
nificent bouquet.
     France, beyond question, produces in certain years wines
of the very finest vintage, but in small quantities and at prices
well beyond the pocketbook of the average consumer. These
wines are seldom exported. They are solely for the epicure or
the gourmand who demands them and is willing to pay the
price. France also produces a large quantity of well-bodied
wines, with fine bouquet, which are procurable by the average
person at fair prices. The greatest wine production of France,
however, is of an inferior type. This is retained, mostly in bulk;
                             WINES                             267



for consumption by the peasant class and very seldom finding
its way into export trade.
     On the other hand, California, except for the very finest
French vintages, runs her European cousin a close race on
quality and quantity of marketable wines. For each of the
mother country's famous labels, this renowned state has pro
duced a similar type. This product, in a great many instances,
is grown on imported vines which are tended, frequently, by
the very same persons who tended the mother vines in Europe.
     For the average palate, California wines are sufficiently
fine. They are, in their better varieties, endowed with full body
and bouquet. The expert refinement of the epicure only could
detect a difference. They are good enough, and to the nine
hundred ninety-nine, superb. Indeed, California's main handi
cap, in the race for supremacy, is that, having been blessed with
much richer soil than are the wine provinces of France, she is
thus unable to produce that ultra-dry product so dear to the
palate of the epicure.
     As to the proper selection of wines for any given event this
publisher hesitates. Taste differs greatly and that which one
person raves over another finds mediocre.     However, as a de
cision must be arrived at, let us approach it in this manner: It
depends entirely upon the "class" of the affair being planned.
If intended to be a "knockout," the very finest French importa
tions, unquestionably, should be placed before the honored
guests. At least two whites, two reds and a vintage champagne,
together with an imported dry Sherry and a real Cognac, of
old age, should be served. If slightly less "distingue," the
champagne, as well as one white and one red, may well be
omitted. For the other extreme a gallon of white and one of red
would get by nicely.
     General rules laid down for wine seiwice require that whites
be served with light soups, white fish, oysters, other entrees
and with baked ham, turkey, chicken and desserts. If two be
selected the lighter one should be served first. These same
268              BOOTHBY'SWORLDDRINKS



rules agree that all whites should be served at "cave" tempera
ture, about 50 degrees, but never iced. To attain this coolness
the white wines may be placed in a refrigerator about two hours
before service, but should be on the table before the guests are
seated.
     By these same rules, reds are served with heavy soups, red
fish, wild game, roasts or steaks and cheese. Reds must be
served at room temperature and, if placed upon the table about
two hours before service, they will be at their best. Like white
wines, if two or more reds are selected, the lightest should be
served first.
     Champagne may be served at all courses, or may be de
ferred until dessert. It should be thoroughly chilled, but not
iced, and be poured into the hollow-stemmed, saucer type of
glassware.
     Sherry, either straight or with bitters, etc., is the preferable
prelude, as a cocktail, to a wine dinner. It should be served
natural, without cooling. However, a mild cocktail of the dryer
sort is used to a great extent in American homes.
      Port and other sweet wines are useful with cheese as after-
dinner drinks or in the afternoon, or evening, with cakes. They
should be served without cooling.
    Cognac is most favored served either in the small-black
coffee or with it. It should not be chilled.
     Liqueurs, such as Cointreau, Benedictine, Apricot Brandy,
etc., are served immediately following dinner. These are served
in liqueur glasses which have been filled with shaved ice and a
half straw served with each. Service of these, as well as Cognac,
should be from the kitchen.
      General rules for service of any wine follow:
      All whites should be chilled.
      All reds should be at room temperature.
     No corks should be pulled except at table.
     Pouring begins when the first course is on table, after which
it precedes, by a few moments, each oncoming course.
                               WINES                              269



    The glass of the host should receive a small portion of each
new bottle, after which service is continued to the right-
    Glasses should be filled not more than two-thirds, but none
allowed to become entirely empty, unless, of course, it is the
wish of the guest.
    Great care in handling and pouring should be exercised so
that sediment, ever present in wine, unless freshly decanted,
will not be disturbed.
     Separate glassware, at least for white and red wine, as well
as for champagne, should be provided. At the smarter functions
a separate glass for each variety served is provided.
     Wine bottles should not be passed around the table for
service. When a waiter or maid is not available the host should
serve his guests.
     Never serve dregs, the last inch in a bottle, to any guest.
     No wine should be wrapped with a napkin for serving.
For champagne just removed from its chiller it is permissible
to lightly enclose the neck and under portion of the body with
a napkin, folded into a triangle, so that the wet bottle itself will
not drip upon the table.
    Champagne corks should be pulled by hand, with a twisting
motion, while the bottle is being held in a slanting position to
the point where the wine just fails to pour. In this position
there will be no overflow when the cork is extracted.
    In the service of red wines a tightly rolled napkin may be
placed around the upper neck of the bottle to prevent dripping
upon the table.
    Among famous wines, very fine types of which are also
produced in California, are:
    Dry white: Chablis, Charmes, Meursault and Pouilly.
    Medium white: Montrachet, Chasagne, Goutte D'Or, Graves,
Sauternes and Barsac.
    Heavy white: Chateaux Yqueni, Quarts de Chaume,
Clemens, Vigneau, Chateau Montcontour, and Guiraud.
270             BOOTHBY'S          WORLD   DRINKS



      Light red; Lafite, La Tour, Margaux, Hermitage, Haut-
Brion, Chateauxneuf, Rauzan and Ausone.
      Heavy red: Clos Vougeot, Chambertin, Volnay, Richeborg,
Corton, Pommard and Beaune.
      Sherry: Amontillado, Oloroso, Amoroso and Montilla.
     Port: Unlike other wines. Port is classified solely by char
acter, viz.: Vintage (the wine of any one year); Tawny (a blend
of different years), and Ruby (a blend of 13 different vintage
years). Its sole guaranty of quality is therefore the label of
the maker.
      Any responsible dealer will readily recognize known brands
and either be able to supply some of them or to honestly point
out the California prototype, which in most instances will prove
highly satisfactory. As a final word, trust your dealer as you
would your doctor or lawyer; rely upon his judgment and you
cannot go far wrong.




                            V. V
The Hon.William T. Boothby
     His title was derived from a term in the California legislature, but
his fame rests on his reputation as an autliority on the mixing of drinks
and a nation-wide experience in the leading bars and hotels of New
York, Chicago, Philadelphia, Kansas City, New Orleans, and Cali
fornia. "Cocktail" Bill Boothby was known in his day as a premier
professional "mixologist" and it was his beloved hobby to collect
outstanding mixed-drink recipes from all over the world.
     In 1891 he published "Cocktail Boothby's American Bartender,"
designed ior professional use, and for many years it was recognized
as a standard authority. Many people, unconnected with the liquor
business, eagerly purchased the book, which ran to three editions,
totaling over 50,000 copies.
     When Boothby issued his fourth edition, in 1908, he changed
the title to "The World's Drinks and How to Mix Them." Sales of
the book to both professionals and amateurs continued until the ad
vent of prohibition. Private demand for the work continued thereafter
on an increasing scale and in 1930 an enlarged edition was completely
sold out in a short time.
     The present edition is the culmination of over fifty years of re
search, testing and experience, and the publishers present it with
every confidence that it is the most authentic and complete work of
its kind in existence.
Your Friends Would
Appreciate This Book
      • After using this book and discovering for your
      self how helpful It Is when you are called upon to
      mix drinks, think how much some of your friends would
      appreciate having a copy of

'•COCKTAIL             BILL"           BOOTHBY'S



WORLD DRINKS
AND        HOW            TO         MIX             THEM


                 PRICE $1.00

      • The standard work on the subject of mixing drinks
      since It was first published under the title: "Cocktail
      Boothby's American Bar-Tender," In 1891.
         This edition, enlarged and revised, contains over
       1750 dependable recipes and Is the most complete
       and authoritative encyclopedia on the subject of
       mixed drinks on the market.


                      Published by

Boothby's World Drinks Co.
460 Fourth Street                           San Francisco




                                             JO <1 liiiiyifciifciiiiuihihni
:m'^ ■



    .■
                                       -t




             "           '"   " '' v
        ■n




^0^
V   .        ' ' "It ■
