CONTAINING AUTHORITATIVE DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING 78 FAMOUS
DRINKS, TOGETHER WITH A ROLLICKING DISSERTATION ON THE JOYS
OF KING BOURBON AND ITS BROTHER RYE, BY COLONEL COBB HIMSELF
                                                                                  PRICE 50 CENTS
co PR. 1934 FRANK FOR T DI STIL LE RI ES I NCORPORAT ED   LITHO . IN u . s . A.
Anyone can build a still. But not everyone can make
good whiskey.
   For whiskey-making remains today, as it was fifty years
ago, not so much a matter of equipment as of inherited
knack.
   Into every bottle of Frankfort Whiskey goes four gen-
erations of experience. The key-men in the Frankfort
organization have not only grown up with Frankfort -
in many cases, their daddies and grand-daddies worked
for Frankfort before them. The yeast used is from the
same master culture Frankfort has guarded for 50 years.
The same old-fashioned method of making the whiskey
is used. And every drop of whiskey is aged in the only
way Frankfort believes fine whiskey can be aged - in
charred oak barrels.
   Try a bottle of Frankfort Whiskey and you'll quickly
discover the smoothness and old-fashioned flavor that
such care and skill can give.
,,'
                OWN
  RECIPE                    BOOK
       WRITIEN BY MR. COBB FOR

FRANKFORT DISTILLERIES, INCORPORATED




   "The a'iff1c1111y ues lfOI rn 11Je use or .., ~
   a bad thing, b111 in the abuse of a
   very good thing."

      -From a temperance address
       by ABRAHAM LINCO~




            COPYRIGHT 193:j. llY
    FRANKFORT DIST! LLERI ES , I NCORPORATED
         OF LOUISVILLE AND BALTIMORE
F      0      R       E       w     0       R      D




P    ROBABLY no one in all America is so well
     qualified to speak with authority upon the sub-
ject of whiskey as Irvin S. Cobb.
    He was borh and bred in ol' Kaintucky, where
prime Bo,urbon ranks with beautiful women and fast
horses as the favored toast of the citizenry. He has
personally experimented with the delights of whis-
key in all its manifestations. And in his novel, "Red
Likker", he brought to American literature the best
story of whiskey-making eve~ 'written.
   So Frankfort Distilleries (which, like Mr. Cobb,
is a Kentucky institution) takes sincere pleasure in
presenting ,.to you this masterpiece
                         .           of Mr. Cobb's.
We know you'll enjoy what Mr. Cobb has written.
And we feel sure that among the drinks for which
h e has given such eloquent directions, you will find
your own favorites.



                          5
-   more lovely babes shall blossom

                6
       ~ Y inheritance, by nativity, and by virtue of per-
                  sonal conviction, I claim the right to deal
                  with this pleasing subject. So far as the annals
 I'!          '

appear to show, the first of our tribe to land upon the coasts
of th.e Western Hemisphere -         one Deacon Henry Cobb,
who left Ireland just ahead of a warrant for rebellion
against the Crown and then left England a few hours before
a bailiff arrived with a writ -      was also the first English-
speaking resident on this Continent commissioned to "draw
spirits," which I take it meant he probably was the pioneer
licensed publican and victualler of all the glad New W odd.
(See official church records of Situate colony, in Massachu-
setts, for ·the year 1636.) Nothing is said about his serving
free lunch.
   Upwards of two centuries later, the worthy deacon's
descendant, my paternal great-grandsire, developed the love
for fast horse-flesh which ever since has distinguished our
family. We may the better understand this love of his when
I tell you he succeeded in getting beyond the borders of
                                 7
Vermont because he rode a horse that was faster than the
sheriff's horse was. He headed for Kentucky where he
opened up for business and where his breed, or some mem-
bers of it, have been domiciled ever since. There is a diary




of a traveler who, shortly after 1810, made a journey
through the settlements on the farther fringes of the
South~~n Wilderness and had a fairly bumpy experience
of it, but the only time he ever quit a party before the
party was over was when, by his own confession, he jumped
out of an upstairs window of "Squire Cobb's Tavern" into
the Cumberland River and swam that icy stream to the
comparatively peaceful territory of the Chickasaw Indian
Nation on the opposite shore. He didn't come back for his
other shirt; he sent back for it.
  Moreo~er, it was in my own State of Kentucky that one
of the four authentic whiskies originated. For, mark you,
there are but four properly recognized varieties, to wit:
Scotch whiskey and Irish whiskey in Great Britain, Rye
                             8
whiskey and Bourbon whiskey in America. This here fiery
stuff called corn whiskey, whether white or red, is an unlaw-
ful off shoot from the Bourbon tribe and among Kentuckians,
at least, is regarded as but an illegitimate orphan of the
Royal Line, born out of wedlock in the shine of the moon,
left as a foundling on the doorstep of some convenient
bootlegger and ab<;mnding in fusel oil.
  And it was not this corn whiskey or "moonshine," but
true and regal Bourbon (which averages sixty per cent
maize) that the l~te Will Lampton had reference to when
he penned his immortal verse with its forgivably libelous
tag-line:

               Kentucky, oh, Kentucky,
               How I love your classic shades,
               Where flit the fairy figures
               Of the star-eyed Southern maids;
               Where the butterflies are joying
               'Mid the blossoms newly born;
               Where the corn is full of kernels,
               And
                  The
                      Colonels
                          Fu+l
                             of
                                 Corn!

  Warning:-Illicit corn liquor may easily be identified by
these signs: It smells like gangrene starting in a mildewed
                            9
silo; it tastes like the Wrath to Come; and when you absorb
a deep swig of it you have all the sensations of having
swallowed a lighted kerosene lamp. A sudden violent jolt
of it has been known to stop the victim's watch, snap both
his suspenders, and crack his glass eye right across - all in
the same motion. Personally, I would recommend it only
to persons who are headed for the last hiccup and want to
get it over with as soon as possible. And if you must drink
it, always do so while sitting flat on the floor. Then you
don't have so far to fall.
  So now, if in these pages I should seem to lean rather
lovingly toward gallant old King Bourbon rather than
toward his estimable half-brother Prince Rye, I pray the
reader may bear with me and excuse my preferences on
the grounds of local pride, or, would you say, insular
bigotry? The best Rye, as most everyone knows, has alw'lys
come from Maryland, just as the best Bourbon has always
come from Kentucky. This noble circumstance is due to
the gr'!.,cious co-mingled chemistry of a certain climate and
a certain soil fo~mation and a certain limestone underlay;
plus a certain crafty knack in the mixing and the making
that was handed down from the fathers who discovered
generations ago this imm1:1table law: that truly great
w hiskey must be made by the "sour mash''. method,
which in contrast to the commonly used "cooker" process,
                             10
 allows slow-working Nature to bring out the full, rich fra-
 grance of the grain; and who knew, too, the value of
 that most vital and precious of the ingredients, a certain
 radiantly pure spring water found only in Kentucky and
 Maryland. This same beneficent alchemy of generous
 Nature has decreed that where these clear sweet fountains
 gush forth out of the everlasting ledge, there too the rich-
 est, lushest blue-grass shall grow, like a warp of living silk
in the loom of the fragrant meadows; and the finest race
horses on earth shall be bred, and the most aromatic mint
shall sprout, and the sweetest, nuttiest maize shall ripen,
and - so some perhaps prejudiced patriots proclaim -
more lovely babes blossom into beautiful maidenhood than
in any similar area of the habitable globe. Far be it from a
native son to deny this final boast, although it stands con-
ceded that in the important detail of pretty women other
spots justly ~~e celebrated. In this connection I think of
Richmond and New Orlea-ns, Baltimore, Minneapolis, San
Francisco -   notably San F.rancisco. In fact, I regard San
Francisco as· being the Paducah, K y., of the Pacific Slope.
  That mention of the old home town reminds me of a
little story. Something is always reminding me of a little
story, seems as if. In the good old B. V. D. days (Before
Volstead Descended) when Prohibition was as yet a cloud
no larger than a man's hand -     I reckon we might as well
                             11
call it the Pre-Cellophane Era and be done with it - a
philanthropic distiller down our way sent a perfectly mar-
velous Christmas present to a thriftless friend of his back
in the hills. He sent him a baby-sized barrel containing
prime sour-mash Bourbon. About ten days later, the recipi-
ent appeared with the empty container and an expectant
look on his face, and intimated that he could use some
more of the same. "Look here, Shep," said the distiller,
"aren't you kind of crowding the mourners just a little?
It hasn't been more than a few days since I gave you eight
whole gallons of my very best." "That's right~ " agreed
Shep, "but, Kernel Goodman, suh, you got to remember a
l,rng of likker don't last very long in a fambly that can't
afford to keep a cow."




E VEN          as two of the great whiskies are Ametican
creations, so also it is said this land of ours produced the first
mixed drink. Surely, we subsequently have been the spon-
sors for more agreeable variants of palate-soothing com-
bination~ than all the rest of the nations rolled together,
and this, next only to Bourbon and Rye, forms America's
greatest contribution to the realm of civilized and rational
                               12
indulgence. For we gave to the world the julep, we gave it
the cocktail in all its myriad forms, we gave it the rickey
and the fizz and the cobbler and many and many another
delectable concoction of inspired genius.
  Yet consider how starkly elemental were the beginnings
of this fine art: The earliest chronicled American potation
was called Flip. The formula required that there be stirred
into' a pitcher of strong home-brewed, or amateur beer
enough crud~ molasses to sweeten the beer and give it
something to fight with. To the above conglomeration, for
harmony's sake, was added rum in the proportion of one
full jorum of the rum for each drinker, thus conferring
general authority on the whole. And after that, as a dainty
final stroke, the mess was heated by plunging into it a red-
hot poker. And then -    bel~~ve it or not, dearly beloveds,




- and then our sturdy brass-lined forebears actually
drank it!
  They drank it for breakfast!
                            13
-   traditionally, with holly and mistletoe
                     14
    The rest of the forenoon being spent in songs and folk-
dancing.
                     *        *       *
   (Time out of five minutes will now be taken to permit
the modern reader to brood upon this strange behavior on
the part of the founders of the republic.)

                     *        *       *
  The interesting concoction m question dated back to
before the Revolution. Personally, I'm inclined to think it
may h?-ve had quite a good deal to do with bringing on the
Revolution. Among the more advanced and cultured of that
remote age, Flip sometimes was improved by breaking a
raw goose egg into the dram before serving. It was then
known as "A Yard of Flannel." People who couldn't afford
a goose egg might use inst'e ad a hen's egg or, in emergency,
even a wild pigeon's egg. Hence the familiar quotation:
"The short and simple flannels of the poor."
  From,,such primitive antecedents it seems a far cry to a
real Southern eggnog, the proper prescription for which
will be found elsewhe.r;e in this volume. The eggnog flowers
best at Christmas. Traditionally it goes with the holly and
the mistletoe, the good cheer and the kindly Yuletide
fellowship. I'm skeptical about Santa Claus sometimes, but
I believe in the foamy, creamy luscious eggnog, Old
Dominion style. In fact, I maintain that on Christmas morn-
                            15
mg every worthy male adult in this country should be
permitted to have at least one eggnog.
  A cold weather brother to the eggnog is the old-time
Tom and Jerry. In Down Yonderland, where I came from,
the succulent Tom and Jerry reached its delectable fruitage
with the first snowfall of the year, and not a minute sooner.
This was ritualistic and ordained and quite as it should
have been. I look forward to every Fall when I may wel-
come its lordly return. In those ancient days it usually was
served piping hot, whereas invariably the eggnog came
to your lips in a chilled state. On a night when the drifts
 sifted down across the roof shingles and the banshee voice
 of the wintry wind shrilled in the chimney top and the frost
 etched its elfin pictures on the window pane, then the Tom
 and Jerry attained the very flower of its perfection. Then
 the first sip laved your throat with a velvety touch; then the
 next soothing swallow fanned your middle system to a
 gentle simmer, and when you had emptied your tumbler
  and stepped forth, robust and unafraid, . into the storm
 you could feel the afterglow of that beneficial compound
....
 searching you all over.
   However, as one having experience in these details, I
 would..recommend that, no matter how great the temptation,
  the customer take only a single Tom and Jerry, or at most
  two. After the second there is in one man an impulse to
                               16
 weep pensively because the antelope have vanished from
 our Western plains; in another a wistful inclination to sing
 some quaint roundelay of which the singer has forgotten
 the tune and can't remember the words; and in yet a third,
 a tendency to lose things, even bulky objects. I remembe1
that once, being borne away on the winged enthusiasm of
the momerit, I absorbed three Tom and Jerries in a row,
and mislaid a cyclorama of the Battle of Gettysburg.
   I wonder if that cyclorama of the Battle of Gettysburg
can ,still be knocking around somewhere, mooing plain-
tively for old massa?




C OME         we now,    ~~vcrent!y, please, to what I insist
is the queen moth_er of all the infusions - the Mint Julep.
Who first compiled this most regal of refreshments? No-
body answers. But .our hearts are throbbing monuments to
his anonymous memory. The very o.t;igin of the julep is
wreathed in the mists of antiquity -   the same as the early
wandering of the Celts, the identity of the inventor of
books or the mystery of who it was that smote Billy Patter-
son. We do know that it was evolved in the South, that it
has been enshrined in the affections of a grateful constit-
                            17
                  y-eSi.   .a™iS^




pistols at dawn
    18
 uency for at least a century. Throughout the universe it
 now is popular, and that loud and thankful labial acknowl-
 edgment of its superiorities at the conclusion of the draft
 is the smack that was heard around the world.
    There are many schools of thought on this important
 subject, as the,re are many methods of adorning the master-
 piece. So great has been the argument on this subject that
 often the controversy could only be solved by recourse to
 pistols at dawn. One group holds that the bruised mint
should •be left in the potion. But my grandfather always
insisted that a man who would let the crushed leaves and
the mangled stemlets steep in the finished decoction would
put scorpions in a baby's bed. And as for the dash of nutmeg
which some barbarians insf~t on sifting across the top of
the glass - well, down our way we've always had a theory
that the Civil War was not brought on by Secession or Slav-
ery or the State's Rights issue. These matters contributed to
the quarr~l, but there y.ras a deeper reason. It was brought
on by some Yankee coming down South and putting nut-
meg in a julep. So our folks just up and left the Union .flat.
  Some expert practitioners insist on Rye as the basic motif.
Practically all Marylanders, many Virginians and Carolin-
ians, New Yorkers and New Englanders and a few Ten-
nesseeans hold this doctrine as sanctified. The majority of
Kentuckians, the folk of Chicago, the middle and far west,
                             19
Texans, Missourians and Louisianians swear by holy Bour-
 bon, but all the deft technicians, wheresoever found, agree
 that the liquor must be old, mellow whiskey - the bland-
 est in its savor, the richest in its perfume, the most linger-
ing in its softly-expiring after-aroma.
    In the name of the julep I have seen high crimes and
 .flagrant misdemeanors committed. In one Corn Belt city,
 which I shall not name here because probably it's enough
 ashamed of itself already, I have stood in horror and with
 seared eye-balls have seen a julep converted into a harsh
 green tea by the sacrilegious use of peppermint sprigs -
 not mint, peppermint! But if one's fancy inclines that way
, ,,w hy not just swallow a mothball and be done with it?
    Along the Eastern Seaboard - north of Baltimore, of
    course, because they know better there - I have been
    affronted by an architectural monstrosity, containing such
 foreign substances as flavoring extracts, canned goods,
 artificial coloring, grated cinnamon, and almost anything
 else that wasn't nailed down. Any person who would call
 that a julep -   and these savages actually did -   would be
  ...       ~


 sufficiently ignorant to think Cincinnati is a new form of
 chewing g um. And once, in Farther Maine, a criminal mas-
 queradin g as a barkeeper at a summer hotel, reared for
 me a strange structure that had nearly everything in it
 except the proper constituents of a julep. It had in it sliced
                               20
pineapple, orange peel, lemon juice, pickled peaches, sundry
other fruits and various berries, both fresh and preserved;
and the whipped-up white of an egg, and for a crowning
atrocity a flirt of allspice across that expanse of pallid
meringue. When I could in some degree restrain my weep-
ing, I told hi!Il things. "Brother," I told him, between sobs,
"brother, all this needs is a crust on it and a knife to eat it
with, and it would be a typical example of the supreme
effect in pastry of your native New England housewife's
breakfast table. But, brother," I said, "I didn't come in here




for a pie," I mentioned a julep; and you, my poor erring
brother, you have done :_~is to me! Go," I said, "go and sin
no more or, at least, sin as little as possible."
  For myself I like best the New Orleans julep and the
Kentucky julep of which latter, however, there are at least
three standard versions. I was present in a New Orleans
club on a historic time when a very prominent Wall Street
banker, who had come down there to celebrate M ardi Gras
                             21
and had stayed over to put on a little private Mardi Gras of
his own, was introduced to the genuine article in the line of
a Creole julep, Carnival style. You should have witnessed
what a magic transformation it was that stole over that man.
At the outset he seemed but poor material to work on, too.
For he was a typical Wall Street investment banker -      had
an eye in his head like an undertaker's night bell, and a jaw
like a clamped wolf-trap, and, so I would suspect, thought
of the future only in terms of thirty, sixty, and ninety days.
Further to show you just how conservative he was: he was
almost the last stand of the North American side-whisker,
now, alas, practically an extinct species, along with the for-
bearing plush ear-muff, the red woolen pulse warmer, the
great auk, and the Ozark sulphur-rumped jujupecker.
  After his first helping of julep he went right out in the
open, and said that although he came of old Puritan stock
from up in the interior of Massachusetts, he was proud to
take. this opportunity of stating that his people always had
been very strong Southern sympathizers, and to this good
day kept a steel engraving of Robert E. Lee hanging in the
fr~nt hall.°'Following the next replenishment, he requested
that somebody be so kind as to take him riding in a barouche
along the old bayou so he could harken to the mocking-bird
warbling in the magnolia tree and watch the moonlight
sifting through the lace-like tracery of the Spanish mosses.
                             22
After the third of these insidious liquid knickknacks had
kissed his lips and slid down him, he began dozing, only
rousing to say he'd like very much to break a fifty-dollar bill,
provided he was absolutely sure they'd give him all his
change in Confederate money. His mood changed then, and
when I left h~ had just offered to whip any damn-Yankee
in the house.




ArER               all I reckon though that my faith, ever
since my adolescence, has been bedrocked in the Kentucky
julep. I used to like to watch my uncle make one -             a
grizzled, unreconstructed, .veteran gunner-officer he was,
one-time chief of artillery on Breckinridge's staff and fairly
active in Johnston's Army - until Johnston ran out of
Army. He always held that the best mint grew on the grave
of a Confederate brigadier so that the congenial essences
of the slumbering warrior's soul might steal up through
the sod to whisper to···the tender roots of that fronded
greenery waving above, while he awaited the bugle for
Eternity's roll-call.
  I wonder whether any mint grows on the mound where
my uncle sleeps? I hope so. Anyhow, may he rest in peace
- and he will, if Over There he can find somebody to
                              23
"
I




    -   a majesti~ rite, a solemn ceremonial
                        24
listen while he cusses out General William Tecumseh
Sherman.
   He was one of your old school julepists, this uncle of
 mine. With him building a julep was a majestic rite, a
 solemn ceremonial, and going about the preparations, he
 was every bit as serious as a grand lodge funeral. He lifted
 the spoon with a ritualistic gesture. There was something
pontifical in his very approach to the sugarbor"'l. The side-
board became a high altar, the demijohn a sacred vessel.
   But presently, as he fussed and manipulated; as the snowy
rime formed on the silver goblet, and the ice tinkled like
sweet small temple bells, poetry entered into the worship-
ful proceeding - poetry and romance and snatches of
bygone .visions. You caught the plunk of the banjo and
the melancholy throatiness' of some Afric chant drifting
from a whitewashed log-cabin across damask tobacco-patch
and shimmering hemp-field; you seemed to behold the
cardinal ~ird, weaving in and out, like some living bright
shuttle, through the ~oof of the hackberry's foliage; you
glimpsed a pretty girl with a moss-rose at her breast and
a dimple in her cheek, where she leaned against a porch
pillar of an old red-brick homestead set on the crest of a
rolling hill; you watched the fat cows splashing in the shady
creek, and waved to a thoroughbred colt cavorting in a
knee-deep pasture, and nodded to an old black stable-boss
                            25
half asleep in his shade-dappled dooryard; and you sent
your best wishes after a sunburnt youngster on a single-
footin' boss racking down a sandy road for to see his
true love.




  Oh, vanished lady! Oh, darky music! Oh, my Old Ken-
tucky Home!




IT    took my uncle a full twenty minutes of measuring
and blending and stirring and decorating, to fabricate your
julep for you. And by that time your tongue hung down
on your chest like a pink plush necktie, and your mouth
; atered until no longer could you control your own ripa-
rian rights, and if, instead of being about the most glamor-
ous mi;:cture that ever was mixed, that which, with a courtly
bow from the hips he now bestowed upon you, had been


                                                                l
an infusion of poison-ivy juice and old rubber galoshes,
                             28
nevertheless you'd have drunk it and you'd have liked it!
  This revered uncle of mine had his own ideas but, gen-
erally speaking, he followed the formula of one of the old
masters, the late Judge J. Soule Smith who lived - while
he did live, which was a long time ago - up in Lexington.
Now, Judge Smith was both a monarch among mixologists
and a sweet singer in Israel. When he cleared his voice and
twanged on his harp -     but wait; let me quote to you his
remarks upon this illustrious topic. Here, verbatim, is the
way h~ poured the language forth:
  "In the Blue Grass there is a softer sentiment -   a gentler
soul. There where the wind makes waves of the wheat and
scents itself with the aroma of new-mown hay, there is no
contest with the world outside. On summer days when
from his throne the great s~n dictates his commands, one
looks forth across broad acres where the long grass falls
and rises as the winds may blow it. He can see the billowy
slopes, f~~ off, each heaving as the zephyrs touch it with a
caressing hand. Sigh of the earth, with never a sob - a
tender sigh, a lover's touch, she gives the favored land.
And the moon smiles at her caressing, and the sun gives
benediction to the lovers. Nature and earth are one -
married by the wind and sun and whispering leaflets on
the happy trees.
  "Then comes the zenith of man's pleasure. Then comes
                          29
-   where Bourbon and mint are lovers
                 30
the julep - the mint julep. Who has not tasted one has
lived in vain. The honey of Hymettus brought no such
solace to the soul; the nectar of the gods is tame beside it.
It is the very dream of drinks, the vision of sweet quaffings.
The Bourbon and the mint are lovers. In the same land they
live, on the s<1;me food are they fostered. The mint dips its
infant leaf inco the same stream that makes the Bourbon
what it is. The corn g rows in the level lands through which
small stream~ meander. By the brook-side the mint grows.
As the 1ittle wavelets pass, they glide up to kiss the feet of
the growing mint, and the mint bends to salute them.
Gracious and kind it is, living only for the sake of others.
Like a woman's heart it gives its sweetest aroma when
bruised. Among the first ,t p greet the spring, it comes.
Beside the gurgling brooks that make music in the fields,
it lives and thrives. When the bluegrass begins to shoot its
gentle sprays toward the sun, mint comes, and its sweetest
soul drinks at the cryst~l brook. It is virgin then. But soon
it must be married to old Bourbon. His great heart, his
warmth of temperametlt, and that affinity which no one
understands, demands the wedding. How shall it be? Take
from the cold spring some water, pure as angels are; mix
it with sugar till it seems like oil. Then take a glass and
crush your mint within it with a spoon -     crush it around
the borders of the glass and leave no place untouched.
                             31
Then throw the mint away - tt is a sacrifice. Fill with
cracked ice the glass; pour in the quantity of Bourbon which
you want. It trickles slowly through the ice. Let it have time
to cool, then pour your sugared water over it. No spoon is
needed; no stirring allowed - just let it stand a moment.
Then around the brim place sprigs of mint, so that the one
who drinks may find taste and odor at one draft.
  "Then, when it is made, sip it slowly. August suns are
shining, the breath of the south wind is upon you. It is
fragrant, cold and sweet -     it is seductive. No maiden's
kiss is tenderer or more refreshing, no maiden's touch could
be more passionate. Sip it and dream - you cannot dream
amiss. Sip it and dream- it is a dream itself. No other land
can give so sweet solace for your cares; no other liquor
soothes you in melancholy days. Sip it and say there is no
solace for the soul, no tonic for the body like old Bourbon
whiskey."
  After that rhapsody I'm afraid anything else in the line
of prescriptions must seem sort of flat-like and tame; still
shall I do my best with recipes, which follow now. I would
call the lis; a tolerably complete one, but make no profession
that it is all-embracing, all-comprehensive, because the sup-
posedly..faithful scout I sent out for the last batch, has been
strangely missing for some days now. We have asked the
good monks of St. Bernard to hunt for him, but he is still
                              32
lost and with him, I fear me, a few of the lesser known
medleys.
   So much for that. With your approval, we will now go
into our shorter dance numbers, leading off with cocktails.
   But first, with your indulgence, I should like to present
to you on the .following pages what I believe is both a brief
and interesting story of Frankfort Distilleries, Incorporated,
for whom I . have the pleasure to pen these lines.




                             33
-   when Paul Jones was young
             34
                   A M E R I CA'S

LARGEST                       INDEPENDENT

DISTILLING                        ORGANIZATION




I  N th,e Spring of 1865, a lieutenant of a Virginia Regiment of
     the Confederate Army turned homeward from the Civil War
     battlefields to find his house in ruins and his family destitute.
His family's wealth which before the war had been considerable had
been invested in Confederate bonds and was gone. In Georgia this
Virginia soldier, together with his father, one Paul Jones, then 66
years old, began making whiskey. Prior to the Civil War the Jones
family had lived in Lynchburg, Virginia. At the time when Sherman
began his march "from Atlanta to the Sea" General Lee ordered
the young lieutenant and his brother, a colonel, to Georgia in an
attempt to ~heck Sherman's advance. The elder Paul Jones moved
from Lynchburg to Atlant;_ to be near his family. In a battle not far
from Atlanta, the colonel "'.~s killed. It is his son, then a boy of five,
who is the head of Frankfort Distilleries today.
   To the first brand of whiskey produced was given the name of
the founder of this company, Paul Jones - and the name, too, of
his son who had died in the war. Through the years the popularity
of this whiskey spread - first through the South, then throughout
the country.
   Late in the 19th century the Paul Jones Square Dance was named
                                   35
  for it and the whiskey became even more famous.
     In 1886 the Jones family decided that Kentucky was better suited
  to fine whiskey making and they removed their growing business
  from Atlanta to Louisville. They brought out more brands and
  acquired others, among them Four Roses, one of America's most
  celebrated whiskies.
    When Paul Jones the founder of the company died, his son and
  grandson carried on. Today, the third and fourth generation of the
  family control Frankfort Distilleries - a record of family tradition
  which probably has no parallel among the large distilling companies
  in America today.
     During Prohibition Frankfort added still further to its prestige.
   Operating under one of the seven distilling permits issued by the
   government, it supplied a large part of the medicinal whiskey pro-
,, duced and consumed in the country. In one year, more than 20,000
 ' physicians purchased Frankfort whiskies for office use. One Frankfort
   brand, Antique, became known as the finest medicinal whiskey made.
     When Repeal came, Frankfort was ready with two plants in Ken-
  tucky and two in Maryland. Possessed of unusual whiskey-making
  experience, Frankfort had established at Louisville one of the first
  whiskey research laboratories in America. H ere a complete miniature
  distillery had been built and hundreds of whiskey-making experi-
  ments had been conducted. Through these experiments, Frankfort had
  gained much knowledge of the exact science of distillation. It had
  J so proved~conclusively that the traditional "sour mash" method of
  distilling, by which its whiskies have always been produced, is the
  only way great whiskies can be made. And Frankfort had learned,
  too, that when it comes to aging whiskey, there is no substitute for
  Father Time and charred oak barrels - that in no other way can
  whiskey be mellowed into rich, ripe smoothness.
                                    36
        Whiskey-making is still more an arc than a science - still largely
     a matter of family formulae and inherited skill. The men who per-
     form the key operations in Frankfort's distilleries are, almost without
     exception, men who have been brought up in their respective i<:>bs.
     And in many cases, they are men whose fathers and grandfathers
     performed these same operations before chem.
        In every droP. of whiskey that Frankfort Distilleries produce, there
     is pride of craftsmanship. An independent company controlled by the
     grandson and great-grandson of its founder, it can and does zealously
     guard the whiskey-making tradition and skill gained from four gen-
     erations of distilling experience.
        During prohibition, Frankfort sold only through legal channels.
     So far as is known, no Frankfort whiskey was ever bootlegged.
     Frankfort emerged from that trying period with the respect and
     approval of every governmental inspecting and regulating authority.
        Today, Frankfort follows this same rigid policy. It sells its pro-
     ducts only through legal outlets.,For Frankfort believes that whiskey-
     good whiskey-has a rightful place in the world. It will bend every
     effort to see that its whiskey is sold legitimately and used temperately.


            THE          FRANKFORT                        PACK

                           The E!ankforc Pack - patented and used only
                           by Frankfort Distilleries - is probably the most
                           important invention in the history of whiskey
                           packaging. It is undoubtedly one big reason why
                           Frankfort whiskies came through prohibition
                           without a single bootleg blot upon them.
                             For this tin-top-and-bottom carton makes tam-
                           pering or adulteration impossible. The bottle
                                       37




I~
within cannot be removed without destroying the carton. So if this
carton is intact, you can be sure the whiskey you buy is the same fine,
mellow liquor placed in the bottle by Frankfort at its bottling plants.
  On the center pages of this book are pictured Frankfort's principal
whiskies. Others are listed on later pages. Look for these brands at
your dealer's - ask for them at your favorite hotel, club or cafe !



MEASUREMENTS                                   and         ACCESSORIES
                               In all recipes given herein:

     A pony equals a 1 oz. liqueur glass.             Absinthe is not legal in the United
  A jigger equals a 1 \/2 oz. whiskey               States. But Pernod; which is Absinthe
glass. (Before prohibition, a whiskey               with the questionable ingredients elim·
glass held 2 ozs., so if you want to be             inated, may be had. So where a recipe
generous, use a 2 oz. jigger.)                      calls for Absinthe, we have substituted
                                                    the legal Pernod.
   A g/au means a wine glass holding
'3to 4 ozs.                                           Where a recipe calls for Rum, we
   It will be noted that some of the recipes        advise using the white variety which is
direct that the mixture be stirred, not             especially adapted for mixed drinks.
shaken. The reason is simple . The only               For really skillful mixing, the properly
function of ice in most cocktails is to
                                                    equipped serving pantry or home bar
cool the drink. If a shaker is used, the            should contain the· following articles:
ice melts too fast, and the drink becomes
thin. So in making such cocktails. use a               Corkscrew, with a long, sharp shank
mixing glass and spoon.                             which draws the cork gently but firmly
   The " "syrup" called for in some recipes         without tearing it ; cocktai l shaker; mix-
is a simple syrup made by boiling sugar             ing glass; long-handled silver spoon, for
in water. Sugar may be substituted for              stirring; strainer; lemon and orange
syrup in such cases. But the zealous mixer          squeezer; lime squeezer; ice bag and
will prepare some syrup and keep it                 mallet ; wooden pestle; bitters dasher, or
bottled for use. -                                  dasher top for bitters bottle.




                                               38
           •     COCKTAILS                                           •
                   Remarks in italics by Irvin S. Cobb
ALEXANDER:     ¥.i Paul Jones Four Star Gin, ¥.i Creme de Cacao, ¥.i Sweet
Cream. Shake well with cracked ice and strain. Alexander must have been
a ladies' man, for this is certainly a ladies' drink.

RUM: 1 jigger Cuban-type Rum, juice of 1 Lime, 2 dashes Grenadine. Shake
well with cracked ice and strain. More popular in Cuba than revolutions.

BLINKER:     1 jigger Paul Jones or Four Roses Whiskey, % jigger Grapefruit
Juice, 14 jigger Grenadine. Shake well in cracked ice and strain. Try it and
you'll know where ii gels its name.




BLUE BLAZER: Use 2 large" silver mugs, with handles. Into one mug put 1
glass Paul Jones or Antique Whiskey; into the other mug, put 1 glass boiling
water. Ignite the whiskey and· while blazing, mix both ingredients by pouring
them from one mug to the other four or five times. Sweeten with 1 teaspoon
Powdered Sugar and serve with piece of Lemon Peel. This invention of the
great Jerry Thomas, the most illustrious of American barkeepers, is induded
for the sake of the rewrd, with the admonition that no amateur should attempt
to make it unless first he takes the precaution of turning in a fire-alarm because
unless good old Trnck Six arrives promptly on the scene he is likely lo find him-
self burning several hours with a rlear blue flame, like an afrohol stove.

BRONX : 1h Paul Jones Four Star Gin, % French Vermouth, % Italian Ver-
                                       39
mouth,% Orange Juice. Shake well with cracked ice and strain. History credits
Johnny Solon, of the old JIValdorf, with inventing this famous number.

CHAMPAGNE: 1 lump Sugar, 1 dash Angostura Bitters, 1 piece Lemon Peel,
1 cube of ice. Fill up with Champagne. And don't let 'em dump a lot of fruit
in it for you.

CLOVER CLUB:     % Paul Jones Four Star Gin, % Grenadine, % Lime Juice, .
white of 1 Egg. Shake well with cracked ice and strain. Born at the Bellevue-
Stratford in Philadelphia, dnd named for a club of legal and literary lights
who used to meet there.


COMMODORE: 1 teaspoon Syrup, 2 dashes Orange Bitters, Juice of 1h Lime
or ~ Lemon, 1 glass Paul Jones or Four Roses Whiskey. Shake well with
cracked ice and strain. !IVorthy of Commodore Paul Jones, who didn't invent
it. He preferred his liquor straight.


<:;ROW:  % Antique or Four Roses Whiskey, 1h Lemon Juice, 1 dash Grena-
dine. Stir well with cracked ice and strain. You' II crow, all right.


DAIQUffil: 11h jiggers Cuban-type Rum, Juice of 1 Lime, 1h teaspoon Powdered
Sugar, a little Pineapple Juice. Shake well with cracked ice and strain into
saucer champagne glass filled with finely shaved ice. This is the recipe used
in the Florida Bar at Havana, Cuba. The third edition of this particular series
should be served with a wheelchair.


DE RIGEUR:    % Paul Jones or Four Roses Whiskey, 1h Grapefruit Juice,
1 teaspoon Honey. Shake well with cracked ice and strain. A Prohibition
inve~tion. I don:.; go for it.



DIXIE WHISKEY: 4 glasses Paul Jones or Four Roses Whiskey, ~ teaspoon
Angoscura Bitters, 1h teaspoon Curacao, 2 teaspoons Creme de Memhe, 2
small teaspoCins of Sugar. Shake well in cracked ice and strain. (This recipe
serves six.) From long and vivid experience, I can vouch for this one.

DUBONNET:     1h Dubonnet, 1h Paul Jones Four Star Gin. Stir with cracked
                                      40
 ice, strain and add twist of Lemon Peel. One of the world's best appetize1·s.
 I heartily endorse it.

ED DEXTER:        % glass Four Roses or Paul Jones Whiskey, 2 dashes Curacao.
 Stir well in ice, strain and serve with twist of lemon and orange peel. Named
 for a since1·e drinker and recommended only for s11ch.

FRENCH 75:      % Paul Jones Four Star Gin, 11.i Lemon Juice, 1 teaspoonful
Powdered Sugar. J,>our into champagne glass containing cracked ice and fill
with Champagne. I had my first of these in a d11go11t in the Argonne. I
co11ldn't tell whether a shell or the drink hit me.

JACK ROSE : % Lime Juice, % Grenadine, % Applejack. Shake with cracked
ice and strain. So named because its color is that of the f acq11emot Rose.

MAMIE TAYLOR:       Juice of 1h Lime, 1 jigger Paul Jones or Four Roses
Whiskey. Pour into call glass, add some cracked ice and fill up with Ginger ale.
JPhen this drink was invented, early in the cent11ry, James Gordon Bennett
ran the recipe in the "New York H erald," stating that he considered it most
decidedly news. H e was right - it was not only news, it was good news.

MANHATTAN (DRY):         % Four Roses or Paul Jones Whiskey, 11.i Italian
Vermouth, dash of Angoscura Bitters.• Stir well with cracked ice, strain, and
serve with Cherry. One of Ame1·ica's greatest contrib11tions to civilization.
If yo11 like your Manhattan still dryer, rnbstit11te French Vermo11th for Italian,
and twist of Lemon Peel instead of Cherry. If recipe given is too dry for yo11,
make the drink half and half, whiskey and Italian Vermo11th.

MARTINI (D~W l: % Paul Jones Four Scar Gin, 1h French Vermouth, 1 dash
Orange Bitters. Stir well with -cracked ice, strain and serve with Olive. If you
prefer your M artini less dry, leave our the bitters and use half gin, one-fourth
French and one-fourth Italian Vermouth. This, it goes without saying, is the
q11een of all cocktails.

MOUNTAIN: White of 1 Egg, 1h Paal Jones or Four Roses Whiskey, % Lemon
Juice, l,i Italian V ermouth, % French Vermouth. Shake well with cracked ice
and strain. I' ve bro11ght more than one Mahomet to the Mountain.

OLD-FASHIONED WHISKEY: One-half piece Sugar, 2             dashes Angoscura
Bitters, 11h jiggers Paul Jones or Four Roses Whiskey, 1 slice Orange, 1 slice
Lemon, 1 slice Pineapple, 2 dashes Curacao. Muddle sugar and bitters with
pestle. Add cube of ice, whiskey and Curacao and decorate with fruit. This
                                      41
cocktail was created at the Pendennis Club in Louisville in honor of a famo11s
old-fashioned Kentucky Colonel. I claim it was worthy of him.




ORANGE BLOSSOM: 11h jiggers Paul Jones Four Star Gin, juice of 1h Orange.
Stir well with cracked ice and strain. This was invented at the old Waldorf
to honor a visiting Irish poet. He never got to his dinner.


ORIENTAL: 1h Paul Jones or Four Roses Whiskey, ~ Italian Vermouth,
% Curacao, % Lime Juice. Shake well with cracked ice and strain. Then
grab a shawl and go into your dance.


PINK LADY:      White of 1 Egg, 1 tablespoon Grenadine, 11h jiggers Paul
Jones Four Star Gin. Shake well with cracked ice and strain. Named for the
famou .r operetta.


RYE WHISKEY: 1 dash Angostura Bitters, 4 dashes Syrup, 1 glass Paul Jones
or Four Roses Rye. Stir well with cracked ice, strain and serve with Cherry.
This is the daddy of all whiskey cocktails.


SAZERAC: Dissolve 1 lump of Sugar in a teaspoonful of Water. 1 dash
Peychaud Bitters, 1 dash Pernod, 1 jigger Paul Jones or Four Roses Whiskey.
Stir well with cracked ice, strain and squeeze Lemon Peel on top. Some
people think this"' cocktail is the most important thing that has occuned in
New Orleans since Andrew Jackson licked the British there and certainly since
the Mafia riots. Conrnme too many of these cocktails and you'll think the riot-
ing has broken out all over again. But taken in reason - oh ;oy, oh rapture!
                                       42
 S. G.: 1 teaspoon Grenadine, lf.i Paul Jones or Four Roses Whiskey, lf.i Lemon
 Juice, lf.i Orange Juice. Shake well with cracked ice and strain. The "S. G."
 slands for that famous Bl"itish regiment, the Scots Guards, who firsl designed
 I his cocktail. It is easy to identify a retired olficer of the ScoJs Guards. Jusl
 look for an elderly ge11tleman of military carriage, wish an iron-gray musJache
 and a breath like a hoJ mince pie.




SIDECAR: lf.i Lemon Juice, % Cointreau, lf.i Brandy. Shake well with cracked
ice and strain. One of America's best loved compounds.
                                            I'
STINGER:    % White Creme de Menthe, % Brandy. Shake well with cracked
ice and strain. JJV bile classified as a cocktail, this is really an after-dinner
drink, served in place of a liqueur.

SWISS FAMILY: 2 dashes Pernod, 2 dashes Angostura Bitters, % French
Vermouth, % Four•Roses or Paul Jn.oes Whiskey. Stir well in ice and strain.
Get Chris, of East 45th Street, New York, Jo make you one of these.


WARD 8 : 1 teaspoon Grenadine,      *
                                    Orange Juice, 14 Lemon Juice, % Paul
Jones or Four Roses Rye Whiskey. Shake well with cracked ice and strain.
This drink is especially popular in Boston where it ol"iginated. Bostonians
over-indulging in same, find the crooked streets of Jheir city beautifully
adapted for going home.


WHISKEY SPECIAL : ( 6 people) 3 glasses Paul Jones or Four Roses Whiskey,
2 glasses French Vermouth, % glass Orange Juice, dash of Nutmeg. Shake
well with cracked ice, strain and serve with an Olive. JP-hen the above six
                                      43
people begin to look like twelve people, it is then time to q11it serving this
entrancing little n11mber,



            •     HIGHBALLS                                         •
WlllSKEY HIGHBALL: To 1 cube of ice add drink of any Frankfort Distilleries
Rye, or Bourbon Whiskey and fill up with carbonated water. Add small piece
of Lemon Peel if desired. The standard bevet'age of the Wes tern World.

GINGER ALE HIGHBALL: Made as above, using any Frankfort Distilleries
Rye or Bourbon Whiskey and using ginger ale instead of carbonated water.
Personally, I dislike to see the taste of fine whiskey J111lied by ginger ale.




POKER HIGHBALL: Put three lumps of ice in each of four 24-oz. glasses.
Divide a quart of Paul Jones or Four Roses Whiskey among the four glasses
and fill with carbonated water. Many's the fl11sh I've caught on these.



                   •     J U       L E P S                •
The Mint Julep. is the most widely discussed and most debated recipe in the
whole realm of mixed drinks. It is almost impossible to find two experts who
agree on the way it should be made, and co recommend a certain method is
inevitably to bring down on your head the wrath of some other julep school.
However, may we say that these two recipes have proved exceedingly popular?
                                     44
             ORIGINAL KENTUCKY MINT JULEP : Put 12 sprigs Fresh Mint in bowl,
             covered with Powdered Sugar and just enough water to dissolve the sugar,
             and crush with wooden pestle. Place half the crushed mint and liquid in the
             bottom of a crackled glass tumbler, or in sterling silver or pewter tankard.
             Fill glass half full of finely crushed ice. .Add rest of crushed mint and fill
             remainder of glass with crushed ice. Pour in Four Roses or Paul Jones Whiskey
             until glass is brimming. Place in ice-box for at least an hour (preferably two or
             three hours - if you can wait that long). Decorate with sprigs of mint
             covered with powdered sugar when ready to serve.
             GEORGIA MINT JULEP: 4 sprigs Fresh Mint, 1h tablespoon Powdered Sugar,
             11h jiggers Four Roses or Paul Jones Whiskey. Place mint, sugar and whiskey
             in glass, fill with crushed ice and stir gently until glass is frosted. Decorate
             with sprigs of mint ....'... and !larl singing "Dixie."


                                     •    S 0        U R S              •
             WHISKEY SOUR : Juice of 1h Lemon, 1h teaspoon Powdered Sugar, 1 jigger
            Antique or Four Roses Whiskey. Shake well with cracked ice, strain into a
            Delmonico glass, add a little carbonated water, and decorate with fruit if
            desired. This is one of 1he world's grandesl pick-me-ups.


                             •       RICKEYS                                    •
            GIN RICKEY: Juice of 1h Lime, 1 jigger Paul Jones Four Star Gin. Put 1
            cube of ice in glass, add Lime Juice and Rind of Lime, and Gin. Fill with
            carbonated water and stir. Invented in Shoemaker's Cafe, Washington, D. C.,
            during a hot spell' in the early par: of the century, and named for Col. Joe
            Rickey, an old-time Washington character.
            WHISKEY RICKEY: Same as Gin Rickey, using any Frankfort Rye or Bourbon
            Whiskey instead of Gin.


                                 •       F I Z Z E S                        •
            DERBY FIZZ: 1 jigger Four Roses or Paul Jones Whiskey, 5 dashes Lemon
            Juice, 1 teaspoon Powdered Sugar, 1 Egg, 3 dashes Curacao. Shake well with
            cracked ice, strain into small highball glass, fill with carbonated water. Invented
            by an unknown hero one Derby Day in Louisville, some summers ago.
                                                   45




Ll'--·~--
GIN FIZZ: Juice of 1h Lemon, 1h tablespoon Powdered Sugar, 1 jigger Paul
Jones Four Star Gin. Shake well wich cracked ice, strain into small high-
ball glass, fill with carbonated water. Deservedly one of Amuica's most
popular concoctions.

GOLDEN FIZZ:     Same as Gin Fizz, adding Yolk of 1 Egg.

IMPERIAL HOTEL FIZZ:      lf.i Jamaica Rum, % Paul Jones or Four Roses
Whiskey, 4 dashes Lemon Juice, Juice of 1h Lime. Shake well with cracked
ice, strain into small highball glass, .fill with carbonated water. It takes an
expert to make it, but you couldn't spend your time better than in looking
for that expert.

MORNING GLORY FIZZ: Juice of 1h Lemon, 1h tablespoon Powdered Sugar,
white of 1 Egg, 2 dashes Pernod, 1 jigger Four Roses or Paul Jones Whiskey.
Shake well with cracked ice, strain into small highball glass, fill with car-
bonated water. A friend of mine once inse1·ted fotff of these Morning Glories
into himself with as many quick nervous mannerisms, and ardved at hi.f'
apartment at 5 :30 A. M., speaking an rmknown tongue and weai·ing a waite,.'s
a{'ron and a perfect stranger's hat. Later he claimed the language he had
used was Ancient Sanskrit,




NEW ORLEANS FIZZ:        Juice of 1h Lemon, 1h tablespoon Powdered Sugar,
white of 1 Egg, 1 jigger Paul Jones Four Star Gin, dash of Orange Juice,
1 tablespoon Sweet Cream. Shake well with cracked ice, strain into small
highball g ass, fill with carbonated water. This edifying delicacy o,.iginated
at the famous old Ramos bar in New Orleans. If you shake it as the ba1·-boys
at Ramos' do - for ten mini;tes - you've got something to write home
to the folks about. But quit while you can still write - some way this drink
seems to take right hold.

                                      46
 ROYAL FIZZ: Same as Gin Fizz, adding whole of 1 Egg.


 SILVER FIZZ: Same as Gin Fizz, adding White of 1 Egg. After four of these
 it is advisable to go to bed. P. S. -     Put handgrips on the bed.



            •      COLLINSES                                         •

The original Collins was the John Collins, made with either dry or Holland
Gin and named for a popular waiter at a restaurant called Lu1~mer's House
in Hanover Spr1are, London. When the d1·ink was made with Old Tom (or
sweetened) Gin, it was called a Tom Collins, which was a very good thing
because a f ejlow can still say "Tom Collins" q11ite distinctly long after he has
lost the ability to prono11nce, let us say s11ch a name as "Sissie Fitzsimmons"
without so11nding like a Roman candle getting ready to go off. Today, through
the changes wro11ght by Time, a Tom Collins is made with dry gin: while the
name "John Collins" is reserved f(lr the drink when made with Holland Gin.


TOM COLLINS: Juice of 1 Lime or 1h Lemon, 1 teaspoon Powdered Sugar,
I jigger Paul Jones Four Star Gin. Put ingredients in a call glass, add cube of
ice and fill wich Club Soda or other carbonated water. Stir.

JOHN COLLINS: Made as a Tom Collins, using Holland Gin.


TOM COLLINS, WHISKEY: 5 dashes Syrup, juice of 1 small Lemon, 1 glass
Four Roses or Paul Jones Whiskey. Put ingredients in call glass, add cube
of ice and fill with carbonated water. Stir. A delightful summer concoction.



                  •     DAISIES                               •

WHISKEY DAISY: Juice of 1h Lime and 14 Lemon, 2 dashes Grenadine, 2
dashes Carbonated Water, 1 jigger Antique or Paul Jones Whiskey. Use
silver mug, or highball glass~ put in above ingredients, fill with finely crushed
ice, scir until mug or glass is frosted, decorate with Fruit and Fresh Mint
                                      47
 and serve with straws. This drink was widely popular before Prohibition ; bnt
 died out drffing Volstead. It deserves a re-birth.

 GIN DAISY: Same as Whiskey Daisy, using Paul Jones Four Scar Gin instead
 of Whiskey.


                         •    F     I X        E S          •
  GIN FIX: 1 large teaspoon Powdered Sugar, juice of lh Lemon, 1 jigger
· Water, 1 glass Paul Jones Four Scar Gin. Pour into highball glass filled cwo-
  chirds full of shaved ice, stir and decorate with fruit. These will fix you up
  in no time.

 WHISKEY FIX: 1 large teaspoon Powdered Sugar, dissolved in a litcle water,
 juice of lh Lemon, 1 glass Paul Jones or Four Roses Whiskey. Pour into
 highball glass, filled two-thirds full of shaved ice, stir and decorate with fruit.
 I prefer this to its gin brother, but try 'em BOTH and decide for yourself.
 Only don't try 'em both at the same sitting.



                     •       S L I N              G     S       •

 GIN SUNG:     Dissolve 1 teaspoon of Sugar in a little water, 1 jigger Paul
 Jones Four ?car Gin, 1 lump of Ice. Puc in highball glass and fill with either
 plain or carbonated water. If served hoc, use Pilsener beer glass and sprinkle
 Nutmeg on cop. I'm not ve1-y familiar with this as yet. I MUST catch up 011
 my ba1· work!

 SINGAPORE SLING: Juice of 1Ji. Lemon, lh pony Paul Jones Four Scar Gin,
 1 pony Cherry Brandy. Shake well with cracked ice, strain and fill with
 carbonated water. Use highball glass. This comes to us frnm a famous club
 in Sin gapore.

 WHISKEY SLING:      Same as Gin Sl'ing, using Four Roses or Paul Jones
 Whiskey. If you're a b1·ed-in-the-barrel whiskey lover, I'm sure you'll prefer
 this number to its gin cousin.
                                         48
                   •   SMASHES                                 •

WHISKEY SMASH : Dissolve 1 lump of Sugar in a little Carbonated Water.
Add fou r sprigs of Fresh Mint and muddle slightly with wooden p estle.
Place 1 cube of Ice in glass and add 1 jigger of any Frankfort Rye, or Bourbon
Whiskey. Squeeze Lemon Peel, decorate with slice of O range and serve. Use
old-fas hioned cocktail glass. I had my first of these in Charleston, S. C., and
Providence p1·ese1·ve me, !'II have a lot more befo re I die.

GIN SMASH : Same as Whiskey Smash, using Paul J ones Four Star Gin
instead of W h iskey. T he1·e is as much diffe1·ence between good gin and the
bath-tub variety as thei·e is between finely distilled, aged whiskey and moon-
shine. Use Paul Jones Four Star Gin.



              •        COBBLERS                                    •
WHISKEY COBBLER : 1 teaspoon Powdered Sugar, 1 jigger Antique or Four
Roses W hiskey. Fill highball g lass half full of cracked ice, add sugar and
whiskey, sci r well and decorate with slices of O range and Pineapple. T his
will do things to you if you don't watch or1i.


                       •    F    L I P           S      •
WHISKEY FLIP: 1 Egg, 1 teaspoon Powdered Sugar, 1 jigger Paul J ones or
Four Roses W hiske'y. Shake well w.i:h cracked ice, strain into cocktail glass,
sprinkle Nutmeg on top. T his is especially recommended for one of those
days when the frost is on the pumpki!1_.

SHERRY FLIP: Same as Whiskey Flip, using Sherry instead of Whiskey.



               •       TODDIES                                •
WHISKEY TODDY : 1 teaspoon Sugar, 1h glass Water,         glass Four Roses
or Paul Jones Whiskey, 1 small lump of Ice. Put in toddy glass, sti r with a
spoon and serve. Ah! H ow this takes me back to my grandfather's knee!
                                     49
        •     H     0     T        DRINKS                            •
HOT WHISKEY TODDY: 1 piece of Sugar, 1 piece Cinnamon, 1 piece of
Lemon Peel, 4 Cloves, 1 jigger Paul Jones or Four Roses Whiskey. Dissolve
sugar in a little hot water, add other ingredients and fill with hot water.
I took my fi1'Jt of these to cure a cold. But why wait for a cold?




•   MILK                AND           EGG           DRINKS                  •
MILK PUNCH: 1 tumbler Sweet Milk, 1 tablespoon Powdered Sugar, 1 jigger
Antique or Four Roses Whiskey. Shake well with cracked ice, strain into
highball glass, and sprinkle Nutmeg on top. Some call this a tonic, but it's a
good luncheon beverage at any time. Especially after a hard night.

EGGNOG: 1 Egg, 1h tablespoon Powdered Sugar, 1 jigger Paul Jones or
Four Roses Whiskey, 1h tumbler Sweet Milk or Cream. Beat up white and
yolks separately. To beaten yolks, add sugar, whiskey and milk, stirring each
in separatt;\y. Then stir in beaten white, and serve with Nutmeg on top. Use
sherbet glass. What's Christmas or New Year's without an Eggnog ? II will
make any man feel like Santa Claus.

TOM AND JERRY: 1 Egg, 1/z jigger Jamaica Rum, 1 teaspoon Powdered
Sugar, % teaspoon Powdered Allspice, % pony Brandy. Mix together the
yolk of the egg, J amaica Rum, sugar and allspice, then add the white of the
egg beaten to a stiff froth, and the Brandy. Put a tablespoon of this mixture
in a glass, add 1 jigger of Brandy if desi red, and fill up with hot water or
hot milk.
                                      50
       (If served cold, use cold sweet milk.) Sprinkle Nutmeg on top. Th en give
       three long, musing cheers fo r Prnfessor Jerry Thomas, to whose ingenuity
       and wisdom we owe this gt·eatest of cold-weather compounds, and whose
       service to mankind is immortalized in its name.


                  These are the whiskies that Frankfort makes -

             FOlJR ROSES                        OLD BAKER

             PAUL JONES                         MEADVILLE

             ANTIQUE                            WHEELHOUSE

             SHIPPING PORT                      HONEY DEW

             WOLF CREEK                         OLD CABINET

             OLD OSCAR PEPPER                   OLD NECTAR

             OLD WILDERNESS                     OLD PIRATE

             MATTINGLY & MOORE                  SHANDON BELLS

             LUCKY STAR                         INDIAN TRADER

             OLD VELVET                        ' KERRY PATCH

             BROAD RIPPLE                       GALLANT KNIGHT

             KENTUCKY TRIUMPH                   DUFFY 'S MALT

                                         and
                             PAUL JONES FOUR STAR GIN




                                         51




1-..
                •   I   N   D   E X   •

                                          Page
COCKTAILS                                   39

HIGHBALLS                                   44

JULEPS                                      44

SOURS                                       45

RICKEYS                                     45

FIZZ ES                                     45

COLLINSES                                   47

DAISIES                                     47

Forns.                                      48

SLINGS                                      48

S MASHES                                   49

COBBLERS.                                  49

FLIPS .                                    49

TODDIES                                    49

.,.HOT DRINKS                             . 50

MILK AND EGG DRINKS                        50




                                          PRINTED : N U . S . A .
                       ,

F    RANKFORT is not one of these distilling
     companies that rushed in with Repeal.
   Frankfort has been making fine whiskies since
1865. Even during Prohibition, Frankfort operated,
under one of the seven medicinal liquor licenses
granted by the government. During this time,
Frankfort supplied a large part of all the medicinal
whiskey consumed in America, furnishing more
than 20,000 physicians with their office whiskey.
   Believing that sooner or later Prohibition would
be repealed, Frankfort also utilized this period to
establish one of the first distilling laboratories in
the United States. In this complete laboratory,
Frankfort conducted all kinds of whiskey-making
experiments- with the result that Frankfort proved
conclusively that the old-fashioned method which
it has always used produces the very finest whiskey.




PUBLISHED BY FRANKFORT
DISTILLERIES. INCORPORATED
              See Coupons Inside'
                  THE FRANKFORT PACK



        ...... Before any of the three Frankfort whiskies listed below
               leave our bottling plant, they are sealed in this exclu-
   sive Frankfort Pack, a tin-top-and-bottom carton that must be
   destroyed before the bottle within it can be removed.
      When you buy these whiskies at a store, be sure they are sealed
   in this Pack. Then you can be certain you are getting the same pure,
   high quality liquor that we placed in the bottle.          ·




  PAUL JONES                                        FOUR ROSES
A national favorite since I865                 Full-flavored, f ragrant as its name
                                 ANTIQUE
                 A smooth, mellow whiskey of sup erlative quality
