  POPULAR DRINKS
       RECIPES
         toasts




bv .
Magnus
Bredenbek
                                        \

    What Shall We                           \




            Drink?
  This question will perplex us all.
There are drinks for every occa
sion, and accepted ways of pre                  I   I

paring and serving them. At home,
at parties, at clubs, at banquets,
your most useful social accom
plishment—and assuredly your
most popular—will be your knowl
edge of
HOW TO MIX COCKTAILS.
HOW TO MAKE PUNCHES, "CUPS",
  FIZZES AND RICKEYS.
HOW TO MAKE JULEPS, NOCGS,
 FLIPS AND MISCELLANEOUS MIXED
how"a^nd when to serve wines.
   As the complete and authorita
tive book on drinking, this volume
contains in addition to innumerable
minor points of information.
A CHAPTER ON BEER. _ p .., » r K
CORDIAL RECIPES. APPLEJACK
a"?hTpter on correct class-
  WARE.
POPULAR TOASTS.                 ,
  The author of this book, a        -
mous newspaper editor,         ^'
mate terms with leading chefs
and drink experts
States and Europe. Here he p
sents the authoritative
will return to .hR.r ', h.WplRCR^
"plSforUibition. Far people
who look forward to
ment of the almost forgotten art
of drinking, this volume has been
prepared as a guide.
What Shall We Drink?
I   -




        \
WHAT SHALL
WE DRINK?
              The British Peter Arno
             COCKTAIL TIME
         A Picture Book for Grown-ups
               by STARR WOOD
 60 Illustrations     Picture Cover       Demy 4<o.
 Second Printing      7/6 net.
    A book that is now a household pet in many
                     families
          THE STAG AT EVE
      A Comic Picture Book for Grown-ups
                    Illustrations
 Fourth Printing     7/6 net.

        EVERYTHING'S ROSY
     54 Pretty Double Exposure Pictures
                by O. SOGLOW
Second Printing     7/6 net.       Demy dto.

   THE DRUNK'S BLUE BOOK
       by NORMAN ANTHONY
            Editor of"Baix.yb.oo"
                    Illustrated
                  by O.SOGLOW
A scandalous hilarious new novel that has set the
              whole world laughing
   THE CAUTIOUS AMORIST
or What Really Happened to Three Men and a
            Maid on a Desert Island
             Written and Illustrated
           by NORMAN LINDSAY
Eighth Thousand 7/6 net.
          Rejected by the Booh Society
            KISS AND TELL
              by LILLIAN DAY
                    Illustrated
Second Printing     3/6 net

 THE GREEN COCKTAIL BOOK
         by "JIMMY "(late of Giro's)
        Cloth Picture Jacket in Colours
                    2/- net.
T. Werner Laurie Ltd., 24 & 26 Water Lane, E.C.4




                                                      A
What Shall We Drink?

                Popular
     Drinks, Recipes and Toasts

                   By
        MAGNUS BREDENBEK




                 LONDON


      T. WERNER LAURIE LTD.
 COBHAM HOUSE, 24 & 26 WATER LANE, E.C.4

                  1934
i. iV'..
, ;I




           *


t V.


  ■    >




                      l>jOTE. The word "gum" frequently used in
               the volume is merely granulated or powdered sugar
               brought to a boil (but not allowed to boil) in enough
               water to make a moderately thick syrup




                                  Printed in the U.S.A.
                             Copyright and all rights reserved




                                                                       a1
                 Publisher's Note
    For thirty-five years the author of this volume has been a
newspaper man and editor, contacting life in all its myriad
phases and gathering a vast store of material on many sub
jects, upon which he has drawn with excellent effect in the
preparation of this authoritative work.
    He has interviewed scores of experts of the old day and the
new;experts, it need hardly be added,in the supremely social
art of mixing liquors. He presents formulas devised by the
most famous maitres-de-hotel and chefs here and abroad,
drinks honored by recognition as the favorites of America and
the Continent.
    His simplicity of style, his expHcit instructions, and his
warm, genial interest in the reader and the reader's problems,
clear up and make easily understandable a subject which has
become something of a lost art during the years of Prohibition.
His book will find a place on the friendly shelf of every host
and hostess, as a guide in the social accomplishment of mixing
drinks and serving them at the right time,in the right manner,
and with the right foods.
   To professional dispensers of the cup that cheers, this
book will prove an indispensable aid, since it combines
technical information with the simplicity desired by the
layman.
    To you all, hosts and professional hosts, and in a spirit
of real service, this book is offered with the confidence that all
good companions of the glass will appreciate its suggestions
and enjoy many a convivial hour in putting them to a test.
                 Here^s to the hostess! May she be hung,
              dravm and quartered! May she be hung with
          jewels, drawn in a coach and four, and quartered
          in a palace!"
                                                —^Anon.




f y'tJ




         i.      k'Y.r.w.4 j-
              Author's Foreword
    When Prohibition placed its stranglehold on our nation,
it doomed for more than thirteen years the real art and eti
quette of drinking.
   Books, articles, advertising and broadcasting concerning
liquor, and all formulas for mixing drinks once popular in all
branches of society, were placed under Federal ban.
   From the hands of law-abiding experts the hquor business
passed into the hands of novices from the underworld.
   The speakeasy and night club came along to replace the
legitimate dispensaries and to sell surreptitiously hquors and
needled beers of most questionable origins.
   Concoctions were served under titles never before known
to the drinking world. Most of these drinks were abominable,
mixed by men who did not know even the rudiments of the
art. They will pass into the oblivion whence their inventors
sprang. Gone is their influence over the drinking habits of a
nation which, before the World War, was headed for temper
ance and which was plunged by Prohibition not only into
intemperance, but into vicious excesses.
   America today must unlearn all the follies she was taught
in the name of Bacchus and must learn aU over again what
she has unlearned.
   My design, therefore, is not to encourage drunkenness—
we have had plenty of that during the heyday of boot
legging—but to guide drinkers of the new day back into the
safer channels of the old days;to make possible the safe home
mixing of delectable beverages; to promote temperate rather
than inordinate drinking; to help host and hostess with their
problems of what to serve, when to serve and how to serve the
now legal liquid refreshments of a re-emancipated America.
    And, as toasts always are in demand, I have compiled a
carefully selected potpourri of those which long have been
         considered the gems of the festive hour, gleaned from many
     sources. To these I have ventured to add some of my own
         creation.
         For convenience, these toasts have been placed at the end
     of this volume and will be found to cover almost any need.
            This combination of a drinking lexicon and toast-book for
         merry hours is, I believe, an innovation.
            My hope is that it will contribute to convivial enjoyment
     and that my drinking friends wiU remember—
                     God gave us the grape to use it.
                     Not to abuse it!
                                              Magnus Bkedenbek




                                         *    M




I   ^r
                     Contents
Chapter                                                 Page

          Author's Foreword                                S
     I- -How to Mix Cocktails                             9
    II- -How to Make Punches                              37
   III- -How to Make "Cups"                               64
    IV- -How to Make Fizzes .     . . . . . .             74
     V- -How to Make Rickeys                              80
    VI- -How to Make Juleps                               83
   VII- -How to Make Noggs                                88
  VIII- -How to Make Flips                                93
   IX- -How to Make Pousse Cafes                          95
    X- -Miscellaneous Mixed Drinks                        98
   XI     Applejack Specials (New up-to-date recipes) 119
   XII- -Red Wines—How and When to Serve Them            128
  XIII- -White Wines—How and When to Serve Them 134
  XIV- -Foods to Serve With Wines and Liquors       .    141
   XV- -Care of Wines and How to Drink Them.             145
  XVI- -The Beer Family—How to Make Your Own
            Supply and When to Drink It . . . .          148
 XVII- -Some Cordial Recipes                             154
XVIII- -Favorite Wine Making Recipes    .   .   .   .    159
  XIX- -Something of Liquor Glassware   . . . .          163
  XX- -General Observations                              171
  XXI- -Toasts                                           175
        Alphabetical Index                               205
I fY-^lfi
                           Chapter I

           How To Mix Cocktails
   W^HAT better start can a bon vivant ask of a book
than that it immediately tackle the mysteries of the cock
tail family?
   For the cocktail usually starts the meal as an appetizer,
and can be served most informally before the call to table or
more formally at table before the first course.
   So it has first place of honor in this hiunble effort to help
others solve the riddles of mixing its several varieties.
   May I suggest that you buy a graduate glass, showing on
its outside surface the hquid weights of one ounce,two ounces,
three,and four,and five ounces. The cost is insignificant. Or,
you might buy a "pony" glass of standard two-ounce capa
city, from which you may readily measure any ounce-mix
tures. Some call a "pony" a "jigger"; others call a "jigger"
half a "pony," or one ounce. In some sections a "jigger" is a
"stiff" drink.
   Let us, then, agreeing on a 2-ounce "pony," begin the
pleasant task of mixing a Manhattan, probably the most
popular member of the entire Cocktail family.
           MIXING A MANHATTAN FOR TWO
   First, have at hand a shaker containing cracked or cubed
ice sufficient to chill thoroughly the ingredients. Into this
pour a cocktail glass three quarters full of Rye Whisky
(don't use Scotch).
   Add an equal portion of Italian Vermouth (not the "dry"
type). Sweeten to taste with "gum". Into this mixture
squirt two dashes of Angostura Bitters. (If your bitters
bottle isn't equipped to use this dash method, measure out
not more than ten drops of its contents).
                                                                    f
10                                           What Shall We Drink?
    These are all the ingredients you need for a perfect Man
hattan Cocktail. Curacao or Absinthe dashes appear in many
formulas, but they are not necessary. Some persons add a bit
of lemon peel, but it were best left out.
    For the uninitiated, it might be well to explain that
"gum", a term that will be frequently used, is merely granu
lated or powdered sugar brought to a boil, but not allowed to
boil, in enough water to make a moderately thick syrup.
    And now that we have everything necessary in the shaker,
close it tightly and shake thoroughly, remembering that the
colder the cocktail the better its flavor.
     Pour into two cocktail glasses—(your guest's first, yours
second). Stab a Maraschino cherry with a toothpick and
place it in your guest's glass. Then stab another and place in
your own.
    The little rite of toasting each other now is in order—and
if your home-made Manhattan doesn't tickle the palate, add
zest to the appetite and make your meal more delightful, the
fault hes with your physical condition, not the cocktail.
    If you wish to make a single Manhattan,just take half the
ingredients, approximately a pony each of Rye and Ver
mouth, a dash of bitters and gum. But how many drink
alone of cocktails? If you wish to mix more than two, add
proportionate amounts of the ingredients. Some shakers can
hold up to two quarts.
   These same suggestions for one or many apply to all the
cocktails whose preparation will be discussed as we proceed.

       MIXING A MARTINI COCKTAIL FOR TWO
   Into the shaker prepared with ice as in the case of the
Manhattan pour three-quarters of a cocktail glass of sweet
gin. Add an equal amount of Italian or French vermouth.
Sweeten with "gum" to taste. Now add four dashes of
ORANGE bitters, approximately thirty drops.
   Close your shaker and shake vigorously until the contents
are thoroughly mixed and chilled.
Cocktails                                                    n
   Now pour into cocktail glasses and add to each of the two
drinks an ohve stabbed with a toothpick for convenience in
lifting out and eating after the drink has been imbibed. To
make one drink, use half the ingredients. To make more,
multiply them by the number of drinks you wish to make.

         MIXING A "DRY" MARTINI FOR TWO
   In the case of the dry Martini, the difference Ues in the
fact that you should use unsweetened gin to the amount of
three-quarters of a cocktail glass. Add the same amount of
DRY vermouth (not the sweeter type), either French or
Italian; then three dashes of orange bitters, about twenty-two
drops. To this add a slightly smaller amount of "gum" than
is used in the sweeter Martini.
    Now shake thoroughly, being sure your shaker is tight so
as not to spill. When chiUed and mixed thoroughly, pour into
two cocktail glasses and add a stabbed ohve.
   One drink requires only half the amount of each ingredi
ent. To make more than two, multiply the single portions by
the number of drinks you wish to make. Some prefer a dash
of Absinthe or Curacao in a Martini, but it's better left out.
   Usually this cocktail and its sweeter brother, and the
brandy cocktail, are preferred more by women than the Man
hattan; the Martini because of its gin content and the brandy
because it is less harsh to their taste than whisky.

       MIXING A BRANDY COCKTAIL FOR TWO
   Into your shaker, prepared with ice in cubes or chips, pour
three-quarters of a cocktail glass of brandy, preferably the
French, although any brandy will do, and two ounces of
Itahan Vermouth. Add "gmn" to taste.
   Then add two dashes of Angostura Bitters, not too gener
ously, though,lest the result be too bitter.
   It might be well to test with, say, fifteen drops first. If
you care for a bitterer flavor, add to suit. A thin shave of
lemon peel, with only the yellow part containing the lemon oil
12                                       What Shall We Drink?
shaved off, should be placed in the shaker to add a delicate
flavoring.
    Shake thoroughly and serve.
    Some persons like a bit of lemon rind added in the individ
ual glass, but it reaUy is not necessary. For a single cocktail,
take half the ingredients. For more than two, multiply the
single proportions by as many drinks as you wish to make.
                MIXING A GIN COCKTAIL
    The gin cocktail is a drmk which men and women alike
find delectable. To make one for two people is a simple
matter, indeed.
    Place in the ice treated shaker one cocktail glass of gin
and a half cocktail glass of dry Vermouth. Add "gum" to
suit taste. Then four dashes of orange bitters, or, say, a
teaspoonful. A bit of the yeUow rind of a lemon completes the
mixture, which should now be thoroughly shaken and chilled.
    Serve with an ohve, if you wish, or omit, if preferred.
   For a single cocktail use half the ingredients. For more
than two, multiply the single proportions by the number of
drinks you wish to make.
   Shakers are obtainable which provide for as much as two
quarts at one shaking, and this eases the burden of preparing
so many.
            MIXING A COCKTAIL A LA RITZ
   Into a shaker pour two ounces of gin, an ounce of pine
apple juice, an ounce of orange juice and the partly whipped
white of one egg. Shake thoroughly; serve in cocktaU glass.
Some folks vary this by using merely the orange juice or the
pineapple juice alone. Suit your own taste and pleasure.

     MIXING AN ORANGE BLOSSOM COCKTAIL
   This interesting cocktail can be so simply made thqt it
gives a host or hostess no trouble at all to serve even a crowd.
From the solitary cocktail to the largest quantity you may
need, the mixture is exactly the same.
Cocktails                                                   ^
    Use equal parts of gin and orange juice, or one of the many
brands of bottled orange beverages. Serve cold, and to each
drink add a dasb of Grenadine, or leave out the Grenadine
entirely. A bit of yellow lemon peel tweaked on top of each
glass is desirable.
            MIXING A TENNESSEE COCKTAIL
    Down Tennessee way, tbey mix this one with whisky,
either Rye, Scotch, Bourbon or Irish, using two ounces in
the shaker, adding one ounce of sweet Itahan Vermouth and
about a quarter teaspoon of orange bitters, and a thin slice of
lemon floating after the drink is thoroughly shaken and served
in a cocktail glass.

        MIXING A KNICKERBOCKER COCKTAIL
    This is an echo out of the pleasant past, when the Knicker
bocker, now converted into an oflBce building, was the gayest
of the gay hotels at 42d Street and Broadway. To mix the
Knickerbocker is a task of skill . Have plenty of ice in your
shaker, for it is best very cold. Now pour in three ounces of
Bacardi Rum, three-quarter ounce of orange juice, a quarter
teaspoon of raspberry syrup and of pineapple syrup, a tea
spoon of lemon,a dash of orange bitters and shake vigorously.
Pour into a cocktail glass.

              MIXING A BRONX COCKTAIL
   The Bronx Cocktail, strange to say, was invented in
Philadelphia, of aU places! There it might have remained in
obscurity had it not been for one Joseph Sormani, a Bronx
restaurateur, who discovered it in the Quaker City in 1905.
   The original recipe has been greatly distorted in the
course of years, but here's the original to guide you and to
compare with the other recipes being used:
   Four parts of gin, one part of orange juice and one part of
Italian Vermouth. Shake thoroughly in ice and serve. Now
that you know the REAL one, here's another
H                                      What Shall We Drink?
                    BRONX COCKTAIL
    Crush a slice of orange in a tumbler, add a dash of orange
bitters, two ounces of gin, a dash of "gum", two ounces of
Italian dry Vermouth. Shake and serve. And here's another
variation of
                    BRONX COCKTAIL
   Shake together a tablespoon of orange juice, two ounces of
rye whisky,two oimces of Italian sweet Vermouth, a dash of
Angostura Bitters and a dash of "gum." And, by the way of
stiU further variation, here's another method!

                    BRONX COCKTAIL
    Into a shaker pour the juice of one-quarter orange and
about a teaspoon of "gum." Now add an ounce and a half of
gin (dry or sweet), three-quarter ounce of Italian sweet Ver
mouth, three-quarter ounce French dry Vermouth and shake
vigorously in the iced container. Strain into cocktail glass.

    HOW TO MIX THE AMBER DREAM COCKTAIL
   Ice your shaker as usual and pour in two ounces of dry
gin, one ounce of dry Italian Vermouth, a half ounce Char
treuse, a dash of orange bitters, a half teaspoon of "gtun,"
Shake, and serve into cocktail glass.

      HOW TO MIX A CLOVER LEAF COCKTAIL
   Pom into shaker two ounces dry gin, juice of a whole lime
or a half lemon, the partly beaten white of one egg, and a
scant teaspoon of Grenadine. Shake well in ice and serve.

            MIXING A SIDE-CAR COCKTAIL
   The origin of the Side-Car Cocktail's name is shrouded in
the same obscurity veiling most of the cocktail names. I
have heard it explained as originating during the start of the
motorcycle era when the first side-car was attached for a
second passenger;it has been explained also as a sort of stirrup
cup drink, but instead of being a stirrup cup, it was served to
an automobilist beside his car just before starting a trip;
Cocktails                                                    ^
another version is that it was named as a side drink before
indulging in wine. But what difference does it make so long
as the drink is deUghtful?—and it is! Here's how to make it—
simple as rolhng off a log:
    Fill your cocktail glass one-third full of Cointreau, (or
Quantreau), one-third Cognac Brandy, one-third lemon juice.
Pour into iced shaker and mix thoroughly by shaking. Strain
into your cocktail glass and drink it.

 HOW TO MIX A PALM BEACH SPECIAL COCKTAIL
    Two ounces of dry gin go into your iced shaker, followed
by one ounce of Italian dry Vermouth, one ounce of grape
fruit juice (fresh fruit or canned), one teaspoon of "gum."
Shake well and strain into cocktail glass.

HOW TO MIX A DAIQUIRI OR DYKAREE COCKTAIL
    Shake in iced container three ounces dry gin, one ounce of
Dykaree, the juice of one lime or half a lemon, and one tea
spoon of "gum." After a vigorous mixiug, strain into cock
tail glass. Some spell Dykaree, Daiquiri.
       HOW TO MIX A FANCY SOUR COCKTAIL
    Into the shaker put juice of a half lemon, two ounces of
Maraschino cordial, three dashes of orange bitters and a dash
of Angostura bitters. Shake well and pour into cocktail glass.

    WASHINGTON MERRY-GO-ROUND COCKTAIL
   This drink, invented by Sam Blythe in a drink-mixing
contest among famous authors and writers, was awarded the
grand prize on December lo, 1933, as the various drinks were
tested. Sam, you must know, is one of the most popular
political writers in the national capital, appears frequently in
The Saturday Evening Post and other great periodicals, and
knows his liquors. So his recipe is included for your own trial
of it. Here's how to mix one of his "Washington-Merry-Go-
Round" Cocktails:
16                                   What Shall We Drink?
    One-sixth French Vermouth, one-sixth Italian Vermouth,
two-thirds dry gin, mixed in a taU, ice-filled glass. One olive
and a pinch from a lemon peel completes the mixture. Sam
figures you'll use discretion in measuring the ingredients.

        OLD-FASHIONED APPLEJACK COCKTAIL
    This one was contributed by J. P. McEvoy, one of
America's foremost humorists. I beheved he was spoofing,
but when I tried one of his Old-Fashioned Applejack Cock
tails, I felt like awarding him more than a zinc-lined pair of
spats. Here's the mirth-provoking mixture:
    One teaspoon of sugar, one-half lemon with juice, squeezed
on a "jigger" of Applejack, and ice water. A "jigger," as be
fore explained, is a portion as light or stiff as you wish to
make it. Some folks figure it as an ounce, or half a two-
ounce "pony" glass. Others more. A happy medium is two
ounces of Applejack. His recipe, by the way, won second
place in the contest mentioned.

           GOUVERNEUR MORRIS COCKTAIL
     For lack of a name, Gouverneur Morris's third winning
prize drink deserves his. Here's that noted author's idea of a
"real" cocktail. One-sixth French Vermouth, one-sixth
Itahan Vermouth, two-thirds gin, shaken in finely shaved ice
until there is double the amount of liquid originally poured
into the shaker. Well, it's cool, anyway, when poured into a
shell glass.
               LAMBS'CLUB COCKTAIL
   Mix in shaker one and a half oimces of dry gin, one and
a half ounces of French dry Vermouth and one ounce of
Itahan sweet Vermouth. Add a generous dash of Benedictine,
a teaspoon of "gum,"shake well and strain into cocktail glass.

                  LOFTUS COCKTAIL
   Back in the days when Ceciha Loftus and Jefiferson de
Angehs were the hit of the London stage and later of the
Cocktails                                                 ^
American, the Loftus cocktail was invented to honor "Cissie"
Loftus, as she was lovingly called. "Jeff" passed on to his
reward,I behave,in New Jersey,in 1932,at a good old age.
   For the enjoyment "Jeff" and she gave me when they ap
peared in "The Mascot" many years ago and sang that
"Gobble" song together, I'm going to mix a Loftus Cocktail
right now and drink to both:
    One and third ounces of Absinthe, French Vermouth and
Italian Sweet Vermouth shaken in my iced shaker and poured
into a cocktail glass fix the drink. And now, here's to you,
"Cissie," and to you, "Jeff," wherever you may be.
             MIXING A JACK ROSE COCKTAIL
   This, too is one of the good oldtime favorites. To mix a
Jack Rose, pour into iced shaker one ounce Applejack, a haK
ounce dry gin, a hah ounce French dry Vermouth, a table
spoon of Grenadine to give a rosy color to drink,two dashes of
lime juice and a teaspoon of orange juice. Shake well and
strain into cocktail glass. Some like it served in a slender
conical glass. It's up to your own preference.
            MIXING A SAZERAC COCKTAIL NO. 1
   Into your shaker containing ice pour two ounces of Rye
Whisky (you may change this to Scotch, Bourbon, Irish
Whisky or gin, if you hke either better than Rye Whisky).
Now add a teaspoon of orange bitters, a quarter teaspoon each
of Anisette and Absinthe and of lemon juice. Shake well and
strain into a cocktail glass.
            MIXING A CORONATION COCKTAIL
   This cocktail comes from England and supposedly is
served at the coronations of the British Kings. If it's good
enough for a King, it certainly deserves a place in this
volume,and here's how to imagine yourself a crowned person:
   Into a shaker pour two ounces each of gin and white
Creme de Menthe with a dash of, say, Noyeau, Cointreau
or Quantreau, or Dubonnet. Shake till very cold and pour
18                                     What Shall We Drink?
into cocktail glass. If you wish more than one cocktail, just
use the same proportions as for one and multiply by the num
ber of drinks you wish to serve.

                SAZERAC COCKTAIL NO. 2
    Stir in goblet with ice two ounces of rye or any other
whisky you hke, add a quarter teaspoon of Applejack, as
much orange bitters, a quarter teaspoon of lemon juice and as
much of Grenadine. When goblet begins to frost, strain into
cocktail glass and serve either with or without a Maraschino
cherry.

               MIXING A SAVOY COCKTAIL
    Into your iced shaker pour two ounces of Scotch whisky,
one oimce of orange juice or orange bitters, one ounce of dry
Italian Vermouth and a teaspoon of Chartreuse. Don't stop
shaking until frost appears on the shaker's exterior, then serve
in cocktail glass.

     MIXING A FORTY-SECOND STREET COCKTAIL
   Pour into your iced shaker two ounces of gin, an ounce of
Anisette, two dashes of orange bitters, the juice of a quarter
lemon or an equal amount of grapefruit juice and shake till
very cold. Serve in cocktail glass.

            MIXING A DUBONNET COCKTAIL
     To make a Dubonnet Cocktail is one of the simplest opera
tions of them all. Two ounces of gin and two ounces of
Dubonnet, a French preparation whose ingredients are
secret, should be shaken until cold and served in cocktail
glass. Easy, isn't it? Try it with whisky or rum,instead of
gin. Maybe you'll hke it. I do.

        MIXING AN OLD FASHIONED COCKTAIL
   Use your thick tumbler to mix for two; or a heavy bot
tomed glass will do. Put two lumps of sugar in container and
wet them with a couple of dashes of vichy or seltzer. Grind
Cocktails                                                     W
the sugar with a spoon until dissolved. Now put in a few
pieces of cracked ice and pour out about six ounces of whisky.
Measure out a half teaspoon of orange bitters and a quarter
teaspoon of Angostura bitters. Stir and pour into old-
fashioned cocktail glasses, topping surface of each drink with
a thin piece of lemon peel after tweaking the skin's oil into the
glass. Spoons may be served for sipping and each glass might
have a bit of chipped ice in it. Brandy or Sherry may be used
instead of Whisky,if desired.

              MIXING A SILVER COCKTAIL
   The Silver Cocktail is made in tumbler with two oimces of
gin and the same amount of dry Vermouth. Into this put a
half teaspoon of "gum" and stir. Then a quarter teaspoon of
orange bitters and slightly more of Maraschino cordial are
added; some ice cubes or cracked slivers of ice complete the
job and you stir, strain into cocktail glass and serve with a bit
of yellow lemon peel floating after tweaking it over contents.
This is for one drink. More can be made by multiplying the
ingredients as many times as you wish to furnish drinks.
            MIXING A VERMOUTH COCKTAIL
    Now you and I might mix two Vermouth Cocktails, this
time using the shaker with ice in it. Pour in one and a half
cocktail glasses of Vermouth (the sweet or dry as you may
prefer). Add three dashes of bitters (Angostura if you use
sweet Vermouth,orange bitters if you use the dry Vermouth),
a teaspoonful of Maraschino cordial and "gum" to suit taste.
Shake and pour into our waiting cocktail glasses for a really
delightful drink.
   Here's another Vermouth Cocktail you'll like: For two,
mix one and a half cocktail glassfuls of Vermouth, either
sweet or dry, two teaspoons of "gum," a quarter teaspoon of
bitters, a dash of Arrack and a slice of lemon. Shake in ice
and serve into cocktail glasses, adding a cherry or olive, as you
wish.
20                                   What Shall We Drink?
            MIXING AN ABSINTHE COCKTAIL
   Fix your shaker with shaved ice and, for two, pour into
shaker one cocktail glass full of Absinthe and a half glass of
distilled water. Now give two dashes of Angostura Bitters,
two dashes of Anisette cordial, and"gum"to sweeten to taste.
Shake thoroughly and strain into two cocktail glasses, topping
with tweaked bit of lemon peel.

            MIXING A SARATOGA COCKTAIL
     During the racing season at Saratoga,from now on, you'll
find this Saratoga Cocktail in great demand and, if you are at
the track, you may hke to mix some for yourself and your
guests. Here's how:
    For two portions, use two ounces each of Brandy, whisky
and sweet Vermouth, which pour in turn into the shaved ice
in your shaker. About a quarter teaspoon of Angostura
Bitters finishes the task and now you shake thoroughly to
mix ingredients and pour into two claret glasses topped with a
haK slice of lemon.
    If you prefer another method of mixing, here's a shghtly
less popular Saratoga Cocktail: Into your shaker and its
shaved ice pour (for two portions) five ounces of brandy, one
ounce of pineapple syrup,two dashes of Angostrrra Bitters and
one ounce of Maraschino cordial.
     Shake thoroughly and pour into cocktail glass in which
you have placed one or two strawberries. A dash of cham
pagne or sparkling Burgundy adds zest and a tweak of a bit of
lemon peel may be appreciated when you Hft your glass to
your hps.
               MIXING A SODA COCKTAIL
   Again let's mix for two in preparing this Soda Cocktail.
We can use a heavy tumbler this time, first putting into it
some shaved ice, then pouring in two teaspoons of "gum,"
two dashes of Arrack, a teaspoon of Creme de Menthe, a
quarter teaspoon of Angostura Bitters, one ounce of brandy
and enough soda water to reach within a quarter inch of the
Cocktails                                                  ^
top of tumbler. Mix with spoon, strain and serve even por
tions in shells, filling each shell with soda water. A nice
summer drink without much alcohohc content.


            MIXING A HARVARD COCKTAIL
    Harvard, always traditionally hberal and still so, gave
birth to this cocktail in the "dear old days" before Prohibi
tion, and the Harvard Cocktail is hkely to be just as popular
now in our newfound freedom. Here's how to mix one for just
you and me:
    Into the iced shaker pour two ponies (four ounces) of
brandy, two ponies of sweet Vermouth, about a half teaspoon
of orange bitters, "gum" to sweeten as you desire and shake
well before straining into our two cocktail glasses. I'U have a
half lemon slice floating in mine, please.

     HOW TO MIX THE ALEXANDER COCKTAIL
   Ice your shaker and pour in one and one-half ounces each
of dry gin, Creme de Cacao and pure cream. Shake thor
oughly and pour into cocktail glass.

         HOW TO MIX THE CORAL COCKTAIL
   Down in the West Indies—Havana especially—this is a
favorite drink of American women tourists or vacationists.
To make the Coral Cocktail, pour into iced shaker two ounces
sweet or dry gin, one ounce of any single or mixed fruit syrup
and one ounce of sweet or dry Italian Vermouth. Shake till
very cold and serve in cocktail glass.

       HOW TO MAKE A BORDEAUX COCKTAIL
   From the land of the poilu and franc comes the Bordeaux
Cocktail, relished during war days by our boys "Over There."
Here's how to mix one: One and a half ounces each of dry gin,
ApricoteUe and orange juice. Shake well in iced shaker and
strain into cocktail glass. Easy, isn't it? Well, sometimes
22                                     What Shall We Drink?
the boys had time only to drink and rush off to "go over the
top," you know,and a simple cocktail had to suflfice. But it's
good!
      HOW TO MIX A BOULEVARD GIN COCKTAIL
    Use shaker again to receive one and a half ounces gin, dry
or sweet as preferred, three-quarter ounce each of sweet
Italian Vermouth and dry French Vermouth,and a half ounce
of grape fruit or orange juice. Shake and strain into cocktail
glass.
            MIXING A WALDORF COCKTAIL
   In your cocktail shaker furnished with shaved ice pour one
ounce of whisky (whichever kind you prefer), one ounce of
Itahan sweet Vermouth, one ounce of Absinthe and a dash of
Angostura Bitters. Shake till very cold and serve in cocktail
glass with a bit of yellow lemon peel floating.

          MIXING A BOSTON CLUB COCKTAIL
   Shake together in ice two ounces of gin (any kind), one
ounce dry Itahan Vermouth and the juice of a half orange.
Into your cocktail glass put a small quantity of tiny pearled
onions and pour mixture over them. If you don't like the
onions, use an ohve.

       MIXING AN APPLE BLOSSOM COCKTAIL
   Two ounces of Applejack, two ounces of Italian sweet
Vermouth, a quarter teaspoon of Grenadine and the same of
pineapple juice or syrup, a teaspoon of "grun." Shake well
and pour.
         MIXING A PALL MALL COCKTAIL
     From "dear old Lunnon" comes the Pall Mall to delight
our palates: It's simply made by mixing in tumbler well iced
one and a half ounces of rye whisky, a half ounce of Apple
jack or apple brandy, an ounce of orange juice, an ounce of
lemon juice and (if you like it) two dashes of Grenadine.
Some prefer, instead of Grenadine, a dash of Arrack or Noy-
eau. Stir with spoon and strain into cocktail glass.
Cocktails                                                     M
            HOW TO MIX A TUXEDO COCKTAIL
   Shake two ounces of gin, two ounces of Sherry Wine and a
teaspoon of "gum," add a dash of orange bitters, and pour.

            HOW TO MIX A CARUSO COCKTAIL
    Enrico Caruso's favorite! Toast, if you wiU, the memory
of that glamorous tenor of immortality, with a well stirred
mixture of one and a half ounces of Sherry wine, one and a
half ounces of French or Italian sweet Vermouth and one and
a half ounces of Holland gin. Pour into cocktail glass.

                   STINGER COCKTAIL
    This was named many years ago because it was supposed
to "bite" the throat going down, and was assumed to be a
good bracer after a rather strenuous day—or party. At any
rate, here's the prescription from Dr. Bart Ender: Two
ounces of Cognac Brandy and one ounce of white Creme de
menthe shaken weU in iced shaker before straining into cock
tail glass. Another Stinger recipe that I recall is made up of
two ounces of Scotch Whisky,an ounce of Arrack and a dash
of Angostura Bitters.

                      YALE COCKTAIL
   For the sons of Old Eli this preparation seems to hold
plenty of college atmosphere after a few of 'em go down the
throat:Into a goblet half full of shaved ice, pour two ounces of
Gin and a quarter teaspoon of Orange Bitters. Stir well and
strain into cocktail glass, filling remainder of glass with vichy,
seltzer or carbonated water. Four of these start the "Boola-
Boola" song.
                  TAMMANY COCKTAIL
    The roar of the political tiger is heard and tasted in this
Tammany Cocktail. Its ingredients vary at will. It depends
on whether you are drinking one in the "silk stocking dis
trict" or the Bowery environs. Tammany is ubiquitous and
tactful, you know. So,for the higher-up sachems of the tribe,
24                                     What Shall We Drink?
for instance, this is the mixture: One ounce of Gin, one ounce
of French Vermouth, one ounce of Italian Vermouth, one
dash of Absinthe, all poured into iced shaker with a teaspoon
of"gum." Shake and serve in cocktail glass.
    For the ordinary ward heelers of the tribe, this is the con
coction: Two ounces of Gin, an ounce of ItaUan Vermouth, a
dash of Angostura Bitters, no sugar. Shake and serve.

            MIXING A PING PONG COCKTAIL
    The Ping Pong Cocktail is another oldtimer—virtually
nothing more or less than the Sloe Gin Cocktail under
another name. However, if you must insist upon having a
slight variation, here goes:
    Cracked ice in shaker receives (for two portions) one and a
half cocktail glasses of sloe gin, two-thirds of a cocktail glass
of dry Vermouth, four dashes of orange bitters, "gum" to
suit taste. Shake well. Serve in cocktail glasses with Maras
chino cherry or olive, as preferred.

              MIXING A JERSEY COCKTAIL
     Again let's mix for two a Jersey Cocktail, which is nothing
more or less than one of the variations of the Cider Cocktail.
Here's how:Into shaker with ice pour one and a half cocktail
glasses of good "hard" cider, add a few dashes of bitters to
suit, "gum" to sweeten and shake before pouring into two
cocktail glasses. Top with a bit of tweaked yellow lemon
rind, and quaff.

      HOW TO MIX AN APPLE BRANDY COCKTAIL
     Pour into shaker three ounces apple brandy, one and a
half oimces dry or sweet Italian Vermouth, a tablespoonful of
"gum" and a quarter teaspoon of orange bitters. Shake
thoroughly and pour into your cocktail glass.

         HOW TO MIX THE PERFECT COCKTAIL
     Into your shaker containing cracked ice pour one and a
half ounces each of dry gin, Italian dry Vermouth, French
Cocktails                                                  ^
dry Vermouth and one dash of Arrack. Shake well and serve
with a tweaked bit of orange peel (only the yellow part)
floating on top of your cocktail glass.
            MIXING A BLACKTHORN COCKTAIL
   Another pre-Prohibition favorite again restored to favor is
the Blackthorn Cocktail, which we now can enjoy together.
   Into the iced shaker pour four ounces of sloe gin, two tea
spoons of "gum," a tablespoon of strained lemon juice, a
quarter tablespoon of orange bitters, three ounces of sweet
Vermouth and two dashes of Angostura Bitters. Shake well
and strain into our two cocktail glasses.

       HOW TO MIX A DEMI-VIRGIN COCKTAIL
   Strange name,eh? So are the names of many of the fancy
drinks, and Demi-Virgin is good enough for any man! Let's
mix in our shaker three ounces of dry gin, three-quarter ounce
of Grenadine, the juice of one lime and one dash of orange
bitters. Shake and serve in cocktail glass. Some folks like a
longer drink and serve this drink with cracked ice in a thin
stemmed Sherry type glass, using "stiffer" proportions of four
parts gin to one part Grenadine, the other ingredients re
maining the same. It's mostly a matter of taste.
            HOW TO MIX AN ITALIAN COCKTAIL
   Out with the iced shaker again and pour into it the juice
of a quarter of an orange, three ounces of Italian gin (dry or
sweet) and one and a half ounces of Italian Vermouth. Add a
sprig of mint,shake well and serve in cocktail glass, with mint
floating.
              MIXING A HONOLULU COCKTAIL
   Hawaii gives us other things besides strumming ukes,
festooned maidens in hula-hula costumes and moonlight on
Waikiki Beach. The Honolulu Cocktail has equal romance.
Here it is:
   Pour into iced shaker a good two ounces of Bacardi Rum,
one ounce of orange juice and a half teaspoon of Grenadine.
26                                    What Shall We Drink?
Add a bit of "gum" if you like it sweeter. Shake till shaker
shows frost on exterior. Strain into cocktail glass and top
with a quarter slice of orange.

             MIXING A HAWAIIAN COCKTAIL
    And while we're chatting of Hawaii we might as well mix
up a Hawaiian Cocktail hy putting into our shaker two ounces
of Applejack or Apple brandy, one ounce of pineapple juice,
the juice of a half lemon (or one whole lime), a tablespoon of
"gum," a half teaspoon of Maraschino Cordial and a small
dash of bitters. Shake well and pour into a small highball
glass, filling glass to brim with very finely shaved ice. You
can drink from rim or use straws or glass sippers. A cherry
and a few bits of pineapple on top make this drink decorative.

         MIXING THE CHEVY CHASE COCKTAIL
   Another Enghsh concoction everyone will like is the Chevy
Chase CocktaU, made up as follows: Pour into tumbler one
and a hah ounces of gin (any kind), one and half ounces
French Vermouth,(dry), one and a half ounces sweet Italian
Vermouth,a dash of orange juice, flower water or bitters, and
about a quarter teaspoon of brandy. Mix well in the ice until
thoroughly chilled and strain into cocktail glass.

                    MAXIM COCKTAIL
   Remember Maxim's in the old days when Broadway
boulevardiers deemed it the equal of the best eating places of
Europe, where mirth and wit sparkled over spotless linen
tables and Champagne flowed in a seemingly endless efferves
cent stream? Well, Maxim's used to serve this cocktail,
which, at the time, I thoroughly enjoyed. Perhaps you'll
like one.
     Into iced shaker pour two ounces of Holland Gin (or other
types if you wish),one ounce of Italian sweet or dry Vermouth
at your own liking; a dash of Curacao, or Arrack, or Cacao, or
Noyeau, Maxim's was just like that—if one thing didn't
suit your taste, another would. Hence its great popularity.
Cocktails                                                ^
                PRINCETON COCKTAIL
    Anyone would feel like a "Tiger" after a game with Yale,
for instance, drinking this Princeton concoction: Into a tumb
ler with cracked ice pour one and a half ounces of Gin, pre
ferably "dry," a quarter teaspoon of Orange Bitters, a tea
spoon of "gum," and stir well to chill and mix ingredients.
Strain into cocktail glass and top off with a half ounce of
Port Wine, or Benedictine or Catawba, if you prefer, floating
it on top of the Gin. A bit of lemon peel is nice.

                PRESIDENT COCKTAIL
   The President Cocktail, as usually given, although there
are many variations, is mixed in tumbler with ice, hke this:
Pour in one and a half ounces each of Bacardi Rum and Italian
sweet Vermouth, two squirts of Curacao or Arrack, stir
gently and strain into cocktail glass. The other variations
substitute Jamaica Rum, or Scotch Whisky and some even
use Benedictine for the Rum. Do whatever you please. It's
your privilege—and hquor.
         MIXING AN APPLEJACK COCKTAIL
   Our old friend the Applejack Cocktail renews his bowing
acquaintance with popular favor. We'll mix two—one for
you and one for him.
   Into your iced shaker mix one and one-half cocktail
glasses of Applejack, a quarter teaspoon of Curacao, a tea
spoon of "gum," and a bit less than a quarter teaspoon of
Angostura Bitters. Shake and pour, topping drink with a
tweaked lemon rind and adding, if you wish, a cherry or
olive to each glass.
            MIXING A MIKADO COCKTAIL
   No, the Mikado Cocktail did not originate in Japan, but
merely was named from the comic opera by its inventor years
ago. Proceed with the iced shaker for two again by mixing
five ounces of Brandy, two tablespoons of Orgeat syrup or
cordial, a quarter teaspoon of bitters. Shake well. Now pour
28                                    What Shall We Drink?
and tweak a bit of lemon peel over each of the two cocktail
glasses before dropping in the lemon rind and drinking. For
one, use half the ingredients.
              MIXING THE STAR COCKTAIL
    For two drinks for you and your guest who might Hke a
Star Cocktail, pour into iced shaker three-quarters of a cock
tail glass of Applejack,the same amount of sweet Vermouth,a
spoonful of "gum," a dash of Arrack, a quarter teaspoon of
bitters (orange preferably) and shake to mix ingredients.
Pour into your two cocktail glasses. A cherry isn't objec
tionable.
             MIXING A PINK LADY COCKTAIL
     Let's try a Pink Lady Cocktail for two. All we have to do
is pour five ounces of dry gin into our iced shaker, add two
teaspoons of Benedictine, a tablespoon of Grenadine, a tea
spoon of "gum," and shake well before pouring into our cock
tail glasses. Easy, isn't it?
            MIXING A MARASCHINO COCKTAIL
   Another simple one for your bridge foursome is the
Maraschino Cocktail. Pour into iced shaker a quarter tea
cup of Maraschino cordial, a teacup of orange juice, and a
half teacup of seltzer or carbonated water. Shake thoroughly
until very cold. Then pour into four cocktail glasses and add
Maraschino cherry to each glass.
             MIXING A SLOE GIN COCKTAIL
   Into your iced shaker pour two ounces of sloe gin and two
ounces of dry gin. Add juice of one lime, a teaspoonful of
orange bitters and a little "gum" to suit taste. Shake well
and pour for two into cocktail glasses.
       MIXING A GOLDEN GATE MILK COCKTAIL ,
     From Sunny California comes this one, the Golden Gate
Mfik Cocktail.
     Get your iced shaker ready to pour into it six ounces of
milk, an ounce of Benedictine, a dash of brandy. Shake well
Cocktails                                                  W
and serve in tumbler three-fourths full of ice. Top with
grated nutmeg and sip. You may like more Benedictine. If
you do, just add to suit your taste.
            MIXING THE ADMIRAL COCKTAIL
   Admirals like their hquor, so here's what they drink—
when they aren't on duty. Stirred in glass with ice go two
ounces of gin, an ounce of cherry brandy, the juice of a lime
and two tablespoons of "gum." Strain into glass and toast
the navy!
       MIXING THE BEAU BRUMMEL COCKTAIL
    Remember Beau Brummel, pattern of male fashions and
breaker of women's hearts? WeU, here's a cocktail named
after him and which, it is said, he relished, before the word
"cocktail" was bom.
   Pour into tumbler with ice a good drink of Bourbon or rye
whisky, a tablespoon of "gum" or powdered sugar, if you
prefer, and add a teaspoon of lime juice. Stir well till very
cold and strain into an old fashioned cocktail glass. Crown
top with a bit of yeUow lemon peel previously tweaked over
the liquid. It's "stiff!"
              MIXING AN ARMY COCKTAIL
   Army officers fike this one—and, perhaps, some West
Pointers when they get a furlough:
   Into a shaker furnished with shaved ice pour two ounces
of Bacardi Rum, half an ounce of "gum," half an ounce of
lemon juice and half an ounce of orange juice. Add a dash of
Arrack and shake thoroughly, straining into cocktail glass.
            MIXING A BRANDYWINE COCKTAIL
   Stir this one. It's delicious! Use shaved ice in a tumbler.
Pour in one ounce of brandy of any kind, one ounce of Sherry,
a quarter teaspoon of Curacao,a teaspoon of "gum," one dash
of Angostura Bitters and a dash of Arrack. Stir till glass is
frosted and serve in cocktail glass, topped with a bit of
lemon.
30                                    What Shall We Drink?

                      ARCTIC COCKTAIL
    This is one of the most refreshing and delightful of cock
tails. The recipe has been used in my familyfor many years,
but is little known. I venture to wager it will become mightily
popular once its mixing is tried by readers of this book.
They'U spread it among their friends!
    Fill a scant third of a cocktail glass with fine French
Brandy, another scant third with white Creme de Menthe
(don't use the Green), and another scant third with rich,
thick cream. Add one dash only of either Curacao or Orange
Bitters and a half teaspoon of fine powdered sugar. Pour the
lot into a shaker containing a generous amount of finely
shaved ice. Shake until the shaker shows signs of frost out
side. Then pour your drink into the cocktail glass. It will be
velvety smooth, fluffy, and most delightfully palatable.
                BROADWAY COCKTAIL
     Here's a variation of the Broadway Cocktail which you
may like. (There are many self-devised by would-be drink
mixers that do not deserve a place in this volume).
   Use equal third parts of Gin, French Vermouth and
Brandy, a dash of Orange Bitters and a teaspoon of "gum."
Mix well and serve.
                  MARVEL COCKTAIL
   For the Marvel Cocktail use equal third parts of Bene
dictine, French Vermouth and Maraschino Cordial. Add one
dash of Noyeau and a teaspoon of "gum." Then shake and
serve.

           BOULEVARD BRANDY COCKTAIL
   Equal third parts of Brandy, Pineapple Syrup and Maras
chino Cordial, with a dash of Orange Bitters. Shake and
serve.

              MIXING A BIJOU COCKTAIL
   Bon vivants always like the Bijou Cocktail—at least, they
did when I was—well, thirteen years younger. Just to see if
memory of its delectability is faulty,let's mix two as follows:
Cocktails                                                     ^
   Ice the shaker and pour in two ounces of sweet gin, two
ounces of sweet Vermouth, two ounces of green Chartreuse
and shake until very cold. Now pour into our cocktail glasses,
add a cherry or oHve to each glass, tweak and drop on top a
small bit of yeUow lemon rind. That's it! Now,here's to you
and you to me—a goodly drink, we both agree!
                MIXING A CLUB COCKTAIL
   The Club Cocktail, as its name imphes, was a genuine
favorite in the "good old days" and was rehshed in the most
exclusive clubs. But, as it tastes just as good outside of a
club, let's mix one for us two:
    Ice in the shaker first, please, and then pour in one and a
scant third cocktail glassfuls of old gin and two-thirds glass of
sweet Vermouth, which stir a bit before adding a tablespoon
of Chartreuse. Shake weU, pour into our two cocktail glasses,
and add a Maraschino cherry to each drink. Prosit!
             MIXING A ROB ROY COCKTAIL
    Well, weU! Our old friend, the Rob Roy Cocktail, now re
appears after a long exile to take his place with other noble
drinks! Let's see if he's still as dehcious as of yore.
   Again we'U mix for two in our iced shaker. First three
ounces of Scotch Whisky—any other kind would be a
sacrilege, almost, in a Rob Roy. Now add three ounces of
French dry Vermouth and give them a little stir with a spoon.
Two dashes of Angostura Bitters, a quarter teaspoon of
orange bitters, and you're ready to shake thoroughly. Pour
into two cocktail glasses and serve with a tweaked bit of yel
low lemon rind floating in each glass.
              MIXING A COFFEE COCKTAIL
   Yes, you can make both a Tea or Coffee Cocktail, too, if
you desire. Try one with me, but don't be startled if there
are no tea or coffee flavorings used. They're simply cocktails
to quaff as adjuncts to your hot cup of tea or coffee. After all,
what's the difference, if the drink be good? You'll agree as
32                                     What Shall We Drink?
we now mix for us two in our shaker holding a half dozen
cubes of ice. Break into it two fresh eggs and stir with spoon
imtil yolk and white are blended. Now add a tablespoon of
"gum," about six ounces of Port Wine, two ponies of French
Brandy and shake till your arms ache, the more the better.
Now strain into two tall slender goblets, adding a bit of
shaved ice if necessary to fill. Grate a bit of nutmeg on top of
each glass and toast the inventor of this delectable drink.
MIXING A MANHATTAN CLUB OYSTER COCKTAIL
    Of course, when you want a Manhattan Club Oyster
Cocktail, it must be in the months which have an "R" in
their spelling. Use a large oyster cocktail glass and into it put
a half dozen—or less, if you wish—freshly opened oysters.
Over this pour this mixture, which we shall make in a separate
container:
     Squeeze out into a tumbler the juice of one lemon strained
into the shaved ice, add two dashes of Tabasco sauce, a pinch
of salt and a mite of red and white pepper. Now add a tea
spoon of vinegar and two teaspoons of catsup. Shake thor
oughly and spread in two even portions over the oysters.
Serve with oyster fork. Fooled you, that time, didn't I?
Not a bit of alcohol in the whole list of ingredients! But a
glass of cold beer or ale goes well with it!
           MIXING A "HANGOVER" COCKTAIL
    Assuming that once in a while your foot might slip and you
feel a bit headachy in the morning, there's an old maxim that
it is not a bad idea to take some of the poison of the snake that
bit you. Whether that is good or bad advice doesn't matter,
so long as the drink be good, and you'll agree it is when you
drink this "Hangover" Cocktail, making it for yourseh alone,
because I haven't any headache:
   Shaved ice in the shaker first, please. Now pour in an
ounce of brandy, an ounce of whisky, a dash of Absinthe (or
that may be left out as you wish), two dashes of Angostura
Bitters, a teaspoon of "gum," a quarter teaspoon of Curacao,
Cocktails                                                    ^
and shake till very cold. Now strain into a tumbler contain
ing a lump of ice to hold the chill and fill the glass with vichy
or seltzer or ApoUinaris water. Now a short stir with a spoon
and drink—and here's hoping that headache vanishes!
                 METROPOLE COCKTAIL
   Two ounces of Brandy,two ounces of French Vermouth, a
dash of Orange Bitters, a teaspoon of "gum." Shake weU and
serve.

                   BACARDI COCKTAIL
   Two ounces of Bacardi Riun, a tablespoon of Grenadine,
the juice of a quarter lime. Shake and serve.
                 THREE-WAY COCKTAIL
   Equal parts of Rum, Dubonnet and lime juice; shake
well, serve and into cocktail glass add a dash of Noyeau.
While this drink is preferable without sugar or "gum," there
is no objection to using either to sweeten to taste.
                   CALORIC COCKTAIL
   Pour into iced shaker an ounce of Caloric Punch, two
ounces of Gin, juice of a whole lime. Shake well, strain into
glass and drink. Some might like a bit of sugar. This drink
also can be enjoyable if mixed with an equal amount of vichy
and served in larger glass. It is best very cold.
                       RUM CRUSTA
   The crusta is so-called because before the drink is mixed,
the rim of a cocktail glass is moistened with whatever
liquor is to be used and then turned upside down to be dipped
into powdered sugar, which forms a crust on the rim of the
glass very pleasant to look at and equally pleasant when
placing hps to glass after drink is mixed. To make a Rum
Crusta, therefore, moisten the rim of glass with rum and dip
rim into powdered sugar. Now, pour into a shaker two
ounces of (any) rum, a quarter teaspoon of "gum," a dash of
Angostura Bitters, a dash of lemon juice and a dash of
Curacao,two tablespoons of finely cracked ice, and the thinly
34                                   What Shall We Drink?
peeled yellow rind of a half lemon. Shake thoroughly until
shaker begins to frost. Strain carefully into the cocktail
glass, being careful not to wash off the sugar crust from rim
of glass. You'll be dehghted with this drink, really only a
"stiff" cocktail under an aHas.

                ANGEL'S KISS COCKTAIL
   Here's a drink from Canada sure to appeal to the ladies.
Into a shaker containing cracked ice pour one ounce each of
Burgundy Wine, Creme de Cocoa, Grenadine and heavy
cream. Shake thoroughly and pour into four-ounce stemmed
glass of tulip shape. It's a dainty drink and deserves the
dainty type of cocktail glass.
             DEVIL'S DELIGHT COCKTAIL
   In sharp contrast with the Angel's Eass is the Devil's
Delight—a man's drink. Mix it thus: Into iced shaker pour
an ounce of Rye or Scotch Whiskey, an ounce of Bacardi
Rum, an ounce of Orange Bitters, a tablespoon of "gum."
Shake thoroughly and pour into a cocktail glass.
                       GIN CRUSTA
     Made like Rum Crusta, using Gin.

                    BRANDY CRUSTA
     Made like Rum Crusta, using Brandy.

                    WHISKY CRUSTA
    Made like Rum Crusta, using Whisky, of any brand—
rye, Scotch, Irish, Bourbon or blended types.
    Sometimes you might vary the ingredients by substitut
ing for Curacao a dash of Arrack, or Maraschino, or Noyeau.
All are delightful flavorings.
    Many cocktails under other names are omitted from this
book, either because they will not endure or because their
ingredients blend horribly, being only haphazard mixtures
born during the Prohibition period. Many are merely slight
Cocktails                                                   ^
variations of the standard drinks, such as you might make
yourself, and to which you might give names of your own
choice.
   It is obvious that the cocktail, through its dilution with
other ingredients of little or no alcohoHc content, is less in
jurious to the tender membranes of the body than drinks of
straight whiskey, gin, brandy, rum or applejack. Even the
distillers will tell you this fact. They do not want men and
women to be hurt by their products, for longer Uves mean
greater sales, and steadier demand. There are times, of
course, when straight drinks are good for the system—in
sickness, for instance. Distillers actually cooperate with pro
ducers of other beverages which may be mixed with their
products, to promote temperate drinking. I say this, with
full knowledge that bigoted objectors will scoff and attack
the assertion.
    Saloons and hotels, for profit-making purposes, usually
make cocktails seldom exceeding two ounces, or haljthe size
of those I recommend. Years ago the 2-ounce was deemed
a "Ladies' Drink." I prefer a 3-ounce, but the advantage
of the 4-ounce is that one satisfies thirst. The 2-ounce is so
short that a second bother of mixing is needlessly incurred.
    As to individual taste, drinking cocktails, as in drinking
any other beverage, should not be made unpleasant by too
strict adherence to arbitrary formulas. If your guest prefers,
say, a stronger proportion of Rye in his Manhattan and less
of Vermouth, or more of Vermouth and less of Rye,or wishes
weaker or stronger variations made in other drinks, by all
means satisfy him—or her.
   For your guest, after all, is the one to please, rather than
yourself.
36                                   What Shall We Drink?

              FOR YOUR CONVENIENCE
    (If you would like to make a permanent record of some
other Cocktail formula which appeals to you, and to record
its history and title, this blank page will be found handy.
If you have many recipes you wish to preserve, I suggest
that you cut paper the size of page and paste into the book.)
                         Chapter n

           How to Make Punches
   FEW drink mixtures answer the needs of hospitality to
such a satisfactory degree as the time-honored punches.
Some are very simply made, others, a bit more difi&cult,
nevertheless justify whatever labor may be involved, be
cause of the pleasure they impart.
   There are many types of punches, hot and cold, and, as in
the case of cocktails, the formulas of standard type given
herewith are capable of variations of ingredients to suit the
taste or whim of host, hostess or guest.
   I have tapped many sources for the large number of
punches listed, hoping that in a large variety, I can satisfy
any kind of taste.
   Let us take up the simpler type first and start with a
claret Punch.
                MIXING CLARET PUNCH
   Prepare your punch bowl with cubed or cracked ice, say,
about half full. Into this pour three bottles of chilled Claret
Wine and add about a pound of sugar, granulated or pow
dered. Stir thoroughly to dissolve the sugar. Then add two
oranges sliced thin and the sUces cut into quarters, and, in
season, a half pineapple, diced. (If pineapples are not in
season, a small can of them, cut into dice, will do). Stir
thoroughly. Now add a pint bottle of previously chilled
Champagne, stir shghtly, and serve immediately in punch
glasses, which usually contain from four to five ounces of
liquid.
   Your punch is ready to serve, if you wish to have it used
before the effervescence of the champagne has been dis
sipated.
    The portion, assuming the use of the usual punch glasses,
is sufficient for fifteen drinks. If more or less is desired,
                             37
38                                     What Shall We Drink?
divide or multiply the ingredients accordingly for the larger
or smaller amount.
    The hostess may serve or let her guests ladle out their
own. Usually, however, the guests enjoy the hostess's pour
ing. Of course, if you wish a servant to perform this rite,
you may do so. In some cases, it may be necessary.
    If one wishes to dispense with the champagne and merely
use the claret, there can be no objection, and it makes a
delicious punch alone.
               MIXING BURGUNDY PUNCH
   Into your punch bowl half full of cracked or cubed ice
pour three bottles of a Burgundy wine and stir to chill.
Then add orange syrup to suit taste, also stirring while
adding two diced oranges and half a pineapple cut into
slices and diced.
     This may be served in the usual punch glasses and makes
approximately fifteen drinks.
   Some hostesses serve in tumblers fiUed with shaved ice,
crowning the top of the ice with the fruits and furnishing
straws for sipping the "individual" punch drink. There is no
reason why other methods of serving cannot be invented by
the hostess. The chief point, after aU, has been achieved in
the preparation of the punch. For instance, instead of pine
apple, one may use strawberries, raspberries or other fruits in
season. Lemon dice sometimes are added with the orange,
but should be used sparingly.
             MIXING A MANHATTAN PUNCH
     The Manhattan punch often is mixed in individual
fashion but the task is too laborious for the host when enter
taining a half dozen or more guests. Far easier to mix the
concoction in a large shaker and then serve individually.
     Let us figure, say, on four portions for a bridge party.
If you are entertaining more or fewer, you merely need ob
serve the proportions of the ingredients given here. For
mixmg punches as well as cocktails and other drinks, have on
Punches                                                    ^
hand a "graduate glass," such as I mentioned at the onset,
which has circular rings cut into the outer face, each ring
marked,"i oz.," "2 oz.," etc. The cost is insignificant. Any
department store, liquor retailer or glassware store should
have it for sale.
   Now to mix that Manhattan punch to pep up your con
tract bidding:
   Into the shaker filled with enough ice to chill thoroughly
the ingredients, pom eight ounces of milk and five table-
spoonsful of sugar. Now add three ounces of rye whisky
(don't use Scotch), and not more than an ounce and a half of
Italian Vermouth, but not the "dry" variety. Add about
ten drops of Angostura Bitters (or less, as your taste prefers,
but not more,lest the mixture be too bitter to be palatable to
your guests).
   Now shake thoroughly and pour into ice-filled glasses,
preferably seven-ounce stemmed glasses. Top each glass
with grated nutmeg and serve with straws.
   Your guests will sip this with delight and praise your skill
as a mixer of nectarian masterpieces.

                    OXFORD PUNCH
   And now let's try an English punch, said to be extremely
popular and time-tried in old Oxford University. First, rub
sugar squares against the rinds of three lemons until the
yellow is all absorbed by the sugar. Now shave off only the
yellow rinds from two lemons and two oranges. Put sugar
squares and rinds into the juice of a half dozen lemons and
four oranges, add six glasses of calf's foot jeUy bought pre
viously in a delicatessen, and stir thoroughly, adding a pint
of hot water. Let stand a half hour, then strain into heat
resisting punch bowl. Now pour on a quart and a pint of
boiling water, stirring all the while. Into this add a quart of
orange shrub, a bottle of capillaire, a haff pint of Sherry and
one pint each of Cognac Brandy and Rum (Jamaica or
Bacardi preferred). Stir well, and serve.
           40                                      What Shall We Drink?

                             CLARET BRIDGE PUNCH
              There are many variations of the claret punch. Here is
           another dehghtful mixture:
              Say you are entertaining a foursome at bridge—yourself
           and three guests. Have ready four tumblers heaped to the
           brim with shaved ice. Now into an iced shaker pour two
           tumblers of claret. Add eight level tablespoonsful of granu
           lated or powdered sugar; squeeze out the juice of two thin
           slices of lemon and three shoes of orange. Shake well and
           strain into the four ice-fiUed tumblers. A garnishing of one
           thin shoe of lemon cut into quarters and of a thin shoe of
           orange cut into halves may be stuck into the shaved ice of
           each tumbler. Serve with straws or glass sippers.
                            SINCLAIR LEWIS PUNCH
                Yes,the author of this is no less a personage than the first
           American author to win the Nobel Prize for Literature! And
           he made it pubUc only as recently as December 6, 1933! So,
           if you'd hke to feel a vicarious nearness to this popular writer
           of best sellers, mix up his recipe and, if you care to, toast or
           roast him, as you will. Either is the drinker's priceless
           privilege!
               Take the juice of six lemons, one pound of powdered
           sugar, one half pint of Cognac Brandy, one quarter pint of
           Peach Brandy, one quarter pint of Jamaica Rum,three pints
           of sparkling water. Pour each ingredient over a large square
           of ice in your punch bowl. The mixture makes about two and
           a half quarts. After stirring it, I know Mr. Lewis won't ob
           ject if you add your own favorite fruits and berries to decor
           ate the surface of the beverage.
                             CLARET FRUIT PUNCH
                And here's another claret drink you will like—and so will
           your guests:
               Pour into iced shaker (for four drinks) two tumblers of
           claret. Add five tablespoons of granulated or powdered
           sugar, three fairly thick slices of lemon, squeezing out the



■■   ^—'
 Punches
" juice a bit, and half an orange, slicing and squeezing to dis
 tribute the juice but letting the rind also go into the shaker.
 Add a dash of Arrack. Now shake thoroughly and strain
 into four ice-filled tumblers, capping the top of the shaved
 ice with strawberries, raspberries, diced pineapple or any
 other fruit desired, if in season. You'll smack your lips over
 this as you sip it with straw or glass sippers.
     From the foregoing, you may find it delightful to experi
 ment with other claret punches of your own invention, fol
 lowing the proportions given of ingredients, but using pine
  apple or grape fruit or seasonable berries instead of lemons
  and oranges.
              MIXING A DEBUTANTE PUNCH
     And now we might discuss another popular punch—the
  debutante—excellently adapted to a coming-out party at
  which, say, twenty are present.
     Place in a large punch bowl a large square of ice. Over
  this pour a large goblet of Grenadine, then a large goblet of
  creme de menthe. Follow with a half gallon of grape juice,
  then about a pint and a half of tea.
     Now add a quart of carbonated water and stir till well
  chilled. Into the mixture now put diced lemons, say, about
  ten, and ten oranges either diced or cut into sliced quarters.
  Let them chill a while, then serve in punch glasses, or let
  guests help themselves if they wish. This should give each of
  the twenty about two drinks apiece. If more is desired, just
  add ingredients proportionately.
                    THE ALFONSO PUNCH
     They say that former King Alfonso of Spain fairly revels
  in this "Alfonso Punch." Let's try it.
     Prepare your big punch bowl with a large square of ice
  and over this pour a quarter bottle of Benedictine, a full
  quart bottle of ginger ale, a full quart of seltzer or carbonated
  water, an ounce of Angostura Bitters, an ounce of Creme de
  Menthe.
42                                     What Shall We Drink?
    Stir to chill thoroughly. Then stir in a mixture of diced
fruits, consisting of lemons, oranges, bananas, peaches and
pears, as much or as little as you desire, but sufficient to have
several fruit tidbits for each punch glass.
   This mixture should provide a glass each for fifteen. If
you wish more or less, use ingredients in proportion.
              BURGUNDY BRIDGE PUNCH
   Anyone's palate will be refreshened with the Burgundy
punch now suggested, and again let us assume that a bridge
foursome is to be entertained.
    Into your shaker prepared with ice to chill contents pour
a large goblet of Burgundy wine. Add five ounces of orange
syrup and shake thoroughly. Now pour into tall, slender
i2-ounce glasses which have been filled with shaved ice, and
into the ice thrust garnishings of sliced pineapple, oranges or
other fruits in season. Sip through straws or glass sippers.
                THE BLOSSOM PUNCH
   Over the square of ice in your punch bowl pour a quart of
apricot cordial, then two quarts of water. Now add the juice
offour lemons and three oranges. Stir thoroughly. Then add
about a pint of carbonated water or seltzer, stir slightly and
serve in punch glasses. This mixture wiU furnish about
twenty to twenty-five drinks—depending on whether your
hand shpped a bit in the desire to impart a bit more of the
apricot cordial flavor to the punch, which is highly per
missible.
               THE CATAWBAN PUNCH
    Back to our bridge table again and that foursome wrink
ling brows over some contract bid. This Catawban Punch
will smooth out the wrinkles.
   Have four lemonade glasses ready, each about a third full
of shaved ice. Now pour into your shaker, iced to chill
contents, a half bottle of Catawba wine. Add the juice of
two lemons and four tablespoons of sugar, or four ounces of
lemon syrup. Then put in the juice of a quarter orange and
Punches                                                     43
shake. Pour into each glass and garnish with Maraschino
cherries, pineapple dice or any other fruit or berry you and
your guests relish most.
    If this doesn't make even a losing bidder smile graciously,
it might be better not to invite him or her again to your game.
           THE CREME DE MENTHE PimCH
   Over that now well described square of ice in your punch
bowl, pour a pint of Creme de Menthe. FoUow this with a
pint of white grape juice and then one and a half quarts of
water. Stir well. Now add a quart and a hah of seltzer or
carbonated water; stir slightly so as not to exhaust too soon
the effervescence. Now add diced fruits as you wish—oranges
lemons, bananas, apricots, pears or peaches, or berries, if
desired.
   And if your guests don't appreciate this, it may be that
they had a sleepless night or something else that disturbed
their sense of appreciation.
   Incidentally, this mixture will furnish about thirty punch
glass drinks.
           THE CHATHAM ARTHLERY PUNCH
   Here is one of the headiest punches ever concocted, if you
are staging a stag party or bachelor dinner for men who like
to get a real "kick" out of their drinking.
   To mix a Chatham Artillery Punch, which, by the way,
originated in Dixie, have your big punch bowl ready with
that square of ice in its center. Over the ice pour two quarts
of Catawba wine, a pint of rye whisky, or Scotch (as you
prefer) and a pint of rum. Now add three pineapples diced,
six diced oranges and a pint of strawberries cut into slices or
quarters. Stir thoroughly until the mixture is very cold.
    Now let the corks pop out of six quart bottles of chilled
champagne and add their effervescent bubbles to the big
punch bowl's contents, stirring just slightly.
   This mixture gives about seventy drinks in punch glasses
—and a "kick" in every glass. Of course, if you need less.
44                                     What Shall We Drink?
or if your "crowd" is larger, or likes it so much that they de
sire a bigger "kick" by imbibing more, observe the propor
tions given and have more or less as your needs require.
     Some hosts, before adding the champagne, let the other
ingredients stand in the uniced bowl overnight. But it isn't
necessary. However, make sure that when it is imbibed that
it is thoroughly cold, as this adds to its zest. And, as a final
word,—beware!
                     BRANDY PUNCH
     And now let us enjoy a few different Brandy punches to
gether. Here, for example, is one almost everybody will vote
a real treat:
     Over the square of ice in your punch bowl pour a quart of
Cognac Brandy, a pint of Bacardi or Jamaica rum and a pint
of peach brandy. Stir to mix well before adding four pounds
of powdered sugar, which now stir thoroughly to dissolve.
Add equal parts of lemon and lime juice, say, about a half
pint of each, and continue stirring until you feel sure all
ingredients are blended. Now garnish with three diced
lemons and oranges, and two shredded pineapples. Now let
the mixture stand for one to two hours, testing to decide
just when to serve in the usual punch glasses.
     This mixture makes about twenty-five drinks, so that you
may make more or less by gauging the ingredients from
formula.
                BRANDY BRIDGE PUNCH
    Now for another delightful brandy punch, this time for a
small party, say, of eight—two tables of bridge:
    Into your 2-quart, large-sized iced shaker pour eight wine
glassfuls (about 16 ounces) of brandy, either apricot, peach
or cognac, and add the same amount of carbonated water.
(If you have no carbonated or seltzer water, use ordinary
water). Now put in three tablespoonfuls of raspberry syrup
and sweeten the mixture to taste with "gum" or granulated
or powdered sugar. About two ounces of sugar might be
found sufficient.
Punches                                                    ^
   Thoroughly shake to chill mixture and to dissolve the
sugar.
   Now pour into eight tall, slender goblets equal portions
and garnish each glass with a half slice of lemon, a shce of
orange cut into halves and a quarter shce of pineapple. Fill
glass with cracked ice until about a half inch from rim. A few
raspberries, strawberries or whatever other berries may be in
season, can be placed on top.
   Use straws or glass sippers to imbibe this refreshing drink.
To make up enough for four, just divide the ingredients by
two; if for two persons, use the same method of reducing the
portions or make individually. To make more than eight,
proportion the ingredients accordingly.
                 BRANDY PORT PUNCH
   To one pint of brandy of any kind add two pints of Port
wine and two pints of "gum," stirring to mix thoroughly.
Now add cracked ice to your punch bowl and pour in two
quarts of carbonated or seltzer water. Add a pint of hme
juice, flavor with six tablespoonfuls of Arrack and the grated
oily yellow skins of four lemons. This makes about 35 to 40
punch glass drinks.
                BRANDY WHITE PUNCH
   On the ice square in your punch bowl pour a quart of
brandy and a bottle of white wine of any kind. Now add
about four ounces of Curacao and stir until thoroughly
mixed. Sweeten with "gum" to taste, usually a teacup full
wiU do. Squeeze out the juice of one and a half lemons and
stir briskly.
   This mixture will give about fifteen drinks. More or less
can be made by simply proportioning the ingredients.
                 BRANDY MILK PUNCH
   Your guests will like this Brandy Milk Pimch.
   Mix in a large container one quart of brandy in which the
rinds of three lemons have been steeped overnight, a quart of
46                                      What Shall We Drink?
milk, two teacups of "gum" and the juice of four lemons.
Stir thoroughly and strain through muslin into a punchbowl
of appropriate size containing cracked ice chunks. Stir
thoroughly to chill before serving. This mixture makes about
twenty drinks, and should be served in thin goblets. Some
folks like a sprinkling of nutmeg.
   If you prefer to use evaporated cream instead of the milk,
add to a half pint can of evaporated milk a pint and a half of
water, using as specified in the case of the mUk.
   For an individual brandy punch, here's one easy to make
and—easy to drink. Into a thick glass pour one and a haK
ounces of brandy and add an equal portion of hot water.
Sweeten to taste with "gum" and top with a thin half slice of
lemon, drinking while hot. It's a nice "bracer" after your
guests are gone and you are fagged. Also excellent for colds.
               HOT BRANDY RUM PUNCH
    Another hot brandy punch in high favor is this one:
   To one pint of brandy add one pint of rum and sweeten
with one teacup of "gum." Add juice of two lemons and
gratiags of the yellow rinds and about a teaspoonful of
grated nutmeg. Now pour into this mixture, stirring vigor
ously all the while, a quart of water as boiling hot as possible,
continuing the stirring until you are sure all ingredients have
been thoroughly mixed.
    Now strain through muslin into your punchbowl, ready
for serving. This mixture makes about fifteen drinks. If you
have a cold, this will help you, mixing one individually.
                      GIN PUNCHES
   And now,for a change, let us go to the gin punch, usually
made for small parties only, although there's no reason why
it cannot do service for larger groups as well.
    To a quart and a pint of gin add about six ounces of
Sherry wine and three pints of water. Cut off the rinds of
two lemons and place the rind chips into the mixture. Now
squeeze the juice of the lemons into a separate container,
Punches                                                        47
strain to remove pith, and add juice to the mixture. Stir
thoroughly after placing in the punch bowl chunks of cracked
ice to thoroughly chill the hquid, and then serve. This will
make about twenty drinks.
                     PINK GIN PUNCH
   Another dehghtful gin pvmch which must be served
VERY COLD is this:
   One pint of gin mixed with half pint of Maraschino
cordial and the juice of four lemons.
   Stir into this a pint of "gum" and then add two quarts of
carbonated water, stirring the contents in your punch bowl
before adding ice to chiU it. It is essential that the ingredients
he thoroughly mixed.
   Now,after a thorough chilling, add diced orange and pine
apple in whatever proportions you desire, and serve.
   This mixture gives about twenty to twenty-five drinks.
                   PORT WINE PUNCH
   Let us turn omr thoughts now to a wine pimch or two.
   A pleasant one to make and drink is the port wine pimch,
and here's how to make one:
    One quart of port wine is poured over the big ice square
in the center of your large punch bowl. This is followed with
a quart of Arrack, an East Indian alcoholic liquor obtained
from distilled palm wine or fermented rice. It is very sweet
and pecuharly adapted for using with all kinds of punches.
In fact, hostesses might experiment with it on some of the
punches herein described. But—back to our mixture of a
Port wine punch.
    Now that the Arrack is in the punch bowl,stir in the juice
of seven lemons and about a pint and a half of "gmn."
   Your punch now is ready for the addition of a quart of
carbonated water or seltzer, which should be added last in
order to preserve as much of its effervescent qualities as
possible. The stirring should only be sufficient to mix all
ingredients and then the resultant punch should be served
immediately.
48                                      What Shall We Drink?
    This will serve for thirty drinks.
   Hostesses can make other wine punches with Sherry,
Burgundy, Tokay, Muscatel and Chartreuse, using the above
formula as a guide, and introducing them to guests without
hesitation as dehghtful inventions of her own, or naming
them herself.
                   PICCADILLY PUNCH
    And now for a genuine treat, the Piccadilly Punch, made
with sloe gin as the "priceless ingredient." Let's make one
for two congenial souls:
    Into your shaker containing ice to chUl, pour two ounces
of sloe gin, an ounce of Benedictine, an ounce of sweet gin and
shake till the shaker almost shows a frost.
    Now into two thin goblets already filled with ice and
strained of water pour equal parts of the mixture from the
shaker. Squeeze a few drops of lemon juice into each glass,
a few drops of orange juice, and fill glasses with seltzer water,
stirring with spoon just long enough to distribute the fruit
juices.
  Now—a straw or glass sipper—and you'll be thinking of
Mount Olympus and the nectar of the gods.
                    HOT PORT PUNCH
     For a moderately large party, here is a hot wine punch
sure to please every guest:
   To one gallon of hot Port wine add two pinches each of
cinnamon and nutmeg, a pint of Arrack, the yellow peels of
four lemons in slivers, the juice of eight lemons and two tea
cups of "gum." Stir thoroughly and serve.
   You may make a aimilar hot wine punch with Sherry or
Burgundy instead of Port, using the same proportions.
   Inasmuch as hot punches usually suffice with one drink,
this mixture will serve at least thirty guests.
     If you have sixty guests, just double the quantities; if
ninety guests, use three times the amount of ingredients. If
less than thirty, proportion your mixture accordingly.
Punches                                                     ^
              A FINE CHAMPAGNE PUNCH
    Now for a frozen delight, the champagne punch.
    Into a gallon freezer pour a quart of champagne and one
and a half pints of Arrack,stirring for a few moments only.
Now add the juice of a half dozen lemons and the yeUow
rinds of three, two teacups of "gum" and two quarts of
seltzer or carbonated water. Stir thoroughly and let freeze,
serving as one would ices.
    If champagne is not available, the same proportions of
Rhine wines of various varieties or MoseUe Wine may be
used to produce a dehcious frozen punch.
                    PARISIAN PUNCH
    From England let's take a trip across the Channel to gay
Paree and start mixing a punch a la Parisienne. Here's how:
    Into your large punch bowl containing a large square of
ice pour a quart of Maraschino cordial, two quarts of seltzer
or carbonated water, two quarts of ginger ale, the juice of six
oranges and six lemons, and a half pint of Arrack. Stir
thoroughly until quite cold and serve in punch glasses. Be
cause the alcoholic content is not so strong, this is a delight
ful punch for one to imbibe freely. The mixture gives ap
proximately forty drinks.
                    REGENT'S PUNCH
    From England comes this rare treat, the Regent's Punch.
It requires more time than the ordinary punches, but the re
sults are worth the effort. In a large enamel container,
place the strained juice and yellow rinds of four oranges and
as many lemons. Then add a couple of broken sticks of
cianamon and vanilla flavoring extract not above a tea-
spoonful and then add a quart of "gum" or ordinary un-
flavored sugar syrup. Put container over slow fire and let
simmer for half or three-quarters of an hour; and after
turning off the flame and while it is stiU simmering;, add the
juice of eighteen oranges and about a pint of strong green
hot tea.
so                                     What Shall We Drinki
    Stir thoroughly while adding a pint of Arrack, a pint of
Cognac Brandy and a pint of Rum, preferably Jamaica, al
though other types of Rum will do. After completing the
stirring, strain the mixture through a mushn cloth into a
freezer and let stand untU thoroughly chUled and almost like
an ice. Now add a pint of Champagne. Serve as you will in
either punch glass or pipe stemmed sherry glasses. A drink
for aristocrats or one that makes you feel like one!
     This mixture should make from fifteen to twenty or more
drinks, depending upon which type glass you use.
                        CIDER PUNCH
    Again use the big punch bowl with its large block of ice in
the center for pouring into it two quarts of cold cider, a
quart of seltzer or carbonated water, six ounces of brandy,
a half pint of Sherry and enough "gum" to suit your taste for
sweetness. Thinly shce two lemons, cut the sfices into
halves and add to the mixture. Now stir thoroughly and
serve in pipe stemmed sherry or punch glasses.
     This mixture will give you about twenty-five drmks.
                  RYE WHISKY PUNCH
    Let's make this one just for us two:Pour into your shaker
containing a small amount of ice to chill mixture, six ounces
of rye whisky and add two teaspoonsful of lemon juice and
a tablespoonful of "gum." Shake thoroughly and strain into
two punch glasses half full of shaved ice. Garnish with a
half shce of orange and a thin spear-head of pineapple. It's
"stiff" but dehciousl
                        SCOTCH PUNCH
     Then try this one:—this time for a gathering of friends:
     Drag out the punch bowl and put into it cracked ice for
chilling purposes. Into the ice pour two quarts of Scotch
whisky,two quarts of seltzer or carbonated water, juice of a
half dozen lemons and thin sUvers of the yellow rinds, and
about two teacups of "gum." Stir thoroughly and serve.
You have enough for thirty drinks in this portion.
Punches                                                  M
                    WHISKY PUNCH
   There are many varieties of whisky pimches, but these
that foUow will be found almost universally satisfactory and
may be used as the bases for your own inventive genius in
adding other ingredients.

                 HOT WHISKY PUNCH
    Now let's try a hot whisky punch, just the two of us.
    Use either Rye or Scotch, Bourbon or Irish six ounces.
Add one and a half teacups of hot water and "gum" to taste
for sweetness. Stir well and pour into heavy glasses, adding
a thin slice of lemon or orange, as you desire.
               ORANGE WHISKY PUNCH
   And here's another:
   Four ounces of whisky (rye or Scotch) go into your iced
shaker,followed by two ounces of orange syrup and "gum" to
suit your sweet tooth. To this give one dash of Angostura
Bitters, three dashes of Orange Bitters, and the juice of a
half sHce of pineapple—approximately two teaspoons will do.
Now shake thoroughly and divide into two twelve-ounce
glasses evenly. Put into each glass some shaved ice and fill
with seltzer or carbonated water, stirring with spoon and
then imbibing through straws or glass sippers. A dash of
Arrack in each portion is enjoyable.

               MARASCHINO FRUIT PUNCH
   Here's another Maraschino fruit punch that trying will
prove very acceptable.
   Is your very big punchbowl ready with cracked ice? All
right, let's go. We must speed up, for this time we have a
large party.
   Pour in three gallons of water, seltzer or carbonated
water, as you wish. Now add the juice of a dozen lemons and
a dozen oranges, eight ounces of Maraschino cordial, a quart
of brandy (preferably peach), a pint of Grenadine,"gum" to
taste, and stir. Now add two quarts of whole cherries,
52                                      What Shall We Drink?
fifteen oranges sliced and the slices halved, seven lemons
sliced thin and the slices halved, and about a poiind of diced
pineapple.
    Stir and stir until thoroughly chilled, then serve or let
your guests help themselves at will, using lemonade glasses
partly filled with ice. There's plenty to go around, as this
mixture makes about eighty "long" drinks and even more
"short" ones, if you prefer to serve it in small slender goblets.

                  WHISKY WHITE PUNCH
    Another good one is made of a pint of whisky, a half
bottle of any white wine, about three ounces of Curacao,
half a lemon squeezed into the potion, "gum" to suit taste
and a generous triple squirt of vichy, seltzer or carbonated
water to add a bit of effervescence. Shake well in iced shaker
and serve your guests in Sherry glasses. This should make
about fifteen drinks of this size. Some folks add a touch of
Arrack. Try it.
                  MARASCHINO PUNCH
   Here's a Maraschino punch for a party sure to please all.
   Get out your large punch bowl generously treated with
cracked ice. Pour into it four quarts of seltzer or carbonated
water and add three ounces of Axrack and a pint of Mara
schino cordial (or more, if you prefer). Then cut into halves
a half pound Maraschino cherries and add to the liquid
without using the juice from the bottle they were in, and the
juice of two lemons. Stir till very cold. Then serve in the
usual punch glasses. This mixture makes about thirty-odd
drinks.
                        ALE PUNCH
     There are some folks who still cUng to the old-fashioned
ale punch in America, although it is quite popular overseas,
in England especially. Here's the usual recipe they follow:
    Into a large porcelain stewpan pour one quart of old ale
and add one pint of boiHng water, seven ounces of Rum and
the same amount of rye or Scotch whisky and gin. Now
Punches                                                      W
slice a lemon thin and place in mixture, sweeten with "gum"
to satisfy your own taste, add a pinch of cinnamon, powdered
cloves and grated nutmeg. Turn on your gas flame to effect
a slow heating but do not let boil. The moment it begins to
simmer remove from fire, let cool a few moments, then strain
through muslin into your punch bowl, add some quarter
slices of oranges and lemons and serve immediately in punch
glasses. Enough for twelve.

                  AN ARRACK PUNCH
    At least one Arrack punch ought to be slipped into this
array, and here's one calculated to tempt the palate of
Jupiter himself:
    Get out the punch bowl again and put in some cracked
ice—not too much, because this little party is only for fifteen
one-glass guests.
    Into the ice pour a pint of Arrack and a pint of carbonated
water or seltzer. Now, while stirring, add a pint of good old
Port or Sherry wine and the juice of three lemons. Then
sweeten to taste with "gum"—about a cup and a half may
suffice. Stir it thoroughly and serve in punch glasses.
    Your guests may like it so well that they may want you
to mix another round, which, of course, you will be delighted
to do.
                 A RASPBERRY PUNCH
   Perhaps you will like a taste of Raspberry Punch. It
won't hurt for just us two to try this, at any rate:
   After putting a few splinters of cracked ice into the shaker,
pour in a tablespoonful of raspberry syrup and add six ounces
of brandy, with "gum" to sweeten as desired. Now pour in
ahout six ounces of carbonated water or seltzer and shake till
very cold. Pour into tumblers filled with shaved ice. I'll
have mine decorated on top with a couple of berries in season
and a few cubes of pineapple. You'U try it, too? Fine!
   Yes, it might be a nice thing to serve this at your next
bridge party. Just use the ingredients in proportion as you
54                                    What Shall We Drink?
may wish, whether the party is a foursome, a two or a three
table affair.
    Now for a few milk punches, and then on to other varie
ties, for we have many to cover.

                     MILK PUNCHES
    While milk punches are excellent for the sick, they're not
a bit bad for the healthy, and it is well to know how to mix a
few for either type of drinker.
    Here's an individual punch, which you may multiply as
many times as you wish, to serve as many as required:
    Get out the shaker and put in a few pieces of cracked ice.
Now pour in about five ounces of milk (or two ounces of
evaporated cream diluted with three ounces of water) and
add to this three ounces of whisky, or brandy, or five
ounces of Sherry, as you feel inclined to use either. Sweeten
to taste with "gvun," shake thoroughly and pour into a large
tumbler partly fiUed with shaved ice. Drink from rim or use
straw or glass sippers, as you wish.
    Some persons like to add an egg after it has been beaten,
but if egg is added, do not attempt to sip wdth straw or glass
sipper. It might be preferable, besides, to strain the mixture
through a sieve when pouring into tumbler.
                  COCOAMILK PUNCH
     A punch the ladies like, bless 'em, is mixed Hke this:
     Into an iced shaker pour eight ounces of milk and add
two to three ounces of Creme de Cocoa and the white of one
egg. Shake well and serve into a 12-ounce glass, filUng glass
with a fine stream of vichy or seltzer. Obviously,for two you
will take twice as much,for three thrice as much, etc.
                 BRANDY MILK PUNCH
    And here's another milk punch:
    Pour into shaker two ounces of brandy and an ounce and
a half of rum. Add "gum" to taste and about four teaspoons
of water. Shake and pour into tumbler partly filled with
Punches                                                    SS
shaved ice. Fill to top with milk and stir. Top with grated
nutmeg and sip from rim or through straw or glass sipper.
   Either of these drinks may also be made as hot drinks
by merely stirring in glasses after milk has been heated.
Don't heat the other ingredients.

                   RUM MILK PUNCH
   That shaker has to be kept busy with this rum milk punch:
   Pour into the ice contents one pint milk and two and a
half ounces of rum, the juice of a half lemon and half orange.
Add one egg and shake until your arms ache. Now pour into
tumbler containing shaved ice and top off with some grated
nutmeg. If you don't hke this, see your doctor.

                   GIN MILK PUNCH
   Then there's the gin milk punch. Didn't know about
such a drink, did you? Well, here's how to mix one:
   Into a large tumbler half full of ice pour an ounce of gin
and add a half ounce of Bacardi rum. Fill with milk and stir
thoroughly with a spoon. Now strain into tall, thin glass of
the Pilsner type and top with grapenuts or grated nutmeg.
Like it?
              MAKING PUNCH ROMAINE
   The Punch Romaine is a delightful treat and is worth
whatever httle trouble it requires to make. Into your ice-
prepared punch bowl pour the strained juice of eight lemons,
four oranges and three pints of gum. Mix by stirring a bit.
Now beat the whites of eight to ten eggs until they are
frothy and add gradually to the mixture while stirring.
When well distributed, pour in one quart of rum and one
bottle of any kind of wine you hke best, stirring thoroughly
before serving. Here's enough for twelve to fifteen drinks.
             MAKING A CURACAO PUNCH
    Just for a change try this one-drink formula and if you
like the Curacao Punch, just follow the proportions for larger
amounts. Into a goblet pour three ounces of Curacao, and
S6                                       What Shall We Drink?
add two ounces of brandy, an ounce of rum and a half tea
spoon of strained lemon juice. Sweeten to taste and stir
vigorously with spoon. Now fill glass with finely shaved
ice, decorate with fruits in season and imbibe through straw
or glass sippers.
               MAKING A NECTAR PUNCH
    The Nectar Punch requires more than ordinary time and
care in preparing, but it's worth it! Cut off peels (yellow part
only) of a dozen lemons and steep in porcelain pot for two
full days in five piuts of rum. Then add two quarts of
chilled water or carbonated water if you fike, and the strained
juice of the lemons. Now pour in two quarts of boihng hot
milk, stirring vigorously as you now sift into the mixture one
finely grated nutmeg. Cover the pot closely and let stand
for twenty-four hours. Then stir in not quite three pounds
of granulated sugar, strain through musfin, into punch bowl,
ready for use, or bottle if you wish it later. Enough here for
30 to 40 drinks.
              MIXING A PUNCH IMPERIAL
   The Punch Imperial is defightful. Let's make enough for
a nineteenth hole quartet after a warm round of golf.
   Have the steward produce pronto a large pitcher and four
high slender goblets. The pitcher should have a generous
supply of cracked ice to chill one bottle of Claret and a quart
bottle of seltzer or carbonated water; four pinches of pow
dered nutmeg, two ounces of Maraschino cordial, a few
thinly sliced sfivers of cucumber rind, "gum" to suit taste,
and a dash of Arrack for good measure. Stir thoroughly and
serve. You'll feel hke another round—of golf, perhaps!

     MAKING AN OLD-FASHIONED MILK PUNCH
    The Old-Fashioned Milk Punch certainly will renew its
popularity in the post-Prohibition era. You must know how
to make it, so here's the little secret: Into a large goblet pour
an ounce and a half of brandy and the same amount of rum.
Punches                                                   57
Stir to mix, then add a tablespoon of "gum," stirring again
while adding thinly shaved ice until the glass is half full;
then fresh milk, thoroughly stirred. Top with nutmeg
gratings and enjoy the drink.
               MIXING A ROMAN PUNCH
   Not to know how to mix a Roman Punch will prove a real
embarrassment to the hostess if her guests suggest such a
preference, so here's the formula;
   FiU a tumbler half full of snowy ice and pour over it one
ounce of brandy, one and a half ounces of rum, a quite scant
ounce of Curacao, the strained juice of a half orange, a dash
of lemon juice, "gum" to suit taste, and stir thoroughly.
Garnish top with fruits or berries in season and drink with
straw or glass sippers.
              MIXING AN ORANGE PUNCH
   This Orange Punch really is dehcious. Slice five oranges
and cut into eighths. Put in porcelain pot, cover oranges
with one poimd sugar, and pour on two quarts of boiling
hot water. Let stand to steep for three-quarters of an hour.
Now strain into your punch bowl containing cracked ice and
add one pint of brandy, one pint of Jamaica nun, three-
quarters of a pint of Porter, an ounce of Arrack and two
ounces of Curacao or Maraschino cordial, as you prefer.
Stir till well chilled and serve in punch glasses.
               MIXING A LEMON PUNCH
   Follow the instructions for the Orange Punch above,
using five lemons instead of five oranges.
            MIXING A ROCHESTER PUNCH
   Get out your large punch bowl and surround with ice.
Have ingredients of the Rochester Punch well chilled before
mixing as follows: Four bottles of sparkling Catawba, two
bottles of Sauteme, four bottles of sparkling Isabelle, one
pint of Curacao, one pint of Maraschino cordial, all of which
mix thoroughly. Now garnish with strawberries at will,
 58                                      What Shall We Drink?

 either cutting in halves or letting them be whole. If not in
 season, canned berries will do, or you might try canned or
 fresh peaches sliced into slivers. Serve in punch glasses or,
 if you prefer, in Sherry glasses. This should furnish enough
 for a large crowd, gauging the number of drinks at between
 sixty and seventy. Of course, we're figuring on "polite"
 drinks not tumblersful.

                 THE REGIMENT PUNCH
    Let's imagine a quartet of jolly oflicers indulging in a
round and toasting with the Regiment Punch. Here's
enough for the four of them; A half pint of French Brandy, a
half pint of Catawba wine, about three ounces of raspberry
syrup, a tablespoonful of strained lemon juice, "gum" to
taste and mixed till very cold by shaking in shaker. Pour for
the gallant soldiers and into each of the four glasses put a
few dice of pineapple (fresh or canned), a quarter shce lemon
and, because soldiers are supposed to drink like he-men, add
to each glass a generous dash of rum. If they hke to drink it
off, it's their affair, but some hke the drinks put into goblets,
filled with fine ice and taken with straws or glass sippers.
Take your choice.
    Here's another variation of the Regiment Punch:
   Let's serve it as the second round to our four officers of
the regiment. No ice, this time, but you can mix it in the
shaker. To two wine glasses of Irish Whisky add two wine
glasses of Scotch Whisky, two tablespoonfuls of strained
lemon juice, one of orange juice, two tablespoons of "gum"
and one pint of boiling hot water. Stir thoroughly and let
'em have it.

         MIXING A HOLLAND HOUSE PUNCH
   From the lamented days of yore comes this fine old
Holland House Punch. Mix it in a crock or shaker without
ice. We'U change the scene and imagine a quartet in the old
days in the old Holland House calling for it. Let's go:
Pour out a half pint of Scotch Whisky—the finest obtain-
Punches                                                    W
able for this drink. Add two ounces of ginger ale and four
teaspoons of sugar. Now add a pint of boiling water into
container while stirring briskly and serve in heat-resisting
small goblets, topped with a bit of sliced lemon. Hear those
four bon vivants smacking their hps?

              MIXING A TIP TOP PUNCH
    Bless my soul! Here's another oldtimer come to roost on
the crossbars of memory—the Tip Top Punch. Let's have it
at our "stag"foursome of bridge. There are times when even
the ladies are sweeter for their absence. Mix in a punch
bowl—for they're hearty, tumbler size drinks, men. First
dress bowl with cracked ice and pour in a pint of brandy, five
tablespoons of "gum," two ounces of Arrack, two teaspoons
of lemon juice strained. Add a pint of champagne, stir well
and serve in finely chipped ice, crowned with fruits in season,
and using straw or glass sippers. Don't take too much, boys,
even if you do vote it a masterpiece.
            MIXING AN ABSINTHE PUNCH
   Just one of these Absinthe Punches, please. Don't make
'em a habit. Remember Marie CoreUi's novel "Worm
wood"? Let it warn you to beware! Mix in shaker with
cracked ice two ounces of Absinthe, one ounce of brandy, a
tablespoonful of Orgeat syrup or cordial, the strained juice of
a half lemon, "gum" to taste and shake moderately. Pour
into thin goblet containing finely shaved ice, decorate with
fruit in season and sip slowly.
                  HOT WHISKY PUNCH
    For a simple hot punch on a cold day, or in case of ill
ness, this Whisky Punch is easily made up: Into heat re
sisting tumbler pour one wine-glass of whisky(Rye,Bourbon,
 Scotch or Irish) and add two lumps of sugar and a quarter
teaspoon of lemon juice. Fill glass with hot water, stir well
and on top let a half slice of lemon float. Substitute brandy
 for whisky if you wish.
 60                                    What Shall We Drink?
                MIXING A CANADIAN PUNCH
    We can almost forgive Canada for raising tariff walls
 against the United States when we drink this Canadian
Punch. Into the punch bowl hned with cracked ice, go two
quarts of Canadian Rye Whisky, five shced lemons, one and
a half pints Jamaica Rum (or any other kind if you like), the
half slices of one pineapple or the canned, if not available.
Now pour in, stirring all the while, one gallon (four quart
bottles) of seltzer, vichy or carbonated water, add two
ounces of Arrack and a half pint of "gum." Serve in punch
glasses—about thirty-five drinks at your service.
                MIXING AN ORGEAT PUNCH
      The Orgeat Punch is a real delight. Try one: Into shaker
partly filled with finely shaved ice pour three teaspoons of
Orgeat S3mip, three ounces of brandy, a quarter teaspoon of
strained lemon juice and shake till thoroughly chilled. Pour
into thin tiunbler, fill with fine ice almost like snow, add a
dash of Port or Sherry wine, a few bits of fruit in season, and
drink with straw or glass sipper.

            MIXING A FROSTED RUM PUNCH
   Have your shaker ready wdth some finely chipped ice.
Pour in three ounces of fine rum (any kind), add a half tea
spoon of strained lemon juice and "gum" to taste, say, about
two teaspoons. Shake well and poiu into thin goblet almost
filled with snowy ice, add a dash of Arrack and top with
your favorite fruit or berries. Use straw or glass sipper.
              MIXING AN EGG MILK PUNCH
    Here's a delicious Egg Milk Punch fit for a King! Made
individually, it spells real art in mixing. Carefully now,
follow instructions: Use shaker to break in one fresh egg,
one and a half ounces of French brandy, two and a half
oimces fine rum, a quarter teaspoon of strained lemon juice
and a teaspoon and a half of powdered sugar. Add to this,
estimating, enough milk to make the mixture fiU a goblet.
Punches                                                     ^
Now shake so thoroughly with finely shaved ice in container
that it whips to a creamy consistency. Strain into goblet
and imbibe through straw or glass sipper. A bit of nutmeg
grating on top helps, but isn't necessary.

              IMPERIAL BRANDY PUNCH
   This Imperial Brandy Punch is recommended for a
"stag" of eight or ten. Mix in punch bowl containing cracked
ice, one quart and one pint of brandy, a pint and a half of
rum, a pint and a half of "gum," haU pint raspberry syrup,
two ounces of Curacao, juice of one lemon, half slices of one
orange, two quarts of vichy, seltzer or carbonated water,
and diced canned or fresh pineapple to suit taste. Stir well
and enjoy your party with a couple of drinks each aU around.
                   PINEAPPLE PUNCH
   Your party of eight might Uke this one, instead:
   Into the ice-treated punch bowl pour three pints of ice
cold champagne and a quarter pint each of rum and brandy.
Add two ounces of Curacao, the juice of one lemon and
enough "gum" to satisfy your sweet tooth. Now put in
one can of shredded pineapple or less, if you wish, or diced
fresh pineapple or canned slices. Serve at once in hoUow
stemmed glasses. If you prefer to avoid contact of ice with
mixture, it will take longer to set mixture aside in ice pack or
freezer. That's up to your taste, time—and thirst.
                MIXING A PUNCH ROYAL
   They say King George likes this Punch Royal—but of
course there's no way of proving it. But it's a bet His Royal
Highness, the Prince of Wales, can't get more enjoyment out
of it than we can, as we mix one now and drink together, you
and I:
    We'll need a porcelain receptacle or heavy glass container
to resist heat,for on top of four ounces of brandy,two ounces
of Jamaica rum, one ounce of Curacao, one ounce of Arrack,
the juice of one lime,two tablespoons of calf'sfootjelly bought
62                                      What Shall We Drink?

beforehand in a delicatessen, we are going to pour a half pint
of boiling hot tea. Stir quickly and serve so as to have as
warm as possible, in two thick goblets or thick punch glasses.
If there's a bit left over, well, let's share it.
             MIXING A MISSISSIPPI PUNCH
    From Dixie comes this one, the Mississippi Punch, and,
like all the Southland's concoctions, it soothes the thirst and
pleases the palate. Let's mix for two in a shaker holding some
cracked ice to chill well. First pour in one and a half ounces
of Bourbon Whisky and the same amount of Jamiaca rum.
Now add three ounces of brandy, a teaspoon of lemon juice
strained, "gum" to suit taste and a few dashes of vichy or
seltzer. Shake well and pour into two glasses partly j&lled
with finely shaved ice, crowning with fruit and a sprig of
bruised mint leaf. Use straw or glass sipper for this delicacy.
          MIXING THE PHILADELPHIA PUNCH
   Here's an individual Philadelphia Punch from which you
may estimate for larger portions, if you like it. Into a large
tumbler pour a pony of brandy, two ounces of rum, two
dashes of lemon juice, two tablespoons of gum. Stir thor
oughly and add one ounce of Arrack. Now fill glass with fine
ice, decorate with fruit in season and drink through straw or
glass sipper. It's cooling.
          MIXING A CENTURY CLUB PUNCH
   I still remember my enjojunent of this punch when a guest
of some member of the old Century Club in New York and I
am happy to pass on its ingredients:
    One quart of Jamaica rum, one quart of old Santa Cruz
rum,if still obtainable as it was then, two and a half quarts of
vichy or seltzer. White Rock or carbonated water, the juice of
one lemon, a dash of Maraschino cordial and of,Creme de
Menthe,"gum" to suit taste, all stirred well in a large punch
bowl and served at will in pimch glasses or Sherry glasses.
   This mixture should produce about twenty-five fair-sized
drinks.
Punches                                                     W
          MIXING THE ST. CHARLES PUNCH
   Gracious! Here's one of my long ago favorites! The St.
Charles Punch will please you,too, I'll wager. Try this: Pour
into shaker holding ice, a pony of brandy, two ounces of
Port wine, a tablespoon of lemon juice and "gum" to taste.
Shake well and pour into goblet, filling it with finely crushed
ice. Top off with your favorite fruits or berries, add just one
more dash of Port wine and put your straw or glass sipper
into the mixture ready for a treat!


    Your own ingenuity, after you study these punch recipes,
will undoubtedly lead you on to the devising of even more
enjoyable mixtures. Variations in the use of cordials and
flavoring syrups will suggest themselves. At least, you'll
enjoy those in this array from the master-mixers of the
yesterdays.
                                          Chapter in

                              How To Make Cups
                    Among the many delights of the table which repeal of
                 Prohibition has restored to the American home are the
                 "cups"—not hiccups, for there shouldn't be any in the
                 dehcious concoctions we shall now discuss. Hostesses will
                 welcome their new opportunity to provide these treats for
                 their guests.
                             HOW TO MAKE A LOVING CUP
                     Into a jug pour a half bottle of Madeira wine, three tea
                 cups of water, three and a half ounces of brandy and the thin
                 slices of two lemons, adding about half a teacup of "gum" to
                 the mixtvue. Now add one drop of balm essence, a highly
                 aromatic product of the balm tree or shrub. Some persons
                 also add a sprig or two of borage, but it isn't necessary. Now
                 cover your jug and bury it in cracked ice. If you haven't a
                 jug or other conveniences for this Httle rite, use an ice cream
                 freezer, placing your receptacle into the tin. Let it stand for
                 about an hour to an hour and a half and then,just when ready
                 to serve, pour into the jug or other container one bottle of
                 cold sparkling champagne. Shake a bit and serve at once.
                              MAKING A CHAMPAGNE CUP
                    Into a large container, preferably deep and surrounded
                 with ice, like a freezer, pour a quart bottle of champagne and
                 two quarts of seltzer or carbonated water. Cover and let
                 stand for one hour to be thoroughly chiUed. In fact, never
                 serve any champagne or sparkling wine drinks unless you
                 have made them as cold as possible. Now, while you are
                 waiting for the chiUing to take place, peel a lemon and cut
                 peel into strips like Julienne potatoes, set out two ounces of
                 brandy and have your Maraschino cordial bottle at hand
                 ready to use a teaspoonful.
                                              64



"i"i i'ii yti'
Cups                                                       ^
   As you are about to serve, add the strips of lemon peel to
the champagne and seltzer, stir in the two ounces of brandy
and teaspoon of Marschino, and serve. This mixture will
provide "cups" for at least fifteen.

                  MAKING A WINE CUP
   A large glass pitcher of the lemonade-containing type may
be used to pour into it one pint of ice-cold champagne and a
pint of chilled Claret wine,three ounces of French brandy and
three ounces of Curacao. Stir gently and add one pint of
highly charged seltzer or carbonated water (some use Apol-
linaris). Now put in an orange sliced and the slices cut into
fours, and a thinly sliced lemon. To this may be added a few
sprigs of fresh, bruised mint leaves or an ounce of Creme de
Menthe and, if desired, a couple of cucumber rind shavings.
To make up for the loss in chill, due to the additions of the
fruits, etc., use cracked ice sparingly—not more than four or
five tablespoonfuls.
   Some persons do not add the mint leaves to the mixture,
but cut them into small pieces to be floated on top of the cups
when served. It is a matter of personal choice, either way.
Mint leaves are sometimes diflficult to get fresh and the Creme
de Menthe offers an excellent substitute. If you like more
mint, flavor than here suggested, by all means flavor to suit
your own taste.
                 MAKING CLARET CUPS
   Claret cups are easy to make and very popular. Here are a
few suggestions, from which you may be able to devise some
of your own even more tempting and delicious.
   Use a glass pitcher to mix one cold bottle of Claret wine,
a quart of cold seltzer or carbonated water, half a sliced and
quartered lemon and a cup of "gum." Stir and serve at once
or put in freezer till wanted. It must be kept cold to be most
palatable. A dozen ice cubes will help this lo-cup mixture.
   Here's another Claret Cup you'll like; Mix in your pitcher
one bottle of cold Claret wine, a quarter of seltzer or carbon-
66                                     What Shall We Drink?

ated water and one cup of "gum." Drop into this about three
strips of lemon rind and three of cuciunber rind, then mix
and put in freezer for one hour. When ready to serve, mix in
six ounces of Curacao and have your ten guests hail you as
champion cup maker of your circle!
                   SHERRY WINE CUP
    Pour into your pitcher containing about four tablespoons
of finely shaved ice one bottle of Sherry Wine and a half bottle
of Claret, both well chilled. Add six ounces of Peach Brandy
and two ounces of Maraschino, a quarter cup of "gum" and a
pint of cold seltzer or carbonated water. Stir thoroughly and
serve, adding to each portion a float of halved strawberries,
or cherries or raspberries, as preferred. If these are not
available a couple of pineapple dice and a small section of
bruised table mint leaf are tasty.
               SHERRY AND CLARET CUP
   And here's another combination of Sherry and Claret
which makes a defightful cup.
    Mix in your pitcher a pint of chilled Claret and a pint of
chilled Sherry,two ounces of brandy, one and a half ounces of
Maraschino cordial and a half ounce of Creme de Noyeau, an
almond flavored liqueur which adds a tempting flavor to the
mixture. Stir thoroughly to mix all ingredients. If you wish
it sweet, add "gum" to taste. To retain the chill you might
put into the pitcher a few tablespoons of shaved ice, but not
more,lest you dilute the wines too much. Serve with decora
tions of fruit in season floating on top. Some hostesses serve
with thin sUce of cucumber rind floating on top. This serves
eight.
                      MOSELLE CUP
    And now for a larger quantity in a Moselle cup.
    Use your jug or an enamel covered cooking pot, gallon
size, for mixing. Pour in two bottles of Moselle wine and a
pint of Curacao, add the juice of two lemons strained and cut
the rind into thin strips, which put into mixture. Now add
Cups                                                        ^
H
 gum" to sweeten to taste, stir well, add shaved ice to keep
cold for a half hour, and to permit ingredients to blend well.
Just before serving pour in two quarts of seltzer or carbonated
water and stir shghtly, serving while effervescence is still re
tained. The top of each cup may be garnished with diced
pineapple or small sprigs of mint. This should suflBce for
more than twenty guests. If fewer, use proportionately of
ingredients. If more, do hkewise.
                     BURGUNDY CUP
    Into your lemonade pitcher put cracked ice to about one-
quarter of the depth. Pour into pitcher a quart bottle of
Burgundy wine, a pony of cognac brandy, a pony of Curacao,
a pony of apricotine and a pint of seltzer, carbonated water
or Apollinaris. Now add "gum" to taste, say, about a haK
pint, or less or more, as you wish it sweeter or less sweet.
Shoe one lemon and one orange thin and put into pitcher.
Add thin strips of a cucumber rind. Stir thoroughly both to
chill and to mix ingredients. Serve in stem glasses topped
with whatever fruit in season you like best. This should serve
about fifteen "cups."
                       PORTER CUP
    For an excellent Porter cup mix in covered jug or other
receptacle one quart of Porter, one quart of ale, a half pint of
French brandy, a small spoon syrup of ginger, three table
spoons of "gum," a teaspoon of carbonate of soda, one thinly
sliced cucumber and stir thoroughly. Now pack your jug in
ice or, on a Winter day,stand it outdoors covered for a half to
three-quarters of an hour before serving in glass "cups."
 Garnish with fruit, if desired. This makes fifteen portions.
                     HOT CLARET CUP
    For a nice hot Claret cup mix in your jug two quarts of
 Claret,one ounce of ginger syrup,five drops essence of ginger
 and one quart of boiling hot water. Let stand after mixing
 until moderately hot, and then serve. Enough for fifteen to
 twenty, according to size of "cups" used.
68                                    What Shall We Drink?
                  CUP A LA PARISEENNE
    A "Cup a la Parisienne" is made Uke tills: Into a deep jug
or container bedded in ice or placed in your freezer, pour a
chilled quart of champagne, two quarts of chUled seltzer or
carbonated water, and let stand for about an hour. When
ready to serve, pour into a punch bowl on top of a tablespoon
of Absinthe, a tablespoon of"gum"and afew sprigs of verbena
or table mint. Serve in hollow stemmed sparkling Burgundy
glasses. Portion wiU make about fifteen "cups."
                      BURGPORT CUP
   Another fine Burgundy cup is made by pouring into your
ice-surrounded jug or pitcher one quart Burgundy wine, two
quarts of seltzer or carbonated water, three ounces of
Chartreuse,the juice of one lemon and two oranges,two sprigs
of thyme,two tablespoons of"gum"and thin shavings from a
small cucumber. Let stand for one hour after thoroughly
stirring. When serving add to the mixture one pint of Port
wine. This should do for at least twenty.

                      BACCHUS CUP
     Now let's mix a Bacchus Cup for, say, twenty. Pour into
your ice-chilled jug or other receptacle one quart of cham
pagne,three ounces of French brandy,four ounces of Noyeau,
one pint of Sherry wine, a few leaves of balm and two table
spoons of "gum." Mix and let stand for ten minutes. Then
add not more than ten cubes of ice and two quarts of seltzer
or carbonated water, stir vigorously for a half minute, then
serve at once in sparkhng Burgundy hollow stem glasses.
Top with fruit, if desired.

                PARTY CHAMPAGNE CUP
     Here's a champagne cup for a party of, say^, fifty, who
might like two "cups" each. Get out your biggest punch
bowl, for it must hold more than four gallons. Have all your
ingredients well chilled. Pour into bowl one quart Cognac,
one quart of Tokay,four bottles of seltzer, carbonated water
Cups                                                       ^
or ApoUinaris, six ounces of pineapple syrup, a haK dozen
sprigs of balm, one quart of Curacao, one pint of green
Chartreuse and the thin slices of two lemons and six oranges
cut into halves. Stir thoroughly and let stand for forty-five
minutes in cold place or packed with ice. Strain into an
other bowl and add six bottles of cold champagne, garnishing
with diced cubes of one pineapple, serving at once, in either
champagne or the smaller hollow-stemmed sparkling Bur
gundy glasses. The latter wiU "spread" this delightful
"cup" over a larger crowd than the bigger-sized glass.
                        APPLE CUP
   For an Apple Cup, try this: Slice four large apples and
leave parings on apple sections. Put into porcelain vessel
and just cover with boiling water, letting them stand under
cover for whatever time it requires to cool. Now strain into
pitcher and add a pint of cider and three ounces of fine old
cognac brandy. Add "gum" to sweeten as you like and serve
in "cup" each having a tablespoonful of shaved ice. Or you
may add enough ice to bowl to chill mixture. This will
serve about ten.
                   THE CUP ARISTOCRAT
    Now to try The Cup Aristocrat: Chill all ingredients
first, then pour out into punch bowl two bottles of Claret, one
quart of champagne, three ounces of Maraschino cordial,
 balm and borage to suit your own flavor taste, and "gum" as
 you like to sweeten. Add two quarts of seltzer, carbonated
 water or ApoUinaris and serve at once, topping each glass
 with fruits if desired. This wiU serve at least thirty.
                     CAMBRIDGE CUP
    Now for the famous Cambridge Cup, which is so simply
 made that a child can mix it. Pour into your small bowl one
 chiUed bottle of Claret wine and a haU bottle of chiUed
 Sherry wine. Mix and serve with fruit decorations if you
 wish. Nice for a party of eight. If more than one "cup" is
 desired, double the quantity.
 70                                      What Shall We Drink?
                      ZELTLINGER CUP
      The Zeltlinger Cup is much relished, too. Here's how to
 mix it: First thoroughly chill ingredients. Then pour out
 one quart of Zeltlinger, a half pint of brandy or Sherry, five
 slices of pineapple cut into sixteenths like spear-heads, two
 tablespoons of "gum", the strained juice of a lemon and a
 few shavings of the yellow section only of the rind, and one
 ounce of Arrack. Now after stirring thoroughly to mix, add
 one quart of Seltzer, carbonated water or ApoUinaris, stir
 gently and serve at once. This is ample for fifteen.
                         CIDER CUPS
    Now for two delightful Cider Cups. The first is made by
pouring into your container one pint of cider, three ounces of
Sherry wine, three ounces of Curacao, three oimces of French
brandy, the slices of a half orange, "gmn" to suit taste and
the yellow rind of one lemon cut into sHvers. Add ice to chill
well and stir thoroughly before serving into those empty
glasses of your bridge foursome.
    Here's the other Cider Cup: Mix one quart very cold
cider and one quart cold seltzer or carbonated water. Pour
in about three ounces of Brandy or Sherry wine, as you wish.
Add a few strips of lemon rind and, if you like it, a few slices
of the green cucumber rind. Now flavor with a tablespoonful
of lemon juice strained, sweeten to taste and serve before
chiU is lost. Top glasses with fruit if desired. This mil
serve about a dozen to fifteen.

                     SAUTERNE CUP
   Now for a Sauterne Cup: Chill all ingredients first, then
pour into your medium punch bowl one quart of Sauterne,
one pint of seltzer or carbonated water, three ounces of
French brandy,an ounce of Creme de Menthe,thi:ee ounces of
Curacao, one orange and one lemon sliced thin and the slices
cut into halves. Sweeten to taste, stir thoroughly and serve
with a piece of bruised table mint leaf floating in each glass.
This gives about eight—enough for a two-table bridge group.
Cups                                                          ^
                        HOCK CUP
   Without at least one Hock Cup this book were incomplete.
So let's mix one thus: ChiU all ingredients thoroughly first.
Then pour into bowl containing a half dozen small cubes of
ice one quart of Hock wine, one quart of seltzer or carbonated
water, three ounces of Arrack, a half pint Curacao, the
strained juice of a half lemon and its yellow shvers of lind
and "g\un" to taste. Stir thoroughly and serve immediately
with fruit decorations if wished. Yes, this will do for 12 to
15 drinks according to size of glass.
   A variation of the Hock Cup can be made by using three
ounces of Benedictine, or, to add a rich coloring, four ounces
of Grenadine.
                CLARET AND SHERRY CUP
   Here's a wonderful Claret Cup that wiU tickle the palate
of your most fastidious guest. Use your large punch bowl for
mixing three bottles of Claret, one and a half pints of Sherry,
a half pint of French brandy, a scant pint of Curacao, six
ounces of raspberry syrup, shces of one lemon and three
oranges, two quarts of soda water and three quarts of seltzer.
Add a few sprigs of balm and borage and a thin strip of
cucumber rind. Then sweeten with "gum" to taste and let
 stand one hour. Strain and keep iced for one hour. Serve in
 small glasses. This should give more than 60 drinks.
                CLARET CUP A LA SALTOUN
    Now for one more Claret Cup which has been a London
 favorite for years and bears the name of Lord Saltoun:
 Peel a lemon free of all pith until the fruit is exposed but not
 broken except for a few spots where your knife may have
 slipped. Over this lay about five tablespoons of powdered
 sugar and pour over it a bottle of Claret. Add a half pint
 of Sherry, a quart bottle of vichy or seltzer, a sprig of verbena
 and let stand for ten minutes in freezer. Then serve, using
 small glasses. Good for about a dozen drinks.
72                                     What Shall We Drink?
                       CUP CRIMEAN
     Here's another for that two-table bridge that wiU stimu
late bidding and skill: It's the Cup Crimean, a favorite in
England ever since Lord Wjmdham long ago devised it.
Yes, this mixture will give you a few drinks each—^for you'll
want 'em!
    Use your pimch bowl and before pouring thoroughly chill
one quart of Champagne,two quarts of seltzer or carbonated
water (soda water, if you prefer), a half pint of Maraschino
cordial, a quarter pint of Cognac, five oimces of Curacao and
"gum" to sweeten to taste. Flavor a bit with the filing of a
half orange peel on a square of sugar, stir thoroughly and
serve. If your guests don't appreciate this—but they just
can't help it!
                  CIDER CURACAO CUP
    Oh, yes! Here's another fiine cider Cup, almost forgotten
in the mass of them! On top of a half pint of "gum" pour
two quarts of cider and stir thoroughly. Now add three
ounces of Curacao and four oimces of Brandy, the juice and
rind of one lemon and a thin shave of cucumber rind. Stir in
cracked ice tiU thoroughly cold and serve.
                CLARET BURGUNDY CUP
     The Claret Cups are susceptible of many variations and
here are a few more in addition to those already given:
    Use your large punch bowl and mix, well chilled, four
bottles of Claret, one quart of sparkhng Burgundy, one quart
of seltzer, carbonated water or ApoUinaris, a half pint of
"gum," the slices of two oranges, two lemons and half a
pineapple cut into cubes, seven ounces of Maraschino cordial.
Add strawberries and raspberries, if in season, stir well and
serve. Enough here for thirty or more—and plenty to spare.
                  SPICED CLARET CUP
   Try this Claret Cup at your next little party:
   Chill and mix into bowl containing chipped ice, one bottle
of Claret, a half pint of ice water, two tablespoonsful of
Cups                                                        73

"gum," a couple of pinches each of powdered cloves, cinna
mon and aU-spice, a half ounce of Arrack, the juice of half a
lemon and the rind of it cut into thin yeUow strips—being
careful not to get any of the white pith. Mix thoroughly
and start serving. This wiU give refreshment to four or five.

             CHAMPAGNE CUP ARIADNE
    And now we'U stray from the "cups" with that dehght of
all connoisseurs: The Champagne Cup Ariadne. Your mouth
wUl water whUe mixing a quart of champagne, three oimces of
Amontillado, four ounces of Maraschino cordial, the juice
and part of the scraped rind of an orange (or lemon if you
prefer), a small flavoring of verbena or Arrack, a thin strip of
cucumber and "gum" to sweeten as you wiU. Now add a
quart of vichy or seltzer, stir and serve in hollow stemmed
sparkling Burgundy glasses. You'll have enough for more
than a dozen guests.
                              Chapter IV

              How To Make Fizzes
   GETTING reacquainted with the good old American
Fizz family is hke returning to the days when youth never
dreamed of a thirteen-year void in the art of drinking and
the years ahead seemed to hold no shadows. Well, there are
days ahead, now,for a renewing of cordial relations with the
Fizzes, and we might as well start getting acquainted right
now! Fizzes should be drunk quickly.
                     MIXING A GIN FIZZ
     Into a thin tumbler half fuU of shaved ice pour two
ounces of dry or sweet gin, as you wish. Add a teaspoon of
lemon juice, a tablespoon of gum and stir thoroughly. Now
fill with seltzer or vichy, stir weU with spoon and drink be
fore effervescence is lost.

                   MIXING A BRANDY FIZZ
    Have glass prepared as above in the gin fizz and on ice
put a half teaspoon of white of egg. Over this pour two ounces
of brandy, stir weU while addiug the juice of half a lemon and
a teaspoon full of "gum". Be sure to stir briskly, add a little
more shaved ice, fiU with vichy or seltzer and drink it down.
                 MIXING A GOLDEN FIZZ
   That mixing glass or tumbler is needed again with its
shaved ice to make the Golden Fizz.
   Pom- over the ice two and a half ounces of Claret syrup
and add a half ounce of gin, dry or sweet, but preferably
Holland gin. Now add about two teaspopns of lemon or
lime juice, preferably lime, and the yolk of one egg.
   Shake thoroughly to break up and mix the egg yolk.
   Strain through sieve into thin goblet and fizz with seltzer
or vichy stream.
                                74
Fizzes                                                    ^
                       ST. CROIX FIZZ
   Into shaker containing shaved ice pour two ounces of St.
Croix Rum, add a half teaspoon of egg white which has been
beaten, add the juice of a quarter lemon and a quarter
orange, a dash of Arrack and a teaspoon of "gum." Shake
thoroughly and strain into a fizz glass three quarters full of
shaved ice. Fill with vichy or seltzer and drink it down.
          MIXING A BENEDICTINE FIZZ
    A ten-ounce glass with cracked or cubed ice is needed for
the Benedictine Fizz. Pour into the glass two ounces of
Benedictine and one ounce of lemon syrup. Fizz with stream
of vichy or seltzer.
               MIXING A SLOE GIN FIZZ
   The Sloe Gin Fizz is another of the oldtime favorites and
it's mixed hke this:
   Into a tumbler half full of ice put three dashes of lemon
sjTup and add one and a half ounces of Sloe Gin, the juice
squeezed from a half shce of lemon, and a slice of orange.
Mix thoroughly with spoon till very cold, then strain into
thin goblet and fill with vichy or seltzer.
                MIXING A WHISKY FIZZ
   For the Whisky Fizz use whatever whisky you like
best, be it Bourbon, Rye, Scotch, Irish or ordinary corn
whisky.
                 MIXING A SILVER FIZZ
   Fill a large tumbler three-quarters full of chipped ice for
the Silver Fizz. Add two and a half ounces of Sloe Gin and
the partly beaten white of one egg, a teaspoonful of lemon
juice and a tablespoon of Maraschino cordial. Stir thor
oughly with spoon, or, if you have a strainer for mixing
glasses, which can be obtained at any liquor dealer's store,
shake in the glass and then strain into thin goblet. Fill
 with vichy or seltzer and serve at once.
    Here's another variation of the Silver Fizz:
 76                                      What Shall We Drink?
   Into the mixing tumbler or glass three-quarters full of
shaved ice pour two and a half ounces of sweet or dry gin,add
the beaten and frothy white of one egg, juice of a half a
lemon or lime (preferably lime), "gum" to suit taste, then
shake thoroughly and strain into thin goblet, filling with
stream of vichy or seltzer.
   Prepare by pouring into shaker with cracked ice two
ounces of whisky, a half teaspoon of whipped egg white, the
juice of a half lemon, a teaspoon of "gum",a dash of Bacardi
rum and shake thoroughly, straining into thin tumbler half
full of shaved ice. Fill with vichy or seltzer, stirring a bit,
then drink.
                    THE GLASGOW FIZZ
  From canny Scotland comes this Glasgow Fizz and, hoot
mon! Use only Scotch Whisky!
      Into the iced shaker pour two ounces good old Scotch,
half of a fresh egg previously well beaten, the juice of a half
lemon, a tablespoon of "gum" and shake well. Pour into
thin goblet half fuU of shaved ice, fill with ginger ale, stir,
and drink.

           MIXING AN AMERICAN EAGLE FIZZ
   Into weU iced shaker pour the whipped white of one egg,
two tablespoons of "gum," a quarter teaspoon of lemon
juice, as much orange juice, a dash of Creme de Menthe
(or vanilla, if you prefer), a dash of phosphate, two sqxiirts of
vichy or seltzer, and shake thoroughly. Strain into thin
goblet and fill with cold milk. You'll like this one.
            MIXING A MORNING GLORY FIZZ
   This is excellent after a night of festivity, when the high
spirits of the night before have run low. Plenty of ice in the
shaker, please, because this must be very cold to get best
results. Now pour in the white of an egg partly whipped,
cover with two ounces of whisky (any kind you like), add
about three teaspoons of "gum," Absinthe or Noyeau (three
dashes only), a half teaspoon of lime juice and as much of
Fizzes                                                      77
lemon juice. Shake weU, strain into thin goblet half full of
ice, fill with vichy and seltzer and drink quickly. It will pep
you up for the rest of the day.
              MIXING A MANHATTAN FIZZ
   Again have your shaker ready with ice and pour in two
ounces of brandy (any kind), two ounces of Maraschino
cordial, a dash of Noyeau, a half fresh egg previously beaten,
and shake before straining into thin goblet. FiU with vichy
or seltzer.

         MIXING AN OLD-FASHIONED ELKS FIZZ
   In that goodly brotherhood of the B. P. O. E., in "days
of auld lang syne," the Elks Fizz was supreme. Here's how
the newcomers of the order can mix one:
   Cracked ice in the shaker first, then add an ounce and a
half of rye whisky, an ounce and a half of Port wine, the
partly whipped white of one egg, the juice of half a lemon, a
tablespoon of "gum," and shake thoroughly, straining into
thin goblet or fizz glass, adding vichy or seltzer and topping
with a thin sUce of lemon, orange or pineapple. And there
you are!
                  MIXING A ROYAL FIZZ
   In a large goblet mix by stirring thoroughly two ounces of
gin (or whisky), a previously partly beaten fresh egg, the
juice of a quarter lemon, two teaspoons of powdered sugar
(or three teaspoons of "gum") and when thoroughly mixed,
pour into another goblet one third filled with finely shaved
 ice. Now turn into this a stream of vichy or seltzer and stir
 thoroughly. Sip at brim or use straws.

                MIXING A GAZETTE FIZZ
     Named many years ago after the old London Gazette,
 this drink has been popular in the past in America and is
 likely to revive its popularity. To make one, use large
 goblet to receive two teaspoons of powdered sugar (or a
 tablespoon and a half of "gum"), and a couple of dashes of
78                                        What Shall We Drink?
lemon or lime juice. Drop in the yolk only of one fresh egg
and mix ingredients till they form a creamy batter. Now
pour in two ounces of your favorite brandy, or, if you choose,
use whisky, gin or rum instead of Brandy. Stir well, add
shaved ice to reach about halfway in glass and turn in a
stream of vichy, seltzer or carbonated water, stir a bit, and
drink quickly to enjoy the fizz effect.

                         RADIO FIZZ
    The Radio Fizz, of course, is one of the moderns. Pom
into large goblet half full of shaved ice, two ounces of whisky
(or gin), a teaspoon of "gum," the juice of one lime or half a
lemon, the partly beaten white of one egg. Stir weU, and
then fizz with a stream of vichy, seltzer or carbonated water.
Drink at once.
                          RUM FIZZ
     The Rum Fizz also should be made in a large goblet half
full of finely shaved ice. Pour in two oimces of Rum (any
kind), the juice of a half lemon (or one lime), add the beaten
yolk and white of one egg (or use only the white, if you wish,
or the yolk). A teaspoon of "gum" completes the ingredi
ents for the first stirring. After stirring well, inject the stream
of seltzer, vichy or carbonated water to fill glass, stir just a
bit, and drink.
    Fizzes are especially desirable as morning bracers or when
one feels fagged after a round of golf; or they are adaptable
for serving on hot Summer days on porch or lawn, or at any
time when one feels jaded.

                           GIN FIX
     The "fix" is twin brother to the "fizz," Here's how to
make one: Into a goblet put a tablespqon of "gum," add a
few dashes of lime or lemon juice, an ounce of pineapple
juice and two ounces of gin. Stir well and then fill glass with
finely shaved ice, stirring a few times. Crown with your
favorite fruits or berries and sip through straws.
Fizzes                                                12
                      BRANDY FK
   Same as Gin Fix, substituting Brandy for Gin.

                       WHISKY FIX
   Same as Gin Fix, substituting Whisky (Rye, Bourbon,
Scotch or Irish) for Gin.
                            RUM FIX
   Same as Gin Fix, substituting Rum for Gin.

                       SHERRY FIX
   Same as Gin Fix, using three ounces of Sherry instead
of Gin.
                     APPLEJACK FIX
   Same as Gin Fix, using Applejack instead of Gin.
                                                                  y*\.]

                                                                  'k\



                          Chapter V

            How To Make Rickeys
    In the good old days drinkers were wont to say that
without the family of Rickeys a hon vivant's existence were
dull, indeed. Perhaps they were right and you may agree
with them after sampling a few that will be given here.
                  MIXING A GIN RICKEY
    First let's get acquainted with Mr. Gin Rickey, who was
the most popular member of the family long ago.
    Suppose we drink one together and mix for two, eh?
Writing about 'em certainly makes one thirsty! Here goes:
    Into our individual thin goblets put a few cubes of ice or
cracked ice, as preferred. Pour into each glass about two
ounces of dry or sweet gin. Most men prefer the sweet for a
rickey. Now squeeze into each glass a half lime and let the
lime drop after its juice into each glass. Um-ml
    Now get that vichy or seltzer bottle and send a stream of
effervescent fluid into the glass until it nearly touches the
rim. Ah, that's it! Now stir it with a spoon and let's toast
each other! If you hke it stronger, add more Gin.
                MIXING A DIXIE RICKEY
    One of my pleasantest memories of a warm day years ago
in Virginia was the serving by my host of what he called a
Dixie Rickey—I honestly believe the good fellow was
spoofing me as to the name—but the drink—ah!
   I think I'll mix one now, calling on a pretty sound recol
lection of what undoubtedly was my host's own concoction:
    A tall shell glass quarter full of finely shaved ice now re
ceives a dash of Arrack, a dash of lemon juice, the juice-of a
half lime, an ounce of Jamaica rum, a dash of Creme de
Menthe, an ounce of Bourbon Whisky, aU stirred as they
are added. A sprig of verbena now goes in and the glass
filled with vichy or seltzer stream after a bit more ice has
                             80
Rickeys                                                     81
been added. Drink or sip it as you will, but on a hot day,
when enjoying it, give a silent toast to the long dead good
fellow who devised this refreshing and cooling beverage.
               MIXING A COCOA RICKEY
   Here's one for the ladies especially, bless their hearts!
   To mix a Cocoa Fizz pour over a few cubes of ice one and
a half ounces of Creme de Cocoa, using a ten-ounce glass.
Add a half ounce of sweet mUk and a tablespoonful of
"gum." Now, a small scoop of ice cream and charge it with
a stream of vichy or seltzer. This isn't particularly recom
mended as a man's drink.
              MIXING A BRANDY RICKEY
    That tall, thin goblet comes into service again with its
cracked or diced ice for the Brandy Rickey. Pour over the
ice two ounces of brandy (any kind) and add a teaspoon of
lime or lemon juice. Fill with stream of seltzer or vichy,
and drink.
                MIXING A SOUR RICKEY
    Into a tall, thin goblet put the juice of a half lemon, add
finely shaved ice to one third the height of glass. Now an
ounce of Jamaica rum, an ounce of Arrack, two half slices of
lemon and a stream of vichy or seltzer to fill glass. Don't use
sugar.
                 MIXING A RUM RICKEY
   Into a thin, tall goblet containing ice cubes or cracked ice
pour two ounces of rum (any kind) and add a teaspoon of
lime or lemon juice (preferably lime). FiU with stream of
seltzer or vichy, stir slightly, crown with half shce of lime
and enjoy your drink.
               MIXING A WHISKY RICKEY
    For the Whisky Rickey you may use either Rye, Scotch,
Irish or Bourbon, pouring two ounces on the cracked ice or
cubes in your thin goblet and filling with stream of vichy or
seltzer. It's a simple drink to make and especially suitable
with the other rickeys for the "dog days" or after a hot round
of golf.
82                                       What Shall We Drink?
             MIXING A GRAPE FRUIT RICKEY
   Follow same directions as for Orange Rickey, except that
you use dash of lemon sjnrup instead of orange bitters and
grape fruit juice instead of orange juice.
              MIXING AN ORANGE RICKEY
     Into a large goblet or high shell, at your pleasure, pour
the juice of one orange. Fill glass one third full of finely
shaved ice. Now two dashes of orange bitters, an ounce and
a half of sweet gin, an ounce of kuemmel, a tablespoon of
"gum." Stir in ice to mix, then fiU glass with vichy or seltzer
stream. Top with a half slice of fresh lime.
                MIXING A PEACH RICKEY
   Use a high shell, fill quarter full with cracked ice, cover ice
with a tablespoonful of Peach Cordial, add two ounces of
Peach Brandy and one dash of Noyeau to give it a pleasant
nutty flavor of bitter almond. A half slice of lemon or a
whole thin slice of lime now goes in and the glass is fiUed to
brim with seltzer or vichy or carbonated water, whichever
you may have. Some use White Rock water. Regardless of
what you use, even if it's sweet soda water, you'll like this
rickey immensely.
             MIXING A GRENADINE RICKEY
    Into your glass as above pour one ounce of Grenadine
and a teaspoonful of lemon or lime juice. Add an ounce and
a half of gin, dry or sweet, and fill glass with stream of
seltzer or vichy, stirring well before drinking.
              MIXING A SLOE GIN RICKEY
   Here is one of the most delightful of the Rickey family—
the Sloe Gin Rickey. Let's try to make one.
   Use a highball glass for this drink and into it put some
cracked ice on which pour one teaspoon lemon juice or two
teaspoons of lime juice. Then add two ounces of sloe gin
and fill glass to brim with stream of seltzer or vichy.
   It's easy, eh? And what a cold drink for a perspiring day!
                         Chapter VI
            How To Make Juleps
WHY it is so believed is problematic, but Kentucky, in
     stead of Virginia, is popularly credited with the birth
of the delectable Julep brothers and sisters.
   The julep is the ideal drink for a hot day on porch, lawn
or at the racetrack, outdoor games or for just informal
drinking when coolness and refreshnment are desirable.
   In honor of the Old Dominion, where the julep actually
was born, I am starting with the original Mint Julep of
Virginia.
                       MINT JULEP
   Into a large goblet place a few sprigs of fresh table mint,
add a tablespoon of white granulated or powdered sugar
(preferably the latter), and press them, with a dash of water,
until the sugar is dissolved, but without tearing the leaves,
merely bruising them. Remove the sprigs of mint and add
not more than three ounces of brandy (any kind you like).
Stir well. Then fill glass with finely shaved ice, almost
snow>' in appearance. Into this stick the sprigs of mint,
stems down, so that the fohage rests on top of the ice, fra
grant and enjoyable. Now fiU the interstices of ice with
cold vichy, seltzer or carbonated water. Place a few bits of
quartered orange slices, strawberries or other fruits in season
on top, among the leaves, and stir slightly. Inhale the re
freshing mint as you sip from the rim, or, if you prefer, im
bibe through straws or glass sippers.
   And now that we have duly honored Virginia, let us pass
to the next claimant for the honor of bestowing the julep
upon a thirsty and appreciative world.
        MIXING THE KENTUCKY MINT JULEP
  Into a tall seven-ounce glass pour one ounce of Creme de
Menthe, and two ounces of whisky or brandy. Now fill the
                              83
84                                       What Shall We Drink?
glass with finely shaved ice and stir until outside of glass is
frosted. Into this stick a sprig of mint stem downward,
leaving leaves thickly covering the top. Take a good long
whiff of the mint leaves which should be slightly bruised by
the fingers, by the way, and then—drink your Kentucky
Mint Julep.
            MIXING A BRANDY MINT JULEP
    For a Brandy Mint Julep, dissolve a cube of sugar with
as httle water as possible in a tall seven-ounce glass and add
two ounces of brandy (apricot, peach or whatever you like),
stirring the sugar thoroughly into the brandy. Now a couple
of fresh table mint sprigs, bruised first, are placed in the glass,
stems down. Fill glass with finely shaved ice. Garnish top
with a half slice of orange or a few dice of pineapple or both,
and add a dash of Rum. Sip through straws or glass sippers.

       MIXING AN OLD FASHIONED MINT JULEP
     Into a half tumbler of shaved ice pour two ounces of
brandy (any kind) and not more than two teaspoons of
orange juice strained. Add "gum" not in excess of two tea
spoons and then shake or stir thoroughly. Strain into seven-
ounce tall glass and fill with finely shaved ice into which
thrust a few sprigs of table mint, stems down. Bruise leaves
shghtly to lend aroma. Sip through straws or glass sippers.

             MIXING A FRUIT MINT JULEP
    Soak a dozen sprigs of table mint in a pint of boiling
water for at least ten minutes to extract full flavor, then
strain and mix thoroughly with a quart of "gum" thinned
shghtly with a cup of hot water. Now into your punch bowl
before adding ice, put the juice of a half dozen lemons and
eight oranges, adding a pint and a haff of Claret wine. Stir
to mix and while stirring pour the mint-flavored "gum."
Now add cracked ice for chilling and whatever additional
Juleps                                                       85
seltzer or vichy water you determine is needed to suit your
own taste as to strength.
    On top float strawberries, either whole or cut into halves,
and plenty of bruised and cut pieces of fresh table mint
leaves. In serving be sure that each guest has a couple of
berries and at least a part of mint sprig in his or her glass.
This portion should give about twenty drinks, or less or more,
depending on how much seltzer you use to dilute the mixture.

               MIXING A GIN MINT JULEP
   In mixing a Gin Mint Julep use the usual 7-ounce tall
julep glass to dissolve a lump of sugar with just enough water
to do so, then pour on the sugar two ounces of sweet or dry
gin, stirring thoroughly. Now flll glass with finely shaved ice
and into the ice thrust one or two fresh mint sprigs, stems
down, bruising the leaves gently to lend more fragrance and
a delicate mint flavor. A half shce of lemon or a whole thin
shce of fresh lime cut into halves can be placed on top of this
deUcious drink. It's fit for epicures, who prefer to sip direct
from glass rather than to use straws or glass sippers.

            MIXING A WHISKY MINT JULEP
   Pour into your seven-ounce tall julep glass two ounces of
whisky (Rye, Scotch or Bourbon, as you will) and two tea
spoons of "gum." Stir and add one leaf of bruised mint
leaf. FiU glass with finely shaved ice and add one dash of
phosphate. Then thrust into the ice the stem of a sprig of
fresh table mint the leaves of which have been gently bruised
to add aroma and flavor. You may put on top of the ice
sliced berry or diced pineapple decorations, or use two
 quarter sUces of orange.
    Either drink direct from glass or use straw or glass sippers.
    As a rule, it is better to mix juleps individually, in order
 to get the most expert results. A julep should really be a
 work of art and repays whatever small pains one goes to in
 mixing one.
86                                      What Shall We Drink?
               MIXING A PINEAPPLE JULEP
    Your punch bowl will come in handy for mixing this
delicious Pineapple Julep, designed for folks who may not
care for mint flavoring. Have a generous amount of cracked
or cubed ice in the bowl. Then pour in two bottles of spark
ling Burgundy or Moselle or Rhine wine, add a half pint of
gin (the sweet preferably) and a half pint of fruit syrup,
either raspberry, strawberry or peach, or a combination of
fruits in syrup form. To this add the juice of one lemon and
four oranges. Stir thoroughly and float on top either diced
or thinly sliced strips of two whole fresh pineapples or two
cans of preserved pineapple steaks cut into spearhead six
teenths. Some persons use shredded pineapple, but it isn't
as tempting in appearance.
     Serve in 7-ounce julep glasses. This portion makes about
a dozen drinks. More or less may be made by merely ob
serving the ratio of ingredients.
              MIXING A PINK LADY JULEP
     Here's one the ladies like in the Julep clan—the Pink
Lady Julep. Into your 7-ounce glass put two teaspoons of
"gum" and add one and a half ounces of gin, one ounce of
Grenadine and half ounce of Benedictine. Stir thoroughly
and fill the glass with finely shaved ice. Now add one dash
of Creme de Menthe and thrust into the ice one sprig of
fresh mint, stem down, bruising the mint leaves gently. Cut
a strawberry into four sections and dot on top of the ice.
Your julep is ready to drink now, either with or without
straw or glass sipper, depending on your own wish.
                  MIXING A RUM JULEP
     In a tall, thin tumbler place a few sprigs of fresh table
mint, and cover with a tablespoon of powdered sugar.
With a spoon crush the sugar into the mint leaves to bring
out the mint flavor. Now pour in three ounces of rum and
two tablespoonsful of ordinary water or effervescent, as you
wish. Stir thoroughly. Now lift out the mint sprigs and
Juleps                                                     87
fill the glass with finely shaved ice. Insert the sprigs of
mint, stem downward, and tastefully arrange between the
leaves bits of shced cherries, strawberries or pineapple, or
all of them, as you wish. Drink luxuriously with straw or
glass sipper.
             MIXING A CHAMPAGNE JULEP
   With the Champagne Julep we'll pass on to other fields
equally dehghtful in the drinking line. But let's mix it first
and try it.
   In a small stemmed glass like a champagne glass but not
hollow-stemmed, bruise with a lump of white sugar the juice
of a sprig of mint. Now fill the glass with ice cold champagne,
stirring very slowly as you pour. Crown the hquor with bits
of sUced orange, berries and a couple of sweet grapes, if you
like grapes. If not, don't use them. You'll smack your lips
after this one I
                          Chapter VII

             Hozv to Make Noggs
    No hostess should be without some knowledge of the
gentle art of mixing the various dehcious noggs which make
hospitahty so meUow and friendly. Here are some favorites
of yesteryears.
                    BRANDY EGG NOGG
   Into shaker without ice break one well beaten egg. Add
an ounce of Brandy, a tablespoon of "gum" and a dash of
Angostura Bitters. Shake well together and pom- into an
earthenware mug of the lo to 12 ounce type. Fill almost to
brim with hot milk and dust nutmeg on surface. Some folks
add a top coating of cold whipped cream. Others like a
stiflfer amount of Brandy.

                   ST. CROIX EGG NOGG
   Into a tumbler half full of cracked ice put one previously
beaten egg, one tablespoon of "gum," two ounces of St.
Croix Rum, one ounce of Brandy, and stir briskly. Fill
glass with mUk, stiU stirring, put grated nutmeg on top and
imbibe from glass or with straws. Glass sippers may clog
because of the egg.

                  MADEIRA-BRANDY NOGG
   For a smaU party, here's a quantity recipe which wiU help
a hostess: Beat yolks of six eggs and five tablespoons of
powdered sugar into a creamy mixture. Add a quarter level
teaspoon of grated nutmeg and stir as you pour into your
mixing bowl one half pint of Brandy and three ounces of
Madeira Wine. Now add the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs,
stirring into mixture vigorously and adding, while stirring,
one quart of sweet milk. Served with a dash of cinnamon
powder on top of each drink, it is delicious.
                              88
Noggs                                                       89
                  WHISKY EGG NOGG
    And here's another nice individual egg nogg. Whip one
egg into a froth with a tablespoon of sugar, either granulated
or powdered, although the powdered is most easUy whipped.
Pour out, into a tumbler, stirring all the while, two ounces of
whisky and milk to fill the glass. Now pour the entire
mixture into a shaker with cracked ice and shake till thor
oughly chilled, straining into clean tumbler and sifting either
nutmeg or cinnamon on top of drink. Sip from brim or use
straws.
                 ARRACK BRANDY NOGG
   Now for another nice nogg. To one weU beaten egg add
two ounces of Brandy, a dash of Arrack and tablespoon of
"gum." Stir well and strain into a tumbler one third fuU of
finely shaved ice. Add and stir while adding, milk to fill
glass almost to rim. Dust with nutmeg and sip or drink.
    This drink also can be made with hot milk instead of
being served cold. Either way is most enjoyable.
                   COGNAC EGG NOGG
   Now for another fine mixture. Whip an egg into a froth
and mix it in a tumbler with two ounces of Cognac Brandy
and a tablespoon of "gum." When thoroughly mixed, add
finely shaved ice and fill glass while stirring with sweet milk.
Top with a pinch of cinnamon or grated nutmeg,as you prefer.
                   SCOTCH EGG NOGG
    For a gentler feminine nogg, try this one: Beat a yolk of
 one egg, stir in a tablespoonful and a half of Scotch whisky,
 using a small tumbler, add three tablespoons of fine ice and
 one tablespoon of "gum" and fill glass with milk, stirring to
 mix egg well into mixture. A dash of Angostura Bitters lends
 snap. Use or omit any nutmeg or cinnamon. It's nice either
 way. And, incidentally, by using a heat resisting mug or
 glass, you might try this one with hot or warm milk, too.
    And now, let's go to some of the noggs which have come
 down the corridors of time with names added to them.
90                                      What Shall We Drink?
            BRANDY AND SHERRY EGG NOGG
    For an afternoon tea, there's nothing hke this nogg ad
junct: You may use a tea cup to receive a well beaten egg.
Stir with it one ounce of whisky or brandy and two ounces
of Sherry Wine. Sweeten with one and a half teaspoons of
"gum," stir well and pour on while stirring either warm or
hot mUk. Cold milk is used sometimes. Top with powdered
cinnamon or grated nutmeg.

                   MADEIRA EGG NOGG
     Another variant is made by beating the yolk of one egg
with a teaspoon of powdered sugar, adding a pinch of nut
meg and stirring well with two and a half ounces of Madeira
Wine. Strain into small highball glass containing one third
finely shaved ice and fill to top with sweet milk. Crown with
dusted cinnamon. Drink or sip, as you will, or use straws.

               SHERRY CREAM EGG NOGG
     And here's one you'll smack your lips over! Pour into a
small tumbler one and a half tablespoons of Sherry Wine
and add as much pure cream with one teaspoon of "gum."
Mix and put in the previously well beaten and frothy white
of one egg, add two tablespoons of snowy ice, and fill balance
of glass with rich milk. Top with a pinch of nutmeg gratings.
                   SHERRY EGG NOGG
     Use iced shaker, break into it one fresh egg, add a table
spoon and a half of "gum," three ounces of Sherry Wine, one
ounce of brandy and shake well to mix egg into ingredients.
Strain into shaved ice in tumbler, fill with milk, stirring the
while, and put a dash of grated nutmeg on top. Drink or sip
through straws.
      CHRISTMAS AND NEW YEAR'S BOWL NOGG
   You naturally will want a large amoimt of nogg for your
Yuletide celebrations every year. So, when the gladsome
holiday time comes 'round, get out your big wassail bowl for
Noggs                                                     91
this two-gallon mixture, popular in the Scandinavias and
Germany:
    Separate from two dozen eggs the yolks only and beat
thoroughly in a separate container until they "run" off the
spoon. Now stir into the yolks about two and a quarter
pounds of powdered sugar. Into your punch bowl pour a
pint of brandy before putting the yolk mixture in bowl and
thus prevent the yolks from adhering to the sides of the bowl
and making an untasty appearance. Stir brandy and yolk
mixture and then while stirring, add three more pints of
brandy, one pint of rum, either Bacardi or St. Croix, and six
quart bottles of fresh milk containing its cream. Don't
forget that you MUST KEEP ON STIRRING aU the
while until the milk has been thoroughly mixed and all
danger of curdling is over.
    When you feel safe about the milk, cease stirring and over
the top of the mixture sprinkle powdered nutmeg and cinna
mon, mixed. Now,for decorative purposes,(not essential to
the drink), you might beat up the whites of the eggs and, by
using a teaspoon, dot the top of the liquid with "floats" of
the egg whites; or you might add a teaspoonful of egg white
to each cup or glass in which it is served. Sweet cookies
might be served for the guests to nibble while partaking of
this delicious holiday bowl.

        HOW TO MAKE A BALTIMORE EGG NOGG
   Because I'm a Baltimorean born, I rather like this the
best of all the egg noggs, but that's probably ascribable to a
natural prejudice in favor of one's birthplace. At any rate,
 you may like it, too, and here's how to make it:
   Beat the yellow of one egg to a cream with a tablespoon
of powdered sugar and a pinch of grated nutmeg. When
they are thoroughly mixed, pour in one and a quarter ounces
of cognac brandy, one of St. Croix Rum (other rums may be
used, of course, but St. Croix is preferable), two ounces of
Madeira Wine, stirring all the while. Now add a few lumps
92                                       What Shall We Drink?

or squares of ice or shaved ice, at will, and fill, while stirring
with rich milk. Top with a pinch of grated nutmeg and
drink or sip through straws. Nice, isn't it?

         HOW TO MIX AN IMPERIAL EGG NOGG
     Use iced shaker and pour into it one ounce of Jamaica
rum, two ounces of cognac brandy and a tablespoon of
"gum." Now break into it one fresh egg and shake till
thoroughly mixed. Strain into glass containing one third
finely shaved ice and fill with unskimmed milk, stirring
vigorously. Top with grated nutmeg or cinnamon. Drink or
sip through straws.

            HOW TO MIX A CIDER EGG NOGG
     Into an iced shaker pour a pony glass of cider and a table
spoon of "gum." Break in one egg, shake thoroughly and
strain into tumbler with shaved ice. Fill glass with cider and
drink or sip with straws.

 HOW TO MIX A GENERAL HARRISON EGG NOGG
     You may virtually use the above recipe, except that you
merely add grated nutmeg on top.
                        Chapter VUI

             How to Make Flips
    Although this is one of the shortest chapters in this
volume, it is certainly one of the strongest. Possibly because
flips are a short type of drink, long-winded narrations are
needless. One drinks the concoction virtually as the name
imphes—it's a slip of the flip to the hp and down after a sip!
Let's try them.
                       BRANDY FLIP
   Use your shaker for this one, poirring into shaved ice two
ounces of brandy (any kind), a teaspoon of "gum" and a
thoroughly beaten fresh egg. Shake weU and strain into
small glass, topping with a pinch of cinnamon or nutmeg, or
both, as you prefer.
                        RUM FLIP
   Same as Brandy Fhp,only substituting your favorite rum.

                       WHISKY FLIP
   Same as Brandy Fhp, using your favorite whisky.
                        WINE FLIP
   Same as Brandy Fhp, using Port, Sherry or other sweet
and highly fortified wines, instead of brandy, and three
ounces instead of two ounces.

                   HOT BRANDY FLIP
    Beat the yolk of one fresh egg until it runs hke water,
add a tablespoon of "gum," two ounces of (any) brandy, mix
and pour into heavy goblet of medium size. FiU half to two-
thirds fuU of hot water, stir weU and sprinkle top with pinch
of cinnamon, grated nutmeg, or both, as you like it.

                       HOT GIN FLIP
   Same as Hot Brandy Fhp, using gin instead of Brandy.
                             93
94                                   What Shall We Drink?

                         GIN FLIP
    Same as Brandy Flip, using gin (any kind) instead of
brandy. In a gin flip, however, you should put a well beaten
fresh egg and serve in a conical small glass.

                      HOT RUM FLIP
     Same as Hot Brandy FHp, using (any) rum you like, for
brandy.
                    HOT SHERRY FLIP
     Same as Hot Brandy Fhp,substituting Sherry for brandy,
but three ounces instead of two.

                     HOT PORT FLIP
     Same as Hot Sherry FHp, using Port Wine instead.

                   HOT WHISKY FLIP
     Same as Hot Brandy Flip, using (any) whisky instead of
brandy.
     You may easily devise other FHps and name them at
your own pleasure. Really, aU that you need is a guide of
this kind to invent many drinks which wfll please and win
the admiration of your guests.




                                                              ■Ufi
                         Chapter IX

       How to Make Pousse Cafes
   Pousse Cafes are highly decorative drinks made for ser
vice with the demi-tasse at the conclusion of a verj' formal
dinner, although there is no social law to prevent the service
of Pousse Cafes at any dinner if one desires.
    The main feature to a Pousse Cafe is the beautiful color
ing of the various ingredients which are very carefully poured
into the glasses required, usually put in with a tablespoon
which is held tightly against the incUned inside side of the
glass so that each ingredient forms a separate layer. This
method is absolutely necessary in preparing all of the Pousse
Cafes and their near kin, the Brandy Champarelle and the
Brandy Scaffa. Therefore, when I say to pour this or that
into a glass, you wiU know that I mean the careful use of the
spoon method instead of the usual pouring. And now, on
to the fascinating preparation of the several Pousse Cafes.
               POUSSE CAFE(POPULAR)
   Into a slender Sherry glass pour in turn the following six
ingredients, which means that you had better first ascertain
the quantity of one-sixth of the glass, for each ingredient
will take up a sixth of the space in it: Raspberry syrup.
Maraschino Cordial, Green Vanilla, Red Curacao, Yellow
Chartreuse and Cognac Brandy. Sip carefully so as to en
joy each in turn.
                 FRENCH POUSSE CAFE
    Only three ingredients are used in a Sherry wine type of
glass, one third each of Benedictine, Curacao and Kirsch-
wasser, (or Kirschenwasser, the real name), which is com
pounded of various ingredients including Noyeau, essence of
rose, alcohol, orris root and sugar syrup. On top you might
drop carefully two or three drops of Orange Bitters or Angos
tura, if you prefer the bitterer flavor.
                               95
96                                     What Shall We Drink?
                 SARATOGA POUSSE CAFE
    Six ingredients go into a small slender cylinder glass as
follows: A sixth glass each of Curacao, Benedictine, Rasp
berry Syrup, Cognac Brandy, Green Creme de Menthe and
Vanilla Cordial. Sip each ingredient carefully.
                POUSSE L'AMOUR (LOVE)
   Another delightful French pousse, made m slender
Sherry wine glass, with four iagredients. First Maraschino
Cordial, then, very carefully, slip an unbroken yolk of one
egg on top of the Maraschino,so that it forms an orange ring,
then add Green Vanilla or Chartreuse, as you prefer, and
top with Cognac Brandy.
                 AMERICAN POUSSE CAFE
     Use a very slender, almost straight, finger-wide glass for
this drink. Pour in quarter glass each of Maraschino
Cordial, Curacao, Green Chartreuse and Cognac Brandy.
                       POUSSE PARIS
     Into a slender Sherry glass pour one fifth Creme de
Menthe (green); one fifth Curacao, one fifth Kirschwasser,
one fifth Chartreuse, one fifth Cognac Brandy.
                  POUSSE MARSEILLAIS
   Into a slender Sherry Wine glass pour fifth parts each of
Green Vanilla, Red Curacao, Yellow Chartreuse, White
Creme de Menthe and Benedictine.
              NEW ORLEANS POUSSE CAFE
   Pour into a slender Sherry wine glass one third each of
Cognac Brandy, Maraschino Cordial and Curacao.
                 POUSSE L'AMBASSADOR
   Pour into slender Sherry Wine glass fifth parts each of
rich, heavy cream, Creme de Menthe (Green), YeUow Char
treuse, Maraschino Cordial, Peach Brandy.
                   POUSSE PARISIENNE
   Fifth parts each of Raspberry Syrup, Chartreuse, Mara
schino Cordial, Curacao and Cherry^Brandy. Use Sherry glass.
Pousse Cafes                                             97
             "JERSEY LILY" POUSSE CAFE
   This drink, named after Lillian Russell, the "Jersey
Lily," was much reUshed by that queen of the stage in her
heydey. To her memory let us devote a thought as we mix
one in a finger-wide slender glass or a pony glass. Only two
ingredients, so use half a glass of Chartreuse and on top
carefully pour Cognac Brandy. One of the easiest to make
but most enjoyable of the Pousse Cafes.
               MANHATTAN POUSSE CAFE
   Use a slender Sherry glass for four equal parts of Mara
schino, Absinthe, Benedictine and Orange Curacao.
   From the foregoing, you probably can learn to make up
your own types of Pousse Cafes, naming them as you wish.
And now just to give you a couple of Brandy Champarelles
and Scaffas, usually made in Sherry wine glasses exactly as
Pousse Cafes are made.
           COGNAC BRANDY CHAMPARELLE
   One third each of Cognac Brandy, Maraschino Cordial
and Orange Bitters.
             PEACH BRANDY CHAMPARELLE
    One fifth each of Red Curacao, Yellow Chartreuse, rich
cream. Green Creme de Menthe and Peach Brandy.
           CHERRY BRANDY CHAMPARELLE
    One quarter each of Yellow Chartreuse, Maraschino
 Cordial, Kirschwasser and Cherry Brandy.
                PEACH BRANDY SCAFFA
    Fifth equal parts of Strawberry Syrup, Green Chartreuse,
 White Creme de Menthe, Maraschino Cordial and Peach
 Brandy.       COGNAC BRANDY SCAFFA
    Quarter equal parts of Raspberry Syrup, Yellow Char-
 treause. Green Chartreuse and Cognac Brandy.
    From these formulas you may devise your own Cham
 parelles and Scaffas, which, to my mind, might all be in
 cluded under the general name of Pousse Cafes.
                          Chapter X

        Miscellaneous Mixed Drinks
   In addition to the groupings of drink families there are
many mixed drinks which fall into a miscellaneous category,
but aU of which are highly distinctive in themselves.
   For instance, there's only one John CoUins drink—and
here it is:
               HOW TO MIX A JOHN COLLINS
   Into a shaker (that's the more convenient way at home;
at bars the professional will use a mixing glass, but amateurs
are likely to spiU in shaking one) pour upon cracked ice two
ounces of sweet or dry gin, add a tablespoonful of lemon
juice and "gum" (about two teaspoons). Then shake well
and strain into a tumbler half fiUed with shaved ice. Pour
into this carbonated water or vichy till glass is full, top with
thin slice of lemon and drink.

               HOW TO MIX A WHISKY SOUR
   In a tumbler place a teaspoonful of strained lemon juice
and add either a teaspoonful of "gum" or rock candy sjrrup.
Then pour in two ounces of whisky (Rye or Scotch or Bour
bon) and add a couple of tablespoonfuls of shaved ice. Stir
thoroughly and strain into cocktail glass, topping with thin
slice of orange cut into quarters and a couple of pineapple
dice.
   Another variation is to mix the ingredients in a heavy-
bottomed mixing glass, grinding two slices of lemon and a
tablespoonful of sugar until the sugar is thoroughly absorbed
and dissolved, then adding two ounces of whisky of any
kind, with shaved ice to chill the mixture as it is stirred be
fore pouring into cocktail glass. This also can be topped with
orange slice quarters and pineapple, or with two halves of a
lemon slice.
                              98
Mixed Drinks                                               W
                MIXING A SILVER SOUR
    The Silver Sour is a delightful drink and thirst-quencher.
It is mixed thus: Into a tumbler put the white of one egg and
beat it, but not into a froth. Add a teaspoon of lemon juice
and two ounces of gin, either dry, sloe or sweet, sweeten
with "gum," or a teaspoonful or more, as you please, of
powdered sugar. Shake or stir well until thoroughly chiUed,
then pour into cocktail glass for use.
               MIXING AN APPLE TODDY
   Into a mug put half a baked apple and sprinkle it with a
balf tablespoonful of powdered sugar. Over this pour about
two ounces of Applejack and fill mug with hot water. Stir
thoroughly with spoon, then top with grated nutmeg and sip.
               MIXING A BRANDY SMASH
   The Brandy Smash was ever popular before the dry era
and here's how to make one:
    Use a tumbler slightly more than half full of shaved ice.
Pour in two ounces of brandy, two dashes of vichy or seltzer,
and "gum" not exceeding a tablespoon and a half. Stir well,
add more shaved ice to fill glass. Stir again, then top off
with a few bruised leaves of mint and orange or lemon dice.
                 MIXING A TOM COLLINS
    You've met the John CoUins and probably like him. Now
 meet John's twin brother, Tom Collins, and see if you like
 him as well. Both John and Tom long since passed on to
their reward, but the dubious immortality of a drink's name
 alcoholically preserves their memories.
    Here's one variation of the Tom ColHns: Use a large
 goblet to mix two ounces of gin (Old Tom, if still available,
 is the original gin ingredient), a tablespoon of "gum," a
 quarter teaspoon of lime juice or juice of a quarter lemon.
 Stir, and put some cracked ice in glass. Fill it to within one
 inch of rim with soda water, stir and drink quickly.
    Here's another variation of the Tom CoUins: Substitute
100                                   What Shall We Drink?
Brandy for the Gin and add a dash or two of Maraschino.
And still another variation is the use of whisky in place of
gin, with a dash of orange bitters. In various sections of the
country I have seen this drink and many others mixed in a
variety of forms which the originator never would recognize.
And, as I have remarked before, many mushroom titles of
drinks grew up during Prohibition which are discarded in
this volume as being worthless of preserving—drinks with
the names of motion picture stars, many of whom already
have lapsed into oblivion; names of gangsters and of speak
easies, disreputable roadhouses and "shady" taverns and
hotels, etc.
                    CLARET COBBLER
   Into a large tumbler pour a tablespoon of "gum" and a
quarter teaspoon of lemon juice, to which add a small
amount of Claret wine to mix thoroughly. Now half fill
glass with finely shaved ice, add two quarter slices of orange
and two quarter slices of pineapple, fill glass with Claret,
stir and drink through straws.
                    SHERRY SANGAREE
    Shake or stir well three to four ounces of Sherry Wine
with a teaspoon and a half of "grun" in cracked ice, strain
into small Sherry glass and crown with a pinch of cinnamon
or grated nutmeg.
                    APPLEJACK SOUR
   In a large goblet two thirds fuU of shaved ice pour a
tablespoon of strained lemon jmce, a teaspoon each of pine
apple syrup and "gum" and two ounces of Applejack (or
Apple Brandy, if you prefer, in which case you'd simply be
drinking an Apple Brandy Sour). Stir weU and strain into
small glass, toppiog writh your favorite fruits., Some folks
add a dash or two of sparkling water.
                  SAUTERNE COBBLER
   Into a goblet half full of finely shaved ice pour a table
spoon of "gum" and add two quarter slices of lemon and of
Mixed Drinks                                              101
orange. Fill glass with Sauterne and stir. Now decorate
top with a few favorite berries and drink through straws.
             STILL BURGUNDY COBBLER
   Same as Sauterne Cobbler, using still Burgundy Wine,
not the Sparkling.
                    HOCK COBBLER
   Same as Sauterne Cobbler, substituting Hock Wine, a
form of Rhine Wine made from harsh German wine with an
infusion of sage.
                     PORT COBBLER
   Same as Sauterne Cobbler, using Port Wine.

                   MADEIRA COBBLER
   Same as Sauterne Cobbler, using Madeira Wine.

                    ENGLISH BISHOP
   This drink from London is greatly hked in America for
use at parties. It is mixed in a porcelain or heat-resisting
punch bowl with the following ingredients: To every quart of
hot wine (Port preferred) add one orange stabbed with
cloves and roasted till brown in an oven, slicing the orange
into as many sections as desired. Sweeten to taste with
"gum." This may be served immediately, or, if you wish a
more fragrant and spicy mixture, you might simmer the
mixture for a while in a vessel over the fire before placing in
punch bowl. Some folks add a few slices of lemon and pine
apple to mix the fruit flavors in the drink. It's a matter of
personal option.
                      BLUE BLAZER
    This is a spectular drink, usually only attempted by pro
fessionals, for it involves setting fire to the Brandy or
Whisky or Gin used in making it. Use two mugs. Pour
into one, two ounces of Scotch Whisky (preferably) and two
ounces of hot water. Sweeten with a teaspoon of gum.
 Apply match to top to set alcohol afire and now quickly pour
into the other mug and back and forth from mug to mug
102                                      What Shall We Drink?
until flame dies. Strain into small glass and drink. Some
folks merely heat the mixture without using the flame.
          HOW TO MIX A PORT WINE NEGUS
   Use a smaU goblet for this and mix a tablespoon of
"gum" with one small wineglass of Port Wine and the balance
of the glass fiUed with hot water. Top with grated nutmeg
and drink. jyj-jxiNG A BISHOP AMERICAN
   Into a large goblet three-quarters full of fine ice pour the
juice of a half orange, strained, a half teaspoon of Jamaica
Rum, a dash of seltzer or vichy, a tablespoon and a half of
"gum" and a dash of lemon juice. Fill glass with Burgundy
Wine,stir well, top with fruits in season and use straw or glflsa
sipper.       mixing A GOLDEN SLIPPER
   Golden Shppers somehow always put me in mind of the
opera and dazzling beauties stepping into hmousines. At any
rate, the drink is worthy such a vision and here's how to mix
one: Into a wine glass with tall slender stem, pour not quite
a half portion of yeUow Chartreuse Wine and not quite half
portion of Eau de Vie de Danzig, known to many as "Golden
Water." Now carefully spoon into this a yolk of one egg,
being careful not to break the yolk. Your charming com
panion at the opera wiU rehsh this while you, possibly, are
having a Manhattan as your drink.
                MIXING A SHANDY GAFF
    This more proletarian or bourgeois drink is mixed in a
large goblet. Just half fill the glass with cold Ale or Porter
and mix in the other half of ginger ale.
              MIXING A SHERRY COBBLER
   Into a tumbler half full of shaved ice pour five ounces of
Sherry wine as the starter of your Sherry Cobbler. Now add
a teaspoon and a half of orange juice strained and sweeten
with "gum" to suit taste. Shake or stir well and strain into
a thin goblet containing some shaved ice. Sip through
straws or glass sippers.
Mixed Drinks                                             103
               MIXING A BRANDY SOUR
   Place in a tumbler a teaspoonful of strained lemon juice
and add two teaspoons of "gum." Pour in two ounces of
Brandy of any kind you particularly like and add a few
tablespoons of shaved ice. Stir or shake thoroughly and
strain into cocktail glass, topping with thin slice of orange
cut into halves, or use pineapple cubes or other fruits as
you desire.
               MINUTE MAN HIGHBALL
   Get out your highball glass, drop in a few chunks of
cracked ice, pom in two ounces of Applejack, an ounce of
Port Wine, a tablespoon of orange juice, and fill glass with
seltzer, vichy or carbonated water, stirring shghtly before
drinking.
                  MIXING A GIN SOUR
   Two ounces of Gin, either dry, sweet or sloe, form the
hase of the Gin Sour. Pour into tumbler with a teaspoon of
strained lemon juice and sweeten shghtly with one teaspoon
of "gum" or rock candy syrup. Add a few tablespoonsful of
cracked ice, stir thoroughly and strain into cocktail glass,
topping with diced pineapple or quartered slice of orange
or both.
               HOW TO MIX A HIGHBALL
    Unless specially named, the highball, which probably is
scheduled to resume its tremendous popularity of the olden
days, is quickly and easily made. Let's call 'em Rum,Gin,
Sloe Gin or Bourbon Highballs, Rye High, Scotch Highball,
or Irish High—the dosage of aU is just the same. So, to
make a Rye Highball, for instance, you simply put into a
tall straight highball glass two ounces (or a bit more if you
wish a stronger drink) of rye whisky, add cracked ice and
fiU glass with ginger ale, vichy or seltzer, as preferred. Top
 with a bit of tweaked yellow lemon peel. To make a Rum,
Gin, Sloe Gin, Scotch, Bourbon or Irish Highball, just use
either Gin or Whisky and perform the same rite of adding
ice and effervescent liquid and lemon peel.
 104                                     What Shall We Drink?
              MIXING A CLARET SANGAREE
   Into a goblet one-third full of shaved ice pour equal parts
of Claret wine and seltzer or carbonated water, sweetening
with "gum" to suit taste and stirring in some grated nutmeg
as desired.
              MIXING A RHINE AND SELTZER
    This simple drink is much hked by the Germans. Fill a
wine goblet half full of Rhine Wine, add two ice cubes and fill
glass with very cold seltzer. Stir and drink.
          MIXING A RHINE WINE LEMONADE
     Use wine goblet and put in juice of a half lemon, a table
spoon of "gum," cracked ice to fill at least a third of glass,
fill with Rhine wine, stir and add to top fruits in season.
That's all—except to drink it, sipping.
               MIXING A WHISKY SMASH
   Choose your favorite Whisky—Rye, Scotch, Bourbon or
Irish—and into a tumbler half full of cracked or shaved ice,
as you wish, pom two ounces of Whisky, or more, if you like
it "stiff," fizz with two squirts of vichy or seltzer, sweeten to
taste with "gum," stir in a few drops of lemon juice and then
fiU glass to top with shaved ice, sipping through straws or
drinking at rim. Topped with a thin half shce of lemon and
a quarter slice of orange, it is more tempting.
        HOW TO MAKE A SUISSETTE FRAPPE
    Into your shaker well iced, preferably with finely shaved
ice, pour one pony of Flora Suiza and one pony of sparkling
water. Shake until shaker's surface is frosted. Strain into
tall slender tumbler, fill with vichy, seltzer or carbonated
water and drink.

   HOW TO MAKE A MAMIE TAYLOR HIGHBALL
    Squeeze into a highball glass the juice of two Hmes, add
two ounces of dry gin, two cubes of ice and fill glass with
very cold ginger ale, stirring with spoon. Top with a tweaked
bit of yellow lemon rind.
Mixed Drinks                                               105
                   CATAWBA COBBLER
   This is a delightful cobbler and can be served either in a
large or tall slender tumbler, depending on the size of drink
you wish. Fill glass half full of shaved ice and pour in a
tablespoon of "gum," filling balance of glass to within a half
inch of top with Catawba Wine. Stir well and crown top
with berries or fruits. Sip through straws or glass sippers.
                  BRANDY SANGAREE
   Stir in small tumbler containing a tablespoon of shaved
ice, two ounces of brandy, an ounce of carbonated water
and a teaspoon of "gum." Strain into small wine glass and
top with grated nutmeg or powdered cinnamon. A bit of
Sherry floated on top before adding the powdered spice is
very agreeable.
           HOW TO MAKE A HORSE'S NECK
   For the Horse's Neck you need a tall straight glass of the
highball type, but slightly larger. That's the reason for the
name. It should have been a "Giraffe's Neck" because the
drink is so "long." Anyway, here's how: Carefully cut the
rind of a whole lemon, starting at one end and slicing in a
spiral fashion to end the cutting at the other end. Place this
spiral of yellow skin in glass, letting one end rest on top rim
of glass and the spiral winding downward to bottom of glass.
Now a few lumps or cubes of ice, an ovmce of rye whisky
(sometimes omitted entirely) and fill glass to brim with cold
ginger ale. The bit of whisky prevents this drink from being
insipid to the man who fikes a small "kick" on a hot day.
               THE HORSE'S NECK STIFF
   Do as above but add to contents a good two-ounce drink
of any kind of whisky you prefer.
             MIXING A MISSISSIPPI FLOAT
   Use a 12-ounce thin glass and pour in one oimce of
Grenadine and two ounces of Chartreuse, adding juice of a
quarter lemon and a teaspoon of "gum." Fill glass third full
106                                      What Shall We Drink?
of fine ice, and then send into mixture a stream of effervescent
water of any kind to fill glass. Top with a couple of straw
berries or Maraschino cherries.

              MIXING A SPORT'S DELIGHT
    Mix in iced shaker two ounces of Apricot Brandy and the
juice of a half orange and a half lemon, add a tablespoon of
gum and shake thoroughly. Partly fill a 12-ounce glass with
fine ice, add the mixture, fiU glass with effervescent water of
any kind and stir before drinking or sipping through straws.
               MIXING A SHERRY BISHOP
   Bring to a slow boil over very small flame two bottles of
Sherry Wine. While this is being done, bake in a very hot
oven one lemon stabbed with cloves. When lemon is well
browned, place it in the boiling Sherry Wine, add four table
spoons of "gum" and a half pint of distilled water, the juice
of one lemon and the thinly shaved rind of same. Serve hot,
or, if you prefer a cooler drink, let stand till cool, then cMU in
freezer for a half hour and serve.

                 MIXING A PORT BISHOP
    Bake in hot oven, one lemon stabbed with cloves imtil
brown. While it is baking bring to a boil one quart bottle
of Port Wine, boiling slowly. When lemon is done, place in
the wine, add the free juice of a fresh half lemon, four table
spoons of "gum," and the thin yellow rind only of one lemon.
Let stand in cooking vessel until hot enough to be drinkable,
serving as warm as lips can stand the heat. If too "heady,"
a bit of hot water may be used to dilute to strength desired.
               MAKING ITALIAN LEMONADE
    This is a delightful drink for any party of guests which
you might mix in a lemonade pitcher. Mix juice of four
lemons and four oranges, a quarter pint of Creme de Cocoa,
a quarter pint of Creme de Rose and a half pint of rich cream.
Add plenty of shaved ice, fill pitcher with carbonated water,
stir well and serve in lemonade glasses with straws.
Mixed Drinks                                              107
               MIXING A CLARET BISHOP
   Place in stewpan one bottle of Claret and add four table
spoons of "giun," two cloves, the yeUow rind of only half an
orange, one small bit of the yellow rind of a lemon, and heat
until vapors rise just before boiling starts. Turn off flame
and let cool. Strain mixtme through muslin into a small
punch bowl containing cracked ice, or put in freezer imtil
chilled, and serve.
      MAKING A CREME DE MENTHE FRAPPE
    This is so easy that it almost needs no guidance. Fill a
cocktail or sherbet glass to rim with finely shaved ice. Pom-
over ice two tablespoons of Creme de Menthe Cordial. Let
stand until frost forms on glass. Then sip or use straw. Fine
after heavy meal.
            MAKING A GRENADINE FRAPPE
   The ladies will like this just as much as they'll like the
Creme de Menthe Frappe. Fill cocktail or sherbet glass as
given above with fine ice. Pom over it three tablespoons of
Grenadine. Let glass show frost before sipping. Men won't
like this because it is too sweet, but as for the ladies—well,
sweets to the sweet!

               MIXING A BOSTON COOLER
   Use a small punch bowl well iced and put in a quart of
ginger ale, one ounce of Creme de Cocoa, four ounces of
brandy and diced fruits of several kinds. Mix well and serve
to your bridge foursome.
         MIXING A "NEXT MORNING" SUISSE
   After the "night before" nothing is more conducive to a
feeling of relief than the "Next Morning" Suisse. Mix it like
this: In a large tumbler partly filled with fine ice pour an
ounce of Gin, an ounce of Anisette, a half ounce of Absinthe
and the partly beaten white of one egg. Mix thoroughly and
pour into small shell glass. Fill with ice cold vichy and
drink it down.
108                                     What Shall We Drink?

                     VICTORIA FRAPPE
    Dating back to Queen Victoria's reign the Victoria Frappe
is still highly relished in Britain's best circles. Merely fill a
sherbet glass to rim with finely shaved ice. Pour over ice
three tablespoons of Sloe Gin and sip when glass is frosty.

         MAKING A CREME DE COCOA FRAPPE
   Another nice one for the ladies! Fill a sherbet glass to
rim with finely shaved ice. Pour over ice two tablespoons of
Creme de Cocoa and stir until glass is frosted. Then sip.

         MIXING A GOOD NIGHT "BON SOIR"
   For the parting drink after a sociable evening nothing is
more dehghtful than the Good Night Bon Soir. Fill a sherbet
glass half full of ice and pour over ice a half pony of Bene
dictine and an equal amount of Creme de Yvette. Fill glass
with ginger ale or soda water, stir and have your pleasant
nightcap.
                          RUM SHRUB
   A delightful Rum Shrub is made of one gallon of rum
(any kind you Hke best, but Bacardi chances to be my prefer
ence), a quart and a half of orange juice, a pint of lemon
juice and the oily yeUow rinds of four lemons. Don't get
white pith in mixture. Into this mixture pour one pint finest
French Brandy and a quart and a half of distilled water.
Sweeten to taste and let stand for four days before using.
This is an excellent beverage to bottle and have ready in
large or small quantities for the favored guest or guests.
Best served cold, when used.
                     CATAWBA SYRUP
   To make a nice Catawba Syrup, which comes in handily
both as an aid to the culinary department as well as in drink
mixtures, mix equal parts of "gum" and Catawba Wine and
put away for use in a bottle. You can make as large or small
a quantity as you wish, using these equal proportions. It
will keep indefinitely.
 Mixed Drinks                                             109
                    MIXING A BRACE-UP
     Another morning bracer is the Brace-Up. Mix 2 oimces
 Creme de Cocoa with a half ounce of Chartreuse and two
 dashes of Angostura Bitters in an iced shaker, pour into
 tumbler three-quarters full of fine ice, add six ounces nulk,
 fill glass with seltzer, stir well and drink.
            MIXING A COLD WHISKY TODDY
     Dissolve in a tumbler one-half teaspoon of powdered
 sugar in a teaspoon of water (or use a tablespoon of "gxim"),
 add two ounces of whisky (any kind), stir well, add a bit of
 cracked ice, stir to chill, and drink.
                    HOT WHISKY TODDY
    Do as above but dispense with ice, and half fiill tumbler
 with hot water, with a bit of yellow lemon rind on top after
 tweaking its oU into glass.
                 BRANDY TODDY (COLD)
     Do as in Cold Whisky Toddy, substituting Brandy.
                    HOT BRANDY TODDY
     Do as in Hot Whisky Toddy, substituting Brandy.
i,                    COLD GIN TODDY
     Do as in Cold Whisky Toddy,but use three oimces of gin.
                       HOT GIN TODDY
     Do as in Hot Whisky Toddy, but use three ounces of gin.
                  OLD-FASHIONED TODDY
     Use an old-fashioned cocktail glass to receive a table
 spoon of "gum" and about two and a half ounces of Rye
 (or any other whisky you prefer). Now add a dash of
 vichy, seltzer or carbonated water and stir gently. Add a
 quarter slice of lemon, and drink.
              HOT OLD-FASHIONED TODDY
     Do as above, except to serve in heavy tumbler and add
 hot water to fill half a glass.
110                                    What Shall We Drink?
                   HOT SHERRY TODDY
    Sherry Toddies never should be made cold. Fill heavy
glass tumbler one third full of Sherry Wine. Add a table-
spoonful of "gum" and fill glass with boiling hot water, being
careful to pour into center and not strike liquid against the
glass. Top with a half sUce of orange.
                     SLOE GIN TODDY
   For hot or cold Sloe Gin Toddy, do as in others above.
                    ABSINTHE FRAPPE
   Use small goblet. Pour in two ounces (less would be
better) of Absinthe. FiU glass with finely shaved ice and add
water till it nearly runs off. Stir and sip.
   This may be modified by adding a teaspoon of "gum."
                    WHISKY COBBLER
    In a large tumbler pour three ounces of Whisky (any
kind) and add three teaspoons of pineapple syrup and a
tablespoon of gum. Stir thoroughly, then fill glass with
finely chipped ice, topping with quarter slice of orange,
quarter shce of lemon and a couple of strawberries, rasp
berries or other fruits in season.

                      GIN SANGAREE
    Use a small glass, conical in shape. Pour in a tablespoon
of "gum,"two ounces of gin (a bit more if you hke it stronger),
add a tablespoon of cracked ice, stir with spoon and on top
carefully pour a tablespoon of Sherry Wine to have it rest on
top of drink, much as a pousse cafe might be served.
                      ROCK AND RYE
   A whisky glass should be used to receive a teaspoon of
rock candy syrup and two ounces of Rye Whisky. Stir and
add a dash of lemon juice.
                   WHISKY AND CIDER
     Into a tumbler pour two ounces of whisky (any kind),
fill glass with cold cider and stir well before drinking.
Mixed Drinks                                               111
                  BRUNSWICK COOLER
   Into a large goblet pour the juice of one lemon and a
tablespoon of "gum," Mix well and add one ounce of fine
Rye Whisky, filling glass with ice cold ginger ale. Top with
                       DIZZY SOUR
   For a Dizzy Sour you require the shaker. Into it pour one
and a half ounces of Whisky and a teaspoon of Benedictine.
Half fill with cracked ice to make thoroughly cold. Now
mash a half lemon in a separate httle bowl, grinding into it a
teaspoon of granulated or powdered sugar until sugar is
dissolved. Put the entire noiixture into the shaker and shake
thoroughly. Strain off into small glass and top with a quarter
shce orange, lemon or piece of pineapple. Then float, as in
pousse cafe, a tablespoon of rum on top. Don't drink too
many! It's a dizzy drhik, as its name impUes.
                       MULLED ALE
   FiU a mug three quarters full with ale. Into the ale
thrust directly in the center a white hot iron. The ale wUl
tend to bubble, but remove iron before ale goes over top and
drink.
                   PORTER SANGAREE
   Into an ale glass pour to within an inch of the top of glass
some good old Porter. Add a tablespoon of "gum," stir
thoroughly and crown with a pinch of powdered nutmeg.
                  RHINE WINE COBBLER
   Germans are very fond of this Rhine Wine Cobbler, and
with good reason. Use a large goblet and pour into it a
tablespoon of "gum," add five ounces of Rhine Wine, fill
glass with fine ice, stir and top with fruits in season. Imbibe
through straws.
                   MOSELLE COBBLER
   Do as in Rhine Wine Cobbler.

                  CHABLIS COBBLER
   Do as in Rhine Wine Cobbler.
112                                   What Shall We Drink?
                   ORGEAT LEMONADE
    This delicious driuk for a warm day cannot be too highly
recommended. Use large goblet and pour into it a table
spoon of lemon juice which mix thoroughly with three ounces
of Orgeat syrup or one and half ounces of Orgeat Cordial.
Fill glass two thirds full with sparkling water and add finely
shaved ice to fiU. Top with fruits or berries in season and
drink through straws.
                         HOT RUM
   Use a thick goblet to resist heat and pour into it a table
spoon of "gum,"two ounces of Rum (any kind you hke),a bit
of butter to cover a dime, stir well and fiU glass with hot
water, stirring while doing so. A top coating of cinnamon or
nutmeg (just a pinch of either or both) helps to improve the
drink.
                    SARATOGA COOLER
   Into a large tumbler pour strained juice of a half lemon,
a tablespoon of "gum," stir weU, and add one ounce only of
whisky (or brandy or rum, as you prefer, but not more
than one ovmce, just to prevent insipidity). Fill glass a
quarter fuU of cracked ice and the balance with ginger ale,
stirring to mix ingredients.
                     MULLED PORTER
   Into a mug, either pewter or glazed, pour three quarters
of capacity of Porter or London Stout or Dublin Stout.
Into it right in the center thrust a white hot iron, withdraw
ing iron before contents bubble over rim. Drink at once for
best enjoyment.
                         RUM SOUR
      Mix in large tumbler haK fuU of ice, two ounces of rum,
a quarter teaspoon of lemon juice, a half teaspoon of "gum"
and as much of vichy, seltzer or carbonated water. After
stirring thoroughly, strain into a small shallow glass and
crown with a quarter slice of lemon, a quarter slice of orange
and a few pineapple dice. Serve with teaspoon.
Mixed Drinks                                                113
                       STONE WALL
     Use large goblet to receive a teaspoon of "gum," two
ounces of whisky, which stir well together. Cracked ice to
fill a third of the glass and soda water to fill, complete this
drink. Stir weU with spoon before imbibing.
                    ABSINTHE SUISSE
   In shaker with ice pour one ounce of Absinthe, a quarter
teaspoon of Anisette and add the partly beaten white of one
egg. Shake thoroughly, strain into a straight side small glass
and fin with cold vichy, seltzer or carbonated water, stirring
mixture till thoroughly blended.
                      STONE FENCE
   Odd name, isn't it? But it is mellow with time and
tradition. Here's how to make one:
   Into a small shell glass pour two ounces of Whisky (any
kind you hke, or Applejack if you prefer), add a tablespoon of
cracked ice, fill with cider, stir well, and have your drink.
                     BRANDY SLING
   Use for this a heavy tumbler to receive two ounces of
(any) brandy, a tablespoon of "gum," a piece of yellow lemon
rind, and a piece of orange rind, both tweaked before dropping
into glass. Fill glass two thirds fuU of hot water. Stir
thoroughly and dust a pinch of cinnamon or grated nutmeg,
or both, on top of fluid before drinking.
                     WHISKY SLING
   Same as Brandy Shng, substituting any Whisky for
brandy.
                        GIN SLING
   Same as Brandy Sling, substituting three ounces of gin.
                  BENEDICTINE SLING
   Same as Brandy Sling, substituting three oimces of
Benedictine.
                        RUM SLING
   Same as Brandy Sling, substituting two ounces of Rum.
114                                   What Shall We Drink?
                     MULLED CLARET
   Pour into a small stewpan six ounces of Claret Wine, a
quarter tablespoon of lemon juice, two broken cloves, three
broken allspice, a quarter teaspoon of powdered cinnamon
(or nutmeg) and two tablespoons of "gum." Boil for two
minutes and strain into heavy small goblet.
                     BRANDY SHRUB
   Peel off the yellow rinds of two lemons, add the strained
juice, discard the pulp. Steep juice and rinds for two days
in one quart of brandy and then add one pint of Sherry Wine,
one pint of "gum" and stir thoroughly. Strain through
muslin into half gallon bottle or into two quart bottles,
ready for use at any time.
                      BLACK STRIPE
   This drink originated in the South during the period
preceding the Civil War and was much relished by the old-
time planters and plantation folk. It also has been a popular
West Indies drink. It is simply made. On top of one table
spoon of molasses pour two ounces of (any) rum. Mix well
with spoon and fill small goblet with a tablespoon of ice and
cold vichy, seltzer or carbonated water. It is also delightful
in cold weather with hot water used instead of the cold.
Some folks top with a pinch of cinnamon or grated nutmeg.
I prefer mine without, to preserve the rum fiavor—and my
rum preference for this drink is Bacardi or Santa Cruz. Some
use brandy, whisky, gin or Benedictine in making Black
Stripe, instead of using rum.
                 HOT TOM AND JERRY
   Into a heavy goblet or mug pour two ounces of brandy and
one oimce of Rum. Add the white of one egg beaten to a
froth with either one and a half teaspoons of powdered sugar
or a tablespoon of "gum" and then beaten together with the
already beaten yolk. Stir well together and while stirring
pour in hot water or hot milk. Professional mixers toss the
Mixed Drinks                                                 115
mixture from one mug or glass into another several times be
fore serving, but an amateur probably will have to be con
tent with drinking it after a thorough spoon stirring. Grated
nutmeg on top isn't a necessity but it adds to the enjoyment
of the drink.
   Tom and Jerry also may be served cold if desired, using
shaved ice and filling goblet with vichy, seltzer or carbonated
water.             CHAMPAGNE VELVET
   Here's another delightful drink, simply made of equal
parts of very cold Porter and Champagne,for as large or small
a party as requires entertaining. Stir gently and serve at
once, very cold.
                       KNICKERBEIN
    So far as can be traced, this drink originated (under a
different name) during the days when the old Dutch patroons
ruled Manhattan Island. Made up like a pousse cafe, in a
Sherry glass, one third is composed with Vanilla Cordial on
which is floated carefully the yolk of a fresh egg. This in
turn is covered with Benedictine, then a third portion of
Kuemmel tops the mixture in another layer. Into center
drop two drops of Angostura Bitters. Sip layer after layer
carefully, swallowing yolk last.
                   BRANDY MINT SMASH
   There are several variations of the Brandy Smash, but
this is my favorite: Two ounces of Cognac Brandy poured on
thinly shaved ice in a goblet. Two sprigs of bruised table
mint (or, if you are unable to get fresh mint, a teaspoon of
Creme de Menthe Cordial) now go into the glass with "gum"
to suit taste. (I use a tablespoonful). A dash of Arrack com
pletes the ingredients. Stir well in the ice and strain off into
a Sherry glass. Crown with fruits you like and sip.
    Using this formula, with or without the mint, you may
also make Gin Smash, Rum Smash, Whisky Smash, or any
other liquor smash you choose to caU it, by merely sub
stituting the liquor you want for the brandy.
116                                    What Shall We Drink?

                      WHISKY SHAKE
    Into a small tumbler pour two ounces of whisky, add
juice of one lemon or of two limes, one and a half tablespoons
of "gum", fill with ice and stir thoroughly. You may leave
mixtme in same glass and imbibe through straws or strain
liquid only into a smaller glass to drink.
                     BRANDY SHAKE
   Same as Whisky Shake, using brandy for whisky.
                        GIN SHAKE
   Like Whisky Shake, using gin for whisky.
                        RUM SHAKE
   Same as Whisky Shake, using nun for whisky.
                   APPLEJACK SHAKE
   Same as Whisky Shake, using Applejack for whisky.
                     SHERRY SHAKE
   Same as Yv^'hisky Shake, but using three to four ounces
of Sherry.
                 CHAMPAGNE COBBLER
   Pour into a large goblet one teaspoon of"gum" and thin it
a bit with water (carbonated preferred). Add two quarter
slices of lemon and of orange, fill glass with ice and add as
much Champagne as ice permits. Sip through straws.
             MAKING A CHARTREUSE FRAPPE
   Fill a cocktail or sherbet glass with finely shaved ice.
Pour over three tablespoons of Chartreuse and let it stand till
glass shows frost. Sip when ready.
              MAKING AN APRICOT FRAPPE
   Fill cocktail or sherbet glass with fine ice and pour over
three tablespoons of Apricot Cordial. Men prefer Apricot
Brandy.
             MAKING A BENEDICTINE FRAPPE
   Same as Chartreuse and Cherry Cordial, substituting
Benedictine.
Mixed Drinks                                                117
        MAKING A CHERRY CORDIAL FRAPPE
   Follow same directions as in Chartreuse, only substi
tuting Cherry Cordial.
               MIXING A HOT GIN SLING
   Naturally, when mixing a hot drink, you must use a
thick glass—goblet or tumbler of the shallow type. Mix a
teaspoon of "gum" and the juice of a quarter lemon, then
pour in two ounces of gin and fill with hot water, stirring
thoroughly before drinking.
              MAKING A MINT HIGHBALL
   Women fike this more than men and it's simply made.
In a highball glass pour an ounce of Creme de Menthe, add
cracked ice and fill glass with ginger ale. That's aU.
                  MIXING A BISMARCK
   Into a goblet more than two-thirds full of fine ice pour two
ounces of Apricot Brandy or Cordial, milk to fiU glass and
stir. Top with favorite mixture of fruits.
                       WHITE PLUSH
   Use a small shell for this drink, born many, many years
ago but just as agreeable now as when invented. Pour out
two ounces of Whisky, Sherry Wine, Brandy or Gin, as you
prefer, and fill glass with fresh milk. Simple, isn't it? Per
haps that's why it is more than fifty years old. It's the simple
drinks which survive, after all.
                      BRANDY DAISY
   Squeeze a half lemon and strain the juice into a tall
slender goblet, add a teaspoon of "gum," a teaspoon of orange
cordial or orange syrup, two ounces of brandy. Fill glass half
full of shaved ice and fill with vichy, seltzer or carbonated
water, stirring thoroughly while siphoning the stream into
                      WHISKY DAISY
   Same as Brandy Daisy, substituting whisky.
                         GIN DAISY
   Same as Brandy Daisy, substituting gin.
118                                     What Shall We Drink?
                         RUM DAISY
    Same as Brandy Daisy, substituting your favorite Rum.
Some folks prefer to add a dash of Curacao and lime juice
instead of lemon, and omit the sparkling water, straining
mixture into smaU glass of the cocktail type. Suit yourself.
                       SHERRY DAISY
    Same as Brandy Daisy, but using three ounces of Sherry.
                        HOT WHISKY
   Into heavy small tumbler pour two ounces (any) Whisky,
one tablespoon of "gum," a small sliver of yellow lemon peel
tweaked over ingredients, and half fill tumbler with hot
water,topping off with a pinch of cinnamon or grated nutmeg.
                      "SKIN" DRINKS
   All skin drinks are mixed the same and are called Whisky
Skin, Brandy Skin, Gin Skin, Rum Skin, Sherry Skin, etc.,
according to the liquor used. For example, let's mix a
"Whisky Skin.
   Take one teaspoon of "gum," two ounces of whisky and
mix well, adding a bit of tweaked lemon peel and half filling
small heavy tumbler with hot water. Stir well and use spoon
                       'ALF AND 'ALF
    England gave birth to this oldtimer. Into a large ale
glass pour equal quantities of Ale and Porter. Stir and drink.
That's all, but the drink has come down in song and story for
two centuries.      SHERRY AND EGG
   Another ancient favorite is the Sherry and egg com
bination,made by simply dropping into a wineglass of Sherry
one fresh egg, leaving room in the glass, of course, for the egg.
Drink without stirring up the egg, the whites first and then
the yolk, which let glide into the mouth with the last mouthful
                     SHERRY FRAPPE
   A dehghtful Sherry Frappe is made by the simple process
of pouring two tablespoons (or more, if you like) over a
sherbet glass full of lemon ices.
                         Chapter XI

  Applejack Specials—New, Up-to-
                    date Recipes
   Into Omar Khayyam's "scheme of things entire" has
crept a widespread use of "Applejack," once facetiously re
ferred to as "Jersey Lightning." Yet even Omar would not
scorn it today were he to taste some of the deUcious drinks
which may be mixed with this modernly distilled and re
fined liquor.
   One might as well scorn fine whisky because of inhibitions
against "moonshine" as to scoff at Applejack because of the
crude, old-fashioned methods used in its manufacture years
ago. Today, it may be used in almost any mixed drink to
replace whisky, gin or brandy, and the drink would be
enjoyable.
   I shall not give any recipes heretofore given and in which
Applejack might be substituted, but will devote this chapter
to mixed drinks which have Applejack as their basic ingredi
ent. In these, too, if your Applejack stock should run low,
you might alternate with whisky, as they are virtually half-
brothers, if not the twins, of the alcoholic family.
    By observing the same methods of mixing and shaking
other cocktails in shaker containing ice, try some of these
Applejack cocktails, selected very carefully from a long list
as ones which the author has tried and can recommend.
                  APPLE COCKTAIL NO. 1
   To one ounce of Applejack, and one ounce of sweet cider,
add a half ounce sweet gin and a half ounce of apricot brandy.
Shake, serve in cocktail glass.
                NEW YORK APPLE COCKTAIL
    One ounce Applejack, one ounce Itahan Vermouth, two
dashes Angostma Bitters and one teaspoon of Sherry should
 be shaken in iced shaker until very cold. Pour, and top glass
 with a tweaked bit of yellow lemon rind.
                              119
120                                     What Shall We Drink?
                      JACK-m-THE BOX
    Use equal parts of Applejack and pineapple juice, add
juice of one lemon, a dash of Angostura Bitters, shake and
serve.

                  ANGEL FACE COCKTAIL
   Shake together equal parts of Dry Gin, Apricot Brandy
and Applejack. My suggestion is to use%ovmce of each.

                  APPLE COCKTAIL NO. 2
   Into shaker pour one and a half to two ounces of Applejack
and add two dashes of Bitters and a half teaspoon of "gum."
Shake till very cold and serve.
                  APPLE COCKTAIL FANCY
    Pour one and a half ounces of Applejack into iced shaker,
add a teaspoon of Maraschino Cordial and a half teaspoon of
Orange Bitters. Shake well and serve.
             APPLE GRENADINE COCKTAIL
   Shake together one and a half ounces Applejack, a hnlf
teaspoon of lemon juice and a tablespoon of Grenadine. Serve
when very cold.
             MAPLE APPLEJACK COCKTAIL
   An ounce and a half each of Applejack and maple syrup,
juice of a half orange and of a half lemon should be shaken in
ice and served.

             APPLE DUBONNET COCKTAIL
   Use equal parts Applejack and Dubonnet,shake in ice and
serve. Make this as small or large as your thirst requires.
               APPLE SCOTCH COCKTAIL
   This is a he-man's drink and calls for three-quarters ounce
each of Applejack and Scotch Whisky, and one and a half
ounces of dry gin, shaken well before serving very cold.
                  COURONNE COCKTAIL
   Half ounce each of gin and Applejack, two ounces of
Vermouth, a half ounce of Cointreau, a teaspoon of lemon
juice and a quarter teaspoon of Angostura Bitters, when
shaken well in ice, make a delightful cocktail.
Applejack Specials                                        121
               COINTREAU APPLE COCKTAIL
   To one ounce of Cointreau and one ounce of apricot
brandy add a half ounce Applejack and a half ounce of
Absinthe. Shake well and serve.

                  CALVADOS COCKTAIL
   This is a dehcious drink and is mixed one ounce each of
Applejack and orange juice and a half ounce each of Cointreau
and Orange Bitters. Shake well in ice.
                  COUNTRY COCKTAIL
   One and a half ounces of Applejack, three-quarter ounce
of Curacao, a teaspoon of lemon juice and the same of "gum"
are shaken together in ice and served.
               DEAUVILLE COCKTAIL NO. 1
   One ounce Chartreuse, one ounce raspberry syrup, one
ounce of Applejack, two dashes of lemon juice, shaken in ice,
make your Deauvllle Cocktail.
               DEAUVILLE COCKTAIL NO.2
   Here's a nice variation: Take equal parts—an ounce or less
each—of Applejack, lemon juice, apricot brandy and Coin
treau. Shake well and serve very cold.
                     ELIXIR COCKTAIL
   So simply made that it is a pleasure, you merely shake
together equal parts of Applejack and Kola Tonic,serving cold.
                     EMPIRE COCKTAIL
   Another stiff he-man's drink is the Empire Cocktail mixed
thus: One and a half ounces gin, three-quarter ounce each of
Applejack and apricot brandy. Shake till very cold and serve
with a cherry.
                 FRENCH COCKTAIL NO. 1
    Pack half full of finely shaved ice the bowl of your cock
tail glass, fill with equal parts of Benedictine and Applejack,
stir slightly and serve with straw.
                 MIAMI BEACH COCKTAIL
    Use equal parts (say, an ounce each) of Applejack, lemon
juice. Maraschino Cordial and shake well in ice before serving
with cherry.
122                                     What Shall We Drink?
                FRENCH COCKTAIL NO.2
    One and a half ounces of gin and three-quarter ounce
Applejack are shaken with a teaspoon of Grenadine and a
spoonful of orange or lemon juice,as you wish. Serve very cold.
                GOLDEN DAWN COCKTAIL
   Into iced shaker pour one and a half ounces of Applejack,
three-quarters ounce orange juice, the same amount of apricot
brandy and a quarter teaspoon of Grenadine. Serve cold.
                HONEY MOON COCKTAIL
    Use one and a half ounces each of Applejack and Benedic
tine; add a teaspoon of Curacao and the juice of a quarter
lemon. Shake till very cold and serve.
                   MISSOURI COCKTAIL
   Pour out a half ounce Creme de Cocoa, an ounce of Apple
jack, a teaspoon of "gmn," two ounces of milk, shake well,
serve cold and top with a pinch of grated nutmeg. A de-
hghtful drink.
                NEW YORKER COCKTAIL
   To two ounces of Applejack add the juice of a half lemon
and a teaspoon of powdered sugar or a tablespoon of "gum."
Shake well and serve in cocktail glass, floating on top about a
tablespoon of Claret wine.
               PARISIAN STAR COCKTAIL
   Use one and a half ounces each of Applejack and lemon
juice, add a dash of Cointreau and a dash of Angostura
Bitters. Shake till cold and serve.

               PRINCESS COCKTAIL NO. 1
   To an ounce and a half of dry gin add three-quarters ounce
each of Applejack and apricot brandy and a dash of lemon
juice. Shake well and serve. This is a stiff he-man's drink,so
don't use too many at one sitting.
              PRINCESS COCKTAIL NO. 2
   This variation is to please the ladies, bless their hearts!
Use one ounce of Applejack, a half ounce each of Dubonnet
and French Vermouth,shake well, and serve in dainty Sherry
glass.
Applejack Specials                                       123
             ROCKING HORSE COCKTAIL
   Not for babies, this one! Use equal parts—say one ounce
each of gin and Applejack, a dash of Orange Bitters and a
dash of Curacao,shaking well and serving cold.
                    ROULETTE COCKTAIL
    If you're nervously watching the croupiers and your luck
is poor, maybe this drink will brace you up and cause you to
place your bets better: Mix one ounce of Applejack and a half
ounce each of Swedish Punch and Bacardi Rum; shake till
cold and drink it down. Don't blame the drink if hard luck
still pursues you.
              SANTA BARBARA COCKTAIL
   This hails from Cahfornia and its golden sands. Mix two
ounces of Applejack, one ounce of grapefruit juice, a teaspoon
of apricot brandy and a half teaspoon of "gum." Shake well
in ice and serve.
                     SHERRY COCKTAIL
   Into shaker pour two ounces of Sherry Wine, one ounce of
Applejack, a teaspoon of orange juice, a half teaspoon of
"gum" and two drops of Angostura Bitters. Shake well and
serve.
                     TORPEDO COCKTAIL
    This is a real he-man's drink and is guaranteed to pack a
kick strong enough to satisfy anyone. Mix two ounces of
Applejack and one ounce of apricot brandy. Add a dash or
two of dry gin, shake well and serve.
           SWEET SONORA COCKTAIL NO. 1
    Out of Mexico comes this mixture of one ounce of Apple
jack, one ounce of Bacardi Rum, a dash of lemon juice and
two dashes of apricot brandy. Mexico, naturally, likes 'em
hot! Hot, that is, in ingredients, but shake in ice and serve
 cold.
                    SWEET SONORA NO.2
    And, lest the ladies pout, we'll give them this variation:
 a half ounce Applejack, a half ounce Italian Vermouth, a
 quarter ounce of gin and a teaspoon of Grenadine, shaken
 well and served very cold in dainty Sherry glass.
 124                                     What Shall We Drink?
                      SroNEY COCKTAIL
    This one hails from far-off Australia and is made of one and
 a half ounces of Applejack, three-quarter ounce of Cointreau
and a teaspoon of lemon juice, shaken well and served cold.

    And now let us try a few other types of mixed drinks with
 Applejack as their main base.
                HILDICK OLD FASHIONED
    Grind in tall tumbler a Imnp of sugar into a slice of orange
tUl sugar is dissolved, add a dash of Angostura Bitters, a
teaspoon of pineapple sjTup, two ounces of Applejack and
three pineapple shavings. Fill glass third fuU of finely shaved
ice and pour balance full of Ginger Ale. Stir weU and drink
through straws or from glass direct.
                APPLEJACK HIGHBALL
    Two ounces of Applejack are poured over ice in tumbler or
highball glass. Then fill with ginger ale, stir and drink. This
may be varied by using vichy, seltzer or carbonated water and
a dash of Angostura Bitters.
                       APPLE BRANDY
    One ounce of Applejack and a spoonful of "gmn" are
poured into thick tumbler or mug. Fill with hot water, top
with grated nutmeg and drink.
                        APPLE GROG
   This is nice on a cold night for a party. To two quarts of
tea add two pounds of sugar, two quarts of Applejack and
two and a half quarts of boiling water. Stir until sugar is
thoroughly dissolved. Serve in mugs topped with half slices
of lemon. Some add a sprinkling of grated nutmeg or cinna
mon.
                      APPLE COBBLER
   To an ounce and a half of Applejack, two teaspoons of
pineapple syrup and a tablespoon of "gum," stirred together
in large goblet, add half glass of finely shaved ice, fill glass
with seltzer, vichy or carbonated water (or plain water, if you
wish), stir and drink through straws. You might top with
fruits in season if you desire.
Applejack Specials                                           125
                  APPLE CHARLIE HORSE
   This will help any game-legged drinker after a round of
golf: Use an ounce each of Applejack,lemon juice and Sherry
Wine, stir in ice and drink.
                     APPLEJACK PUNCH
   Fill shaker three-quarters full of shaved ice, pour in two
tablespoons of "gum," an ounce of water, two ounces of
Applejack, the juice of a quarter lemon;stir weU and top with
fruits in season. Serve with straws or glass sippers.
                   APPLEJACK RICKEY
   Use small highball glass or "shell" to receive one and a
half ounces Applejack, a teaspoon of sugar dissolved in two
teaspoons of lemon juice and some cracked ice. Fill glass
with ginger ale, stir and drink.
                     APPLE JACK SLENG
   To one teaspoon of "gum" add a teaspoon of lime juice,
an ounce and a half of Applejack, a couple of lumps of ice.
Fill "shell" with chilled water and top with grated nutmeg
after stirring.
                     APPLEJACK SOUR
   Take juice of a half hme and of a half lemon, add an ounce
and a half of Applejack, a dash of Grenadine, a teaspoon of
powdered sugar, stir in shell or goblet and, if desired, fill with
vichy, carbonated water or seltzer, or drink from "old-
fashioned" glass, as you will, without the effervescent Uquid.
                     APPLE SANGAREE
    Place two lumps of ice in a small goblet, add an ounce and
a half of Applejack and an equal amount of vichy or seltzer,
stir well and add a dash of grated nutmeg on top. A short
drink, but refreshing. If you wish it stronger and longer, use
in same proportions.
                AVIATOR(COCKTAIL)
   One and a half ounces of Applejack, three-quarter ounce
of Bacardi Rum, three dashes of Grenadine, the juice of a
lime and a half teaspoon of "gum" are shaken till thoroughly
chilled, then served in cocktail glass.
 126                                     What Shall We Drink?
                    CAPE COD RAINBOW
    This drink would lend strength to any Cape Cod denizen.
 Try one. Fill two-thirds of a cocktail or sherbet glass with
 finely shaved ice. Pour in an ounce of Applejack, a teaspoon
 of "gum," a teaspoon of lemon, grapefruit or orange juice, a
 dash of Grenadine and top with a tablespoon of Creme de
 Menthe floating. Twist a sliver of yellow lemon peel over
 drink and enjoy it.
                  GRAPEFRUIT HIGHBALL
    Into highball glass pour an ounce and a half of Applejack,
put in several pieces of cracked ice, fill glass with grapefruit
juice, stir and garnish with a sprig of fresh table mint.
                        JERSEY SOUR
   To three dashes of lemon juice add a tablespoon of "gum,"
two ounces of Applejack, and after stirring well in a bit of ice,
serve in Claret glass with a few dashes of vichy or seltzer.
                       ROYAL FRAPPE
    Over finely shaved ice in cocktail or Sherbet glass pour a
half ounce of gin and an ounce and a half of Applejack, adding
a teaspoon of Grenadine. Stir and sip.
                         ROYAL FIZZ
    Mix in tumbler one partly beaten egg, two dashes of lime
juice, five dashes of lemon juice, a tablespoon of "gum" and
two ounces of Applejack. Add ice and fill glass with seltzer
or vichy. Stir and drink through straws.
                TEA (OR COFFEE)ROYAL
   To a cup of tea or coffee add an ounce of Applejack and
stir. Sweeten to taste, if you wish.

    There are many other uses of Applejack which you will
find tasty and excellent. These hints will serve you in con
cocting mixtures of your own. It is only because of the grow
ing quality of modern Applejack that a separate chapter has
been devoted to its possibilities. The host or hostess willfind
it an agreeable change from other drinks and may mystify
guests by letting them guess what the main ingredient is.
Applejack Specials                                       127

   In giving mixed drink ingredients throughout this book,
I have, of course, provided he-man strength to each concoc
tion, but, as I have remarked previously, one may reduce the
alcoholic content at will and merely observe the proportions.
For instance, a small Manhattan can be mixed with one ounce
of Rye and one ounce of Vermouth, a smaller dash of Angos
tura Bitters and a bit less of "gum." Thus, you may make a
cocktail any size or strength desired, and the same obtains
with all the drinks in this volume.
                           Chapter XII

    Red Wines—How and When to
           Serve Them
   For a general rule, and with very few exceptions, red wines
should be served only with red meats, game, soups (and then
only certain types), roasts, turtle, terrapin, duck, steaks,
chops and turkey, which is admitted to this brief summary
because of its dark meat. Light red wines also go well with
pheasant, pigeon, veal cutlets, hver, ragouts, grouse, part
ridge, nuts and cheese.
   The sweet types of wines also may be served with the
demi-tasse and after dinner, unless one prefers Champagne or
Sparkling Bxirgimdy after dinner instead of the sweet wines.
But if you serve sweet wines with the demi-tasse, do not com
mit the tmpardonable error of also serving a cordial. It must
be either, not both.
    Never serve red wines with hors d'oeuvres, fish, oysters,
clams, salads of any kind and rarely with desserts, unless of
the sweet type. Nor are they suited to go with lobster,
crabs, eggs, cold smoked ham, shrimps, sweetbreads, pate de
foies gras, truffles or pork, except that in the last three items
red Burgundy might be used.
   Another point to remember: Never serve a sweet red wine,
or sweet white wine, either, with any foodstuffs containing or
served with acid, vinegar, cream sauce, salt, mustard, or
catsup; foods with fishy or peppery content; or with green
vegetables of any kind. These types of food really should not
be accompanied by any kind of wine, although some folks do
insist upon using "dry" or tart wines, preferably the sparkling
types. Best not, lest you spoil effect of wine and food both.
   As a general rule you should use a large tuhp shaped wine
glass for the light red wines and serve them at room tempera
ture, except for red Bvugundy, which should be shghtly
cooler.
   The red Bordeaux, commonly called Claret, should be
brought into the room several hours before the meal to assiue
                               128
Red Wines                                                  IM
its temperature to be exactly at "room" height. But never
try to warm wines at radiators,in warm water, or near any
artificial heating apparatus.
    Port, Sherry, the various Rhone reds from the French
river district, the Burgundian reds; Zinfandel, Benedictine,
Chianti, Grignolino and the other red Itafian wines, should
be at room temperature; as also the red Califomian wines,
which, by the way, hke the red wines from New York, New
Jersey and Ohio, are becoming more and more acceptable as
substitutes for the imported wines and are greatly improved
over the products of the pre-Prohibition period, when they
seemed to lack the graciousness of foreign productions.
   The sweeter types should be served in tulip or spheroid
glasses much smaller than those used for the "dry" types of
red wines, and this applies, also, to the sweet white wines, as
discussed in the next chapter.
   Red Sparkling Burgundy should be dulled but not made
too cold when served, lest its fine fruity flavor be lost. It
should be a shade above the temperature at which Cham
pagne is served.
   It should be served in a wide mouthed shallow, hollow-
stemmed glass slightly smaller than the usual Champagne
glass.
   In this, as in other chapters deahng with wines, I must
urge you never to shake the bottle, lest you stir up the lees or
dregs and impart a cloudy appearance or bitter dreg taste to
an otherwise delicious beverage.
   It might be well, if you pour at table, to place a damp
napkin around the neck of the bottle, to catch any drippings
after pouring. This will avert unsightly stains on your table
linen.
   Of course, one may avoid serving from the bottle at table
by previously pouring wine from bottle into decanter and
serving from the decanter. Or, ofttimes, glasses may be
filled away from the table and served from a tray,if one wishes
to be less formal.
   I cannot refrain, at this point,from adding most emphatic
ally to previous comment about serving wines at proper tem
peratures. Improper chilling or heating may rob a wine of
130                                       What Shall We Drink?
its delicate bouquet or nuances of flavor. Especially sensitive
are the red wines in this respect. To think of serving a
vintage red Bordeaux, for instance, in an ice pail, must im
mediately appeal to anyone as both incongruous and funda
mentally wrong. Red Bordeaux is a warm, generous wine
and to chUl it is Hke giving a cold handclasp to a warm friend.
    Contrarywise, one may imagine how absurd it would be to
serve a Rhine wine—say, a Chabhs, too—at room tempera-
time or warmer. First of all, the wine would lack that sparkle
which it seems to acquire when chilled; second, it would taste
as flat and insipid as stale beer. And who likes stale beer?
    Again,red wines should not be made too warm,either, lest
their flavor pall on the taste as much as stale beer might.
   I have noticed the growing popularity of using wine
baskets in the service of red wines, and beheve them practical
and helpful, particularly to novices in the handling of wine
bottles. The bottles rest on an inclined plane which tends to
keep the lees or dregs toward the bottom and these are not so
likely to be disturbed as when one pours from the neck and
restores a bottle to standing position.
   In the main, I have mentioned French, Rhine, American
and a few Itahan wines. But one must not forget the rich
wines from Spain or the other wonderful beverages which
come from the vineyards of Portugal, Austria and Hungary.
   Usually, red Bordeaux, Hke Sauterne and Graves wines,
demands large glasses of goblet type. In fact, one almost may
gauge the size of a glass according to the generous qualities of
the wines, whether red or white.
    So also, with Chianti—not the so-called "Red Ink," sour
and lacking in refreshing bouquet, but the rich ruby red of
real Chianti, which, while dry, is not sour, and which also has
a most delightful aroma.
    Speaking of sourness in wines reminds me to warn you that
if a wine—red or white—tastes sour, instead of just "dry,"
pour it into a sink and don't drink it. No good wine is sour.
One might as weU drink vinegar as to imbibe a sour wine. It
no longer is wine, but acetic acid, and can ruin one's stomach,
digestion and temper, to say nothing of possibly undermining
of one's health.
Red Wines                                                  131
    Chianti, of course, is the most popularly known of the
Italian wines, but there also are the red and white Marsala
wines, the wines of sunny Capri,immortahzed by Lord Byron
when he spoke of Lacrjona Christi as "the drink of the gods,
the pride of Italy"; the wines from the slopes of Asti—rich,
full-bodied, rare in bouquet and a dehght to the epicurean
taste; vintages of Moscato, Frascati and Orvieto; or nectars
from Piedmont, Tuscany and the Umbrian hills.
   One's mouth waters at remembrance—if one has been to
Italy—of the Roman and Neapolitan beverages, warm wines,
romantic and historic. One must pay due reverence to them
or be callous, indeed, to merit.
   And just as in the case of the rales given for the French
and other wines, adapt them to these noble products of the
land of the Caesars and her modern Caesar, Mussolini.
   I could go on, with dehght, talking about Barolo Barbera,
Santa Maddalena, Corvo di Casteldaccia, Valpohcella and
ValteUina, among the red wines of old Italy, and the famous
sparkhng Spumanti of Capri,the Orvieto and Soave that rank
with the white Frascati of dehcious memory, but in a general
survey of the entire field of drinking, one must not linger too
long at any one place lest the comprehensiveness sought be
not attained.
   Nor must I neglect that land of the Alexandrian empire—
Greece, the ancient—whose vines inspired Homer before the
Roman Empire ever was dreamed of or a Caesar crowned.
   It would not surprise me also to find in the near future the
wines of the South Americas coming into the United States,
especially the rich ruby vintages of the Andean slopes. Now
that we have effected more amicable relations with our Latin-
American neighbors, this really is to be desired. I have
tasted some of these beverages and found them delightful.
The supremacy of France in wines is not yet lost, but she
must look to her laurels among some of the rivals for favor I
have mentioned.
    Yet,in most cases, whether the wines travel long journeys
from Madeira, Morocco, Algeria, Malaga,the Canary Islands,
or even from the "Cape" district of South Africa, the general
rule remains the same:that the still red wines must(with only
132                                     What Shall We Drink?
the rare exceptions noted) be served at room temperatures for
the fullest enjoyment of their bouquet and enticing flavors.
    The sparkhng red wines, like their stiU dry white or spark
ling white brothers, conversely must be chilled exactly as
anything else effervescent must be chilled to be palatable—
for instance, beer, ginger ale, vichy, seltzer or carbonated
water. If you like vichy approximately lukewarm—faugh!—
drink your champagne that way, too. Your taste must be
abnormal and you should consult a physician.
   Do not be dismayed when you read aU the trade names of
the various vintages—Chateau This and Chateau That,
Saint This and Saint That. Be guided in your selection by
the advice of a reliable dealer. Don't wince too much at price
for if the beverage be royal it cannot be cheap, that is, if you
seek the imported brands.
   If your purse is not so bulging as in more prosperous years,
turn toward the California wines and you will not be disap
pointed, whether they be red or white, sparkling or still, dry
or sweet. Or choose an Ohio, New York or New Jersey wine.
    Red wines, at their best, should be from eight to twelve
years old—but who expects to get them at low prices? It is
impossible. One may buy with some certainty of obtaining
really aged and noble wines only by patronizing the highest
class and, consequently, the most expensive establishments.
Otherwise one is likely to buy palmed off stuff that, while
palatable, might have no virtues comparable with a one, two
or three year old American wine.
    I have heard it charged, although I cannot prove it, that
many French wineries are importing American vintages to
mix with their native non-vintage wines and then are export
ing them again to America to be sold as Chateau This and
Chateau That. WeU,if this be true, it wouldn't be surprising
that such skillful vintners as the French have learned that our
grapes have a richer flavor, flner bouquet and more splendid
"body" than any grown in Medoc, Burgundy, Bordeaux, the
Gironde district, the Rhone, or even in Anjou, Touraine and
the Loire country.
   It is, rather, to their credit and our own discredit that our
wines return to us as imports from France, Our grapes are,
Red Wines
indeed, like prophets in our own country—appreciated more
abroad than at home ... vmless they bear a foreign title and
some romantic Chateau name. They need better press
agents!
   Yes, the French are as subtle as their wines, past masters
in the art that A1 Smith calls "baloney"—and I say this
without discrediting their talents in trading. They're as
canny as the Prohibition-day Scotch, who bought oodles of
American bootleg and whose agents sold it as "just off the
ship" to guileless American drinkers, without its ever having
touched Scottish soil.
   I have emphasized this situation purposely so that I
might close this chapter with a warning that one must be
much more careful in the buying of red wines than in pur
chasing white wines, although in buying any liquors of any
type care should always be one's watchword.
                          Chapter XII

   White Wines—How and When to
                  Serve Them
    White wines, different from red wines, virtually suit
themselves to mostfoods which are taboo to their ruby colored
relatives.
    The "dry" types may be served,for instance, with oysters,
clams, lobster, shell fish of all kiuds, fish (broiled, boiled or
fried), eggs, white meats, cold cuts, shrimps, pate de foie gras,
lobster, chicken, sweetbreads, and, sometimes, with the
hors d'oeuvres as appetizers before meals. Personally, I prefer
not to drink any wines with the hors d'oeuvres. Beer or ale,
plebeian though it may sound,is far preferable, and,in fact,
both are assmning a real social status.
    Tastes differ as to the appetizer, or aperitif. Some folks
hke a cocktail, others a Sherry and others, Uke my own hum
ble self, beer or ale. The Sherry drinkers deem cocktail
drinking before meals horrible; the cocktail drinker scoffs at
the Sherry aperitif; the beer or ale drinker grins amiably and
finds his appetite and digestion keener and better. Of course,
to observe the niceties, I'U drink whatever the hostess pro
vides for the appetizer, but the wise hostess usually provides
cocktails. Sherry and beer and ale, letting each guest select as
he or she wiU.
   But here I am, straying from my subject of the white
wines. It is one of the few rules you need to know,that white
wines should never be permitted to usurp the functions of the
red wines. This is quite contrary to the rules of the red wines,
as I have pointed out in the previous chapter, for wines of the
Claret type and red Burgundy and sparkling reds can invade
the white wine domains.
   White wines may be served with turkey, because of its
white meat, just as red wine is adaptable, too, because of the
dark turkey meat. White wines also fit in with vegetables or
vegetable meals, cheese dishes, such as souffles, rarebits
(rabbits), stuffed celery, all kinds of sandwiches except those
                              134
White Wines
with red meats, tripe, and most canapes. It may accompany
spaghetti dishes, particularly those garnished with cheese,
and it goes well with bouillabaise, fruits, ices, pastries, pud
dings, crepes and sauced dishes.
   Of course, as in the case of the red wines, one must use a
bit of discrimination and not serve sweet white wines untU
dessert time, when heavy white Bordeaux or the beautiful,
clear and almost sparkling amber Anjou wines are acceptable;
or, as in the case of the sweet reds,for imbibing after the meal
is finished and a social hour is to be spent over the wine cups.
   Bordeaux, by the way,should be iced (not ice in the liquid
but apphed externally.) The Anjou wines should be at cellar
temperature and never should be iced.
   On the contrary, the white wines of Alsatia, Germany,
France, Italy and Spaio (and those of America, too) usually
should be served cold, many of them iced. The long-necked
Rhine wine bottles, for instance, almost suggest of themselves
the service of them in pails of ice. Champagne and Sparkling
Burgundy would be insipid and flat to the taste if not iced and
served very cold. So also with light white Bordeaux.
    White Burgundies, ChabUs, Riesling, Hock and Moselle
are best at, say, 50 degrees, and the Sauternes at about 45
degrees. Sweet white wines should be colder the sweeter they
are, which is almost the exact contrary of the red wine tem
peratures.
    One becoming newly acquainted with wines, may wonder
at the term "white" wine when the wine actually might be
amber, golden, yeUow, pale saffron or crystal clear.
   For instance, Tokay,the sweet output of Hungarian vine
yards, is a rich amber color; fight white Bordeaux is a pale
amber and heavy white Bordeaux is a rich, gold-tinted shade;
Champagnes vary in shades from almost crystal clearness to
deep amber; Angelica wine, from the sun-kissed vines of
southern California, is lightly tinged with gold, owing to
brandy fortifying, and it ranges into deeper shades; Muscatel,
like Angelica, is very rich and sweet, and is suitable for sub
stituting for a cordial or for service with any sweet condi
ments; the Sauternes of France run from dry to sweet and
vary in color from straw to golden honey tints, as do the
136                                    What Shall We Drink?
California products by that name; Chablis is quite dry and of
light gold hue, whether it be the French or the Californian
variety; Hock (another name for a species of Rhine wine) is
smoothly tart and of a very faint amber-green color, which
might also fairly weU describe Rhine wines as commonly
known, although they also come straw-colored, light golden
or pale yellow, into which category one also might place that
other noted German wine, Rieshng; Moselle is a pale, scented
wine, named from the Moselle river district whence it comes;
Catawba is light and clear, ranging sometimes from a very
pale and almost unnoticeable yellow to a shghtly deeper tone.
   These wines form the major types, along with the red, of
wines most generally used. A wine buyer might be confused
by the many brand names given them, but as this book is not
an advertising medium for the many brands, they will not be
mentioned.
   And now, for just a word more of explanation to help
clarify any novice's mind on what the words "dry" and
"sweet" and "sparkling" mean in wine lore:
   "Dry" wines are those brought to perfection through
natural fermentation, without the addition of anything to
them. The natural sugars of the grapes or fruits used in
making them are all fermented into natural alcoholic content,
ranging from 6.65 to 14 per cent. They also are called "light"
wines, and are particularly adapted for table use with food.
    "Sweet" wines usually are halted in the process of natural
fermentation by the addition of brandy. This process retains
unconverted sugar in the wines, leaving them sweet to the
taste, but the alcoholic content ranges from the 13.50 per cent
of Burgundy to the 42 per cent of Benedictine.
    "Sparkling" wines are effervescent but "dry," with
alcohoUc content ranging from 10 to the 12.50 per cent of
Champagne. They are the product of two fermentations, the
second one following the first bottling. This causes the de
velopment of carbonic acid which, when the bottle is opened,
seeks to escape and forms the delightful bubble in the glass
as it rises from imprisonment to freedom in the air. Cham
pagne of good quality should emit bubbles for a period up to
three-quarters of an hour.
White Wines                                               ^
   The principal sparkling wines are Burgundy, Champagne
and Mousseaux, which latter at its best contains only lo per
cent of alcohol, Burgundy 13.50 and Champagne 12.50.
    May I also point out a number of rules which have come
down through centuries of wine usage by connoisseurs?
    Never serve a sweet wine, red or white, before a dry wine.
    Never serve a heavy red wine before a light, tart wine.
    Never serve more than one glass of wine to each course,
and when it is finished with the course, serve the next wine in
the order outUned in Chapter XIV. This averts the pos
sibility of mixing wines, which is atrocious.
    Avoid excess at all times. Never call for a second helping
of wine for any course, if you are a guest. As host or hostess,
never proffer a second glass to any course.
    Eat and drink leisurely, so that every morsel and drop is
enjoyed and appetite the better satisfied, with better diges
tion assured thereby.
    Never grasp a wine glass by the bowl, but always by the
stem. It is essential to the enjoyment of wine that it be
drunk gracefully, not as a boor might drink it.
    Avoid spilling on tablecloth. There should be no excuse
for this if the glass is only half-filled, as social etiquette
demands.
   If wine is poured at table, the host should always pour
into his own glass first a small amount, to make sure no parts
of broken cork or dregs near the bottle mouth get into a
guest's glass. After aU guests are served, the host or hostess
doing the pouring fills his or her glass—a fresh one if anything
 annoying first came from the bottle.
    These rules have been mentioned before but are repeated
 and should be earnestly studied and remembered.
    Wines have nutrimental value, whether made of grapes,
 apples, pears, dates, figs, pineapples, cherries, rhubarb or
 other fruits, berries or vegetables.
    Natnre gives them from five to twelve per cent alcohol by
 weight through natural fermentation.
    Any other wines, with higher alcoholic content, have been
 "reinforced" or "fortified" by the addition of brandy, alcohol
 or whisky, or other ardent spirits, as in the preparation of
138                                    What Shall We Drink?
Port, Sherry, Catawba and other similar foreign and domestic
wines.
   Brandy, Whisky, gin and other ardent spirits have no
nutritive value except for the alcohol they possess. This
alcohol is of such high percentage, however, that unless di
luted with some other beverage, its highly concentrated form,
except in dlness, is deleterious, rather than helpful, to the
human system. In other words, its nutrimental value, in its
undiluted form,is submerged in its destructive attacks on the
tender tissues and membranes.
   Cordials (or Hqueurs) are less harmful because they con
tain sugars and herb extract mixtures in addition to their
alcohoHc content, which varies from 25 to 45 per cent by
volume.
   It might be well to explain these two terms, so often used:
Alcohol by volume and alcohol by weight.
    Alcohol by weight is self explanatory. It represents the
total amount of 95 per cent pure alcohol which can be ex
tracted by distillation from certain weighed quantities of a
hquid.
   Alcohol by volume represents all the 95 per cent pure
alcohol which can be distilled from an unweighed, mnfis
quantity, selected at random from bulk.
   Given alcohol by weight, a government inspector, for
instance, can find the alcohol by volume simply by multiply
ing by the decimal 1.25.
   Given alcohol by volume, he can ascertain alcohol by
weight simply by multiplying by the decimal .80.
   Both methods are resorted to for taxing purposes, for
tariff assessment and, by the maker, to know for a certainty
that the alcohofic content of his product is exactly what the
beverage requires.
   For those who might have reason to settle arguments as
to what should be the alcoholic content of beverages, I am
appending a table showing estimates compiled by experts, but
giving only the alcohol by volume.
   If you wish to find the alcohol by weight, merely multiply
the percentages by the decimal .80.
White Wines
    Usually,the average man or woman figures only in volmne
as, for instance, a pint of gin, a quart of brandy. He does not
think of them in terms of oimces per pint or quart or gallon.
I assume, therefore, that we can leave the weight percentages
to be figured out by those who need to know it for technical or
taxation reasons. This is a drinkers' book, not a technical
treatise.
      Just one illustration might suffice to show how easily the
difference is ascertained. Let us take the famous 3.2 per cent
by weight beer permitted just before repeal, as an example.
To find the alcohol by volume merely multiply by the decimal
1.25 and you get four per cent. Suppose, however, you had
been given the 4 per cent volume figure. To find the alcohol
by weight you simply would multiply by the decimal .80 and
get 3.2 per cent.
      The appended table does not show every wine or other
liquor, nor does it mention specific brands or "chateau"
varieties, of which there are myriads. From those cited, how
ever, one may estimate with fair accmacy the alcohohc con
tent of similar types. Here's the table.
                            Beverage               Per cent
                                                  By Volume
Absinthe                                          SS-oo
Ale                                                6.25 to 9.6
Beer (pre-repeal type)                             4-oo
Beer (light German type)                           4-38
Beer (lager)                                       S-oo
Benedictine                                       42.00
Bordeaux Wine (red or white)                      11.5°
Brandy                                            40.00 to 43.8
Burgundy                                          10.00 to 11.2
California wines, dry (average)                   11.30
California wines, sweet (average)                 19.00
Catawba                                            9-00 to 9.50
Champagne                                         12.50 to 14.8
Chartreuse                                        32.00 to 35.0
Chianti                                           12.50
Cider (barreled)                                   3.50 to 5.6
Cider (bottled)                                    6.00
Claret                                             9-oo to ii.i
140                                       What Shall We Drink?

Cognac                                              4S.OO
Cointreau (or Quantreau, as some call it)           40.00
Gin                                                 3S.OO to 50
Madeira                                             19.00 to 19.4
Marsala                                             19. to 21.i
Moselle                                              6.65 to 9.4
Mousseaux (sparkling)                               10.00
Muscatel                                            12.50
Port Wine                                           19. to 23.2
Porter                                               6.25 to 7
Rhine Wine                                           9.50 to 13
Rum                                                 SS-oo to 77.
Sherry                                              12.4 to 19.7
Stout                                                6.5 to 7.9
Tokay                                                9.00 to 9.9
Tonic wine medicines                                16.00
Whisky (ordinary)                                  43.00
*Whisky (100 proof)                                50.00

(*The term "proof spirit" is the standard for judging all mixtures
of alcohol and water, based on 50 per cent of alcohol and 50 per
cent of water, which is termed, then, 100 proof. Proof spirit
has a specific gravity of 0.933. If if is "above proof" it denotes
an excess of alcohol beyond 50 per cent; "under proof," con
versely, denotes less than the 50% standard strength for proof
spirit. Whiskies under proof are likely to be doctored with too
much water or to contain fusel oil and other deleterious matter.)




                                                               dj
                         Chapter XIV

  Foods to Serve With Liquors and
                          Wines
   Probably the best way to illustrate what foods should be
served with liquors and wines is to cite what two of the fore
most authorities in America called "the perfect formal meal."
By giving course by course as each gave them to me, you may
adjust yourself in course serving, from hors d'oeuvres to the
final service of the cordial with desserts, arranging the wines
to go with your own soups, entrees, pieces-de-resistance and
so on.
   Let us start with the first expert's idea of the "perfect
dinner."
   He is one of those who beheves the cocktail should open
the gastronomic feast, starting with either a dry Martini or a
Manhattan.
   With the oysters or clams on the half shell or in cocktail
form, he prefers to serve no wines, holding that the wine as
well as the food would be unenjoyable.
   With soup he suggests either Port, Sherry or Madeira, but
never more than one glass to each course throughout the meal
and then served with about half an inch of the glass unfilled so
that the diner can "roll" the glass a bit to have the contents
glaze the inside of the glass and so permit of more "bouquet"
as the alcoholic evaporation is expedited.
   Next, with the fish course, or terrapin, he suggests either
Claret, Still Burgundy, Sauterne, Rhine Wine or MoseUe,the
last three iced.
   With the piece de resistance, or meat course, whatever the
hostess chooses to serve, the accompanying wine should be
either Sparkling Burgundy or Champagne, served from pails
of cracked ice. He likes to hear the popping of the corks at
this course—and so do I—and so will you!
    With the desserts he suggests Heavy White Bordeaux,
Chateau Yquem (rarest of all French vintages) or White
Vouvray Anjou wine, and, after the desserts and with the
                              141
142                                     What Shall We Drinks
demi-tasse, any cordial, such as cognac, Creme de Menthe,
Eau de Vie de Danzig, Creme de Cocoa, Pousse de Cafe,
Green or Yellow Chartreuse, Benedictine, and,on very special
occasions, the genuine Napoleon Brandy, almost priceless.
    To serve and drink the Napoleon Brandy, by the way,is a
test of the host's, hostess's and diner's table sophistication.
    A pony of Napoleon Brandy is served to the guest along
with a very large goblet, long stemmed. Into this the pony
is poured and the liquid "rolled" so that it touches almost all
the inside of the glass and, of course, drains to the bottom
again, leaving a sort of glaze on the glass sides. This is to
enhance the "bouquet" or aroma of the brandy which is en
hanced still further by warming the sides of the glass with
the palms.
   One inhales this "bouquet" with epicurean delight and
takes tiny sips while munching on toasted saltines spread with
mixed Roquefort and cream cheese.
   I tried this kind of meal and my mouth's watering as I
write.
   Now for the other epicure's "perfect dinner." Let me
warn you in advance that it is also an expensive one!
    First, instead of cocktails as an aperitif or appetizer, he
suggests an Amontillado Sherry of 1884 vintage! Try to get
it for anything but gold! It's the fibnest vintage out of Spain,
with a superb "bouquet" that would tickle the appetite of the
most jaded king stiU on his throne.
   With soup, he suggests no wine, unless the soup be a clear
green turtle soup, in which case he advises continuing that
priceless Amontillado Sherry.
    For the fish course, Chabfis, which, of course, is an excel
lent White Burgundy; or Riesling, the white wine from the
French Rhine section. If the guest prefers Sauteme,let it be
Sauterne. But these wines, he holds, should be served at
least 20 degrees below room temperature.
    With the entree, (he likes a Poulet Burgoyne, which is
nothing less than a chicken cooked in wine sauce) he suggests
serving some fine Bordeaux red wine of low alcoholic content,
delicate flavor and velvety "bouquet," preferably the vint
ages of 1923, 1927 or 1929.
Foods io Serve With Wines and Liquors                    ^
   With the roast (he likes a Chateaubriand, or steak with
sauce Bemaise) he would serve a Burgundy (sparkling, of
course), and in this case I will let him add that it be either
Pommard, Bon Veaune or Chambertin of the vintage of
1926. (I still smack my hps over tasting all three!)
   When I suggested that many Americans like Champagne
at this stage, he almost shuddered. "They're in error!" he
expostulated. "They think Champagne should be served
throughout a meal! Nonsense!"
    So we went on to the salads. Absolutely no wane, he
insisted, should be served with salads of any kind.
   With the dessert, he suggests a sweet Champagne, and
with the demi-tasse of coffee the same incomparable Napoleon
Brandy, served in the same manner the other expert advised.
   "Use a 14-ounce glass," he warned. "They're huge, but
Napoleon Brandy requires its proper admiration, inhaling
and dehcate sipping from the big glass. And never serve more
than an ounce and a half of it! It's reaUy too priceless!"
   For the average American dinner, he suggested a Martini
or Manhattan appetizer (but never an old-fashioned cock
tail); then, with the courses, white wines before red wines.
   "If Champagne is served after the red wine, never serve
any white wines other than the Champagne thereafter," he
warned.
   So you now have a good perspective upon the foods to
serve with the various wines in covu-se dinners, and you can
easUy make up your menus by observing the types of foods to
serve with each course as suggested in the previous chapters
on red and white wines, and when and how to serve them.
    For the types of glasses to use with various wines and
liquors, let me refer you to Chapter XIX, in which I at
tempt to tell you "Something of Liquor Glassware."
    To get away from "de rigeur" types of dinners,I asked the
owner of a high class restaurant what he might serve with the
various wines. Here's his list:
   With oysters or clams, serve Sauterne, Hock, Moselle or
white Burgundy. (He should worry about any ill effects!)
   With soups, Sherry or Madeira.
   With fish, any white wine, such as Rhine or MoseUe.
144                                      What Shall We Drink?

   With roast game, Port or Red Burgundy.
   With turtle or terrapin, Sherry or Madeira.
   With roast meats, turkey, chicken or duck, sparkling
wines, or Sherry or Red Burgundy.
   With cold meats. Claret, Sauterne, Catawba or Hock.
   With salads (horror of horrors!). Claret or Champagne!
   With desserts, Spumonti or Mousseaux, Chablis, Catawba
and any sparkling wine.
   With demi-tasse, any cordial.
   All that I can say is this: A restaurateur generally is
looking for business more than a diner's health, and if you
follow the advice of any but the experts your digestion is
likely to suffer. Let conscience and common sense be your
guide. Seriously, I would strongly advise against using any
wines with shellfish or salads, above all things. And if you do
use wine with fish dishes, be sure that it is of the very lowest
alcoholic content, as alcohol seems to have a direct affinity for
all sea food and attacks it so that it hardens, if not before
being swallowed, at least after it reaches your stomach.
You'll need bicarbonate of soda to relieve distress if you drink
other than weak alcoholic wine directly with sea food. Be
warned!
a
                             Chapter XV

      Care of Wines and How to Drink
                               Them
       Many good wines have been spoiled because of careless
    ness or ignorance in handling them and caring for them until
    they are used.
       A few general rules, if observed, whl prevent many a
    disappointment.
       Sparkhng wines should be kept in a very cool place, prefer
    ably a wine ceUar away from furnace heat in winter and from
    the sun's heat in Summer. Once a bottle of dry or sparkhng
    wine is opened for drinking, do not recork it to save the
    balance. It should be consumed lest it go flat and,often,sour.
       White wines also should be kept cool, say, at about a
    temperature of between 50 and 60 degrees.
       Red wines do not require such coolness, but it were well
    not to let them remain where the temperature exceeds 70
    degrees.
       Sweet wines resist souring more than the dryer types and
    one need not be so extra-careful to prevent formation of
    acetic acid.
       In storing bottles, because of the likelihood that some may
    "blow" their corks or burst from what is called a second
    fermentation, it were best to lay them on their sides in rows
    and cover with sawdust. On the first row place flat boards or
    strips, then lay the next row, and do likewise for the third,
    fourth and succeeding rows. This keeps the corks wet and
    prevents air from entering through dry, porous corks.
        By the same process of reasoning, this system permits
    excess gases to escape from the corks without contact with the
    air, which is repelled by the pressure of the gases in the
    bottles.                                               11   1
        Many folks who live in rural districts and have wells, place
    their wines down in the well water to keep them cool during
    the summer.
                                  145
146                                     What Shall We Drink?
   These are simple rules and virtually the main ones for
assuring best results. There is no need to go into an exhaus
tive dissertation on the subject. Do what is here set down
and let the experts go into pompous discussions which, when
analyzed, all result in the same advice.
    Again, as a general rule in serving, all sparkling wines
must be very cold to be most enjoyable. Incidentally,keeping
the bottles cold in pails of cracked ice prevents the efferves
cent gases from escaping as quickly when released from the
bottle as they would when warmer. The sparkling bubbles of
Champagne, Sparkling Burgundy, etc., only start when the
warmth of a room contacts the hquor and starts the release of
the enchained gases, kept quiet and compact by the cold.
    The white still wines also should be chilled, not because of
effervescence, but because they taste better.
    And as a broad general rule, the red wines should be served
at room temperatures.
   As to drinking wines, no connoisseur or bon vivant drinks
wine! He sips it! What has taken such pains to produce
should not be swallowed in huge mouthfuls, but should be
treated with the graciousness it deserves.
   As a general rule, too, the thinner the glass the better
seems the taste of the wine, just as beer tastes best when
served in iced mugs or steins with covers instead of in glasses.
   When drinking wines, do not grasp the bowl of the glass,
but raise it gracefully by the stem. Admire the color of the
wine, inhale its bouquet and then take a tiny sip. Then
gracefully return to the table and, when you lift it again,
lend the same grace to your drinking.
   Nothing is more noticeable than an awkward drinking
method. Wine was made for gracious use, for grace in hand
ling at the table, and for enhancing the real art of dining.
By observing these broad general rules, you need never fear
a faux pas that wiU bring you vexation or tears later on.
    One more high point, not to be forgotten under any cir
cumstances:
   If you are doing the pouring from bottle into glasses at
table NEVER POUR YOUR GUEST'S GLASS FIRST!
Care of Wines and How to Drink Them                          147
   ALWAYS POUR OUT, NOT THE FULL GLASS,BUT
A SMALL PORTION INTO YOUR OWN GLASS FIRST.
   You may wonder at this, after the forgetfulness of nearly
fourteen years of Prohibition, but the reason is this: When
the first portion of wine is poured from the bottle, it is likely
to bring with it a small section of the cork or some sediment.
This never should be permitted to get into a guest's glass.
Hence the pouring into your OWN GLASS FIRST.
    After aU guests have been served from the bottle, remove
the bit of cork from your own with a spoon, and fill your
glass. If sediment has entered the glass, use a fresh one and
remove the first from the table.
                         Chapter XVI

   The Beer Family—Hozv to Make
     Your Own Home Supply and
                 When to Drink It
   Beer, one of the most ancient of all brews and unquestion
ably the most wholesome and refreshing of all alcoholic
beverages, is also one of the most ubiquitous, if I may use
that word in the sense that beer accommodates itself to
virtually any food, at any time of day, at any meal, and in
doors or outdoors.
   Like champagne, it tends to promote conviviality; but,
unlike the champagne drinker, the beer drinker is not so
quickly inebriated—and need not become so, unless he over-
imbibes, which is true of any liquor. But few ever have the
capacity to over-indulge in beer, and so it is really one of the
most temperate of beverages, outside of water, and not even
excluding the caffeine containing coffees or teas containing
acids which we daily absorb without a thought of their
possible injurious effects upon our systems.
   To make beer at home is a rather "smelly" job and I
would not recommend it to one who lives in an apartment
house. This is a beverage which requires, almost, the owner
ship of your own home or, at least, residence in a home
without other families that might be annoyed.
   But as you probably might like to try some recipes—I'll
give only a few—I shall not disappoint you in that aspiration.
   Here is a family recipe which has done noble service for
our family over a period of more than a century and, if
followed to the letter, you will never have a sorry brew:
   Ingredients necessary:
       5 tablespoons of large barley          4 ounces of hops
       1 quart of dark corn syrup (if white syrup is used add
           2 tablespoons of burnt sugar)       }4 cake of yeast.
   Apparatus necessary:
      2 dozen beer bottles           5 gallon stone crock
                               148
w-

     The Beer Family                                             149
        Process:
        Put five tablespoons of large barley into two gallons of
     water and bring to a boil, then add two and a hah to four
     ounces of hops tied in a bag, and keep boiling. Stir in two
     and a half pounds of dark com syrup and continue boiling
     for one hour, adding hot water in the meantime to make
     two gallons.
        Take off stove and when lukewarm, but not until then,
     add a half cake of yeast which has first been dissolved in
     lukewarm water. Mix the brew thoroughly and straiu
     through flannel cloth into stone crock. Stand crock in a cool
     dark place in cellar or cool closet and let ferment for about
     three days, or until fermentation ceases. Then skim off top
     and siphon the liquid carefully into bottles, being careful
     not to disturb sediment in crock while drawing off hquid.
     Cork bottles as you fill them, leaving air space of two to
     three inches from bottom part of cork in necks. Lay bottles
     on sides in cool dark place for not less than seven days. You
     then may drink it, but longer aging makes it better as a
     beverage. To make more, if you wish, just multiply the
     ingredients. But be careful when putting into crock that you
     allow enough room for the fermentation process, which swells
     the brew; otherwise it wfll rxm over the rim and make a
     sorry mess.
         Here's another nice beer to make in five-gallon lots:
         To five gallons of boiling water add seven ounces of
     ground ginger, an ounce of cream of tartar and five sliced
     lemons. Boil for two hours,let cool to lukewarm state, strain
     into eight-gallon stone crock and add eight pounds of brown
     sugar. Now in two ounces of 95% pure alcohol mix a quarter
     teaspoon of oil of cloves and the same amount of oil of
     cinnamon, which add to the mixtiue, along with one yeast
     cake which has been dissolved in lukewarm water. Let crock
     stand in cool dark place for about eighteen hours. Then
     skim and siphon off into another stone crock. Let stand to
     precipitate solids for another ten hours, then siphon off care
     fully so as not to disturb sediment, filling bottles and corking
     them at once. As this is a brew which packs a load of effer
     vescence, it might be well to tie each cork to the bottle neck
150                                      What Shall We Drink?
lest it be blown out and all your pains go for nothing. You
may drink this in about ten days, but more time makes it
riper and more palatable.
    And one more, with hops as an ingredient:
    Boil in six quarts of water five ounces of hops in bag,
letting mixture boil for five hours. Strain off, add a gallon of
hot water, two and a half ounces of ground ginger and a half
pound of burnt sugar or a pound can of dark corn syrup.
Boil for two and a half hours, strain off when lukewarm tato
stone crock and add a half cake of yeast first dissolved in
lukewarm water. Let it ferment for forty-eight hours, skim,
siphon off into new container, let stand for twelve hours to
clear, then siphon carefuUy into bottles, corking them tight
and tying corks to necks of bottles. This brew should be
always kept in dark cool place and bottles laid on sides.
   There are other types of beers, non-alcohoUc, which have
no place in this volume,such as root beer, lemon beer, spruce,
ginger and so forth.
   Save for the pride of producing a nice home-made beer,
there is no inducement to be your own brewer. Better, by
far, to leave the task to the brewmasters or refiable brewers.
My recipes are for simple drink-making. To go into aU the
intricacies of the American, German, Austrian, French,
English, Czechoslovakian and other foreign makes, in addi
tion to the Near Eastern and Far Eastern brews, would be
to write a volume of a thousand pages, without much profit
to the reader, anyway.
    To be most palatable, beer should be imbibed when cold.
This apphes to the dark as well as to the fight beers. Usually
stowed in ice boxes, they should be opened when brought to
the table. The host, hostess or guest may do the opening,
individually. Yet, there is no objection, either, to the open
ing of the bottles away from the table after guests are seated
and ready to be served.
    Because of beer's great effervescence and creamy "head"
or bead, it is de rigeur to provide coasters for glass and bottle
for each guest. Beer may be served in goblets, tall slender
Pilsner glasses, shells (large or small), pewter or crockery
mugs, or steins, either lidded or unfidded, and in handled
The Beer Family
thick glasses. The Udded stein is preferable, for after a
draught of beer, the closing of the hd helps retain the cold
ness of the beer and preserve its "head."
   Formality requires the use of glasses—but I've never yet
found the man who wouldn't prefer to forget formality for
comfort.
    However, we must bow to traditions and niceties, though
we mere men may sigh over them sometimes when we might
like to be "just boys" and eat our goldarned peas off our
knives, if we wished!
    Colored glasses or gaily-striped crystal glasses may be
used, by the way, for decorative effect or to follow out a
color scheme at i^ormal httle luncheons or for the aperitif or
appetizer before more formal dinners, at supper, for after-
the-theatre snack or at any time,for that matter, and still be
quite correct. Colored glasses add gay notes to a little
picnic spread outdoors or at the bridge table. Beer does not
require the fine crystal glassware demanded for wine service.
    And, speakiog of bridge, when light refections usually are
served, may I suggest the use of side taborets for convenience
and thus save the bridge table top from possible spills? A
taboret at each elbow will accommodate the beer bottle, the
glass and a small plate with canapes,sandwiches, crackers and
cheese, or whatever you are serving.
    Beer, unlike wine,"goes" with any food and does not have
either its own taste spoiled or spoil the taste of the food. But
wine with certain foods is abominable, spoiling the taste of
both. For instance, wine with hors d'oeuvres should be almost
imthinkable unless one uses a white wine like Rhine or
Moselle, but even these ought not be served. Beer would be
far preferable. Imagine Port Wine,too, with pickles! Ugh-h!
   Beer and ale go,also, with the chafing dish and the various
rarebits (or rabbits, as you wish), the lobster dish or creamed
chicken or other creamed delicacy. Ale, too, fits with the
beers in almost every similar case, as also with cold cuts,
smoked or pickled fish, anchovies—I might go down the
whole list of edibles for luncheon, supper, dinner, and all fit
in nicely with beer.
152                                     What Shall We Drink?
   Buffet luncheons are quite popular, with a trayful of
tasty cold meats, tiny sandwiches, canapes, etc., to be either
passed around or set upon a table covered with one of those
bright decorative tablecloths of peasant design, letting the
guest select at wiU. In fact, the latter method is preferred, as
the passing of a large tray is awkward, to say the least, and
there always is more or less embarrassment for the guest
trying to decide what to select from the variety.
   This volume is not strictly a menu book. I might, how
ever, suggest a few nice hght luncheon accompaniments to
have with yonr beer, such as pumpernickel sandwiches of
various kinds, thinly cut and sliced into dainty lengths or
triangles; eggs in any form, scrambled, fried, boUed or
omeleted; fried fish, roe, crab meat cracker sandwiches,
stuffed baked tomatoes, salted or dried or smoked fish,
sardines, cold meat cuts, various salads, bacon sandwiches,
boned chicken. Chili con came, crackers and cheese, or other
similar dainty refections.
   "Between snacks" are delightful in the afternoon and I
suggest various canapes, relishes, crackers and cheese,
pretzels, or tiny sandwiches to munch with the beer.
    For the bridge game, afternoon or evening, it might be
enjoyable to serve a cheese platter, sandwiches, caviar,
stuffed celery, pigs in blankets, cheese in blankets, or cold
meat slices with crackers or thin bread.
   For a light supper of the informal type, you might serve
cold cuts, hot chicken, kidney stew, oysters (stewed or fried)
rarebits (or rabbits), lobster a la Newbrng, chicken a la King,
eggs in any style, omelets of various types, frankfurters,
curried dishes, any sea food, ragouts or Chili con carne.
    More formal dinners are discussed in Chapter XIV,
"Foods to Serve With Liquors and Wines," You will find
this chapter exceptionally informative and worth consulting,
both as to the serving of a "perfect meal" as gathered from
several experts and for suggested dishes to serve your guests.
   I cannot dismiss this chapter on beer (and ales) without
some reference to their nutritive qualities.
   Beers and ales contain phosphates, potash and other
mineral salts in addition to proteins, sugar and alcohol. These
The Beer Family                                           153
are easily absorbed by the human system and have definite
food value.
   The two fermented beverages also contain a modicum of
carbonic acid which causes the "bead" or "head" to rise as
the carbonic acid struggles to release itself from the fluids,
which consist in the main of water to a percentage ranging
from 8s to 92 per cent.
   Solid materials in beers and ales range from 4 to 8 per
cent and the alconol from 2 to 6 per cent, although in the
imported beers and ales this content sometimes varies up to
ten per cent.
                         Chapter XVn

            Some Cordial Recipes
   An entire volume could be written on liqueurs (liquors)
and cordials without even then exhausting the subject.
Within the wide compass of this volume it is impossible to go
into the vastly detailed subject, but I shall give you a few
recipes which I am sure you will find the more dehghtful for
having prepared them yourself. Others not given are so
intricate that it is best to buy them, already prepared and
bottled by responsible manufacturers.
             MAKING RASPBERRY CORDIAL
    Mix one pint of raspberry syrup (thick) with one pint of
French Brandy. If you let this stand in quart bottle for
about twelve hours it will be well blended. Some persons
like to add either a dash of cinnamon or powdered cloves, or
both, to give a spiced flavor. When you use these, however,
be careful to strain the mixture out of the bottle into another
container or into small cordial bottles or a cordial carafe, for
use when needed.

               MAKING CHERRY CORDIAL
   Mix one pint of Cherry syrup (thick) with three-quarters
pint of 90% pure alcohol, add a half pint of distiUed water,
drop into bottle two cloves and let stand overnight. Strain
off into fresh container, as in Raspberry Cordial recipe. The
small amount left over from your quart bottle may be used
at once or put into small cordial bottle.
                      ORGEAT SYRUP
   Unless you buy Orgeat Cordial, the process of making it
is so intricate and laborious that I cannot recommend home
attempts; nor is home-made Orgeat hkely to be successful.
But here's an Orgeat Syrup recipe which is made easily and
often can be used to advantage in flavoring drinks as well as
by using the cordial. (Cordials, incidentally, are all made
through intricate processes, and usually require stills, which
                              154
Cordial
are virtually forbidden by law except to licensed distillers.
I do not claim the recipes for cordials made at home can rival
the fine products you buy, but they are pleasant substitutes
and, when used with mixed drinks, can hardly be detected
from the bought hqueurs. As for using them straight, few
except connoisseurs and epicures will notice any difference).
But now to that Orgeat Sjrrup recipe I promised you:
  Pound together in a wooden bowl one-half ounce powdered
sugar, one-half ounce powdered sweet almonds, a pinch of
powdered bitter almonds, three tablespoons of gum arable,
and, when thoroughly mixed, add a half pint of water, hot
but not boiling. Let steep for one hour. Then strain off the
liquid flavor and filter to remove all powders. Now add
enough "gum" to make a quart and put in bottle for use right
away or to hold for use at any future time.
            MAKING PEPPERMINT CORDIAL
   Buy in your drugstore one pint of peppermint water and
pour into quart bottle. Add three-quarter pint of sweet gin
and a quarter pint of "gum." Let stand over night and filter
into new container for use when wanted.
                APRICOT CORDIAL DRINK
   Here's a delicious cordial drink easily made. Use a 12-
ounce glass, either with straight sides or in goblet shape.
Squeeze into glass the juice of a whole lime and two ounces of
Apricot Cordial. Stir and add a third of a glass of finely
shaved ice. Fill glass with vichy, seltzer or carbonated water,
stirring well. Top with sliced strawberries, raspberries, or
other fruits in season.
                    CURACAO CORDIAL
    Boil for five minutes a pint of "gum" in which you have
put the orange colored peel of two oranges, a quarter tea
spoon of powdered cinnamon and the juice of a half orange.
Take off fire and strain through muslin into a small pan.
Add enough 90% to 95% pure alcohol to make a quart, stir
thoroughly and again strain, then filter into a quart bottle.
Of course, you can obviate all this trouble by merely buying a
quart of Curacao, but if you must insist on home-made
Curacao, who's to stop you?
156                                     What Shall We Drink?
                   RUM SHRUB CORDIAL
    Mix a pint of fine rum with a half pint of "gum" and four
tablespoons of orange bitters (or a half pint bitter orange
juice). Put into pan and let it come to a slow simmer, but no
more. As soon as it starts to simmer turn off flame, remove
pan and strain fiquid through mushn into a quart bottle,
using a funnel. If there is a httle left, it can be used at once.
The bottled liquid will keep indefinitely, ready for use at
any time. If it clouds use mixture for cooking purposes, as
nothing is wrong with it. Try mixing again with a little less
heat, and the mixture may not cloud. Even if it is cloudy and
you don't mind it, it still can be used for drinking purposes,
especially in mixing drinks. However, you can clear it with
salts of tartar.
                    CARAWAY CORDIAL
   To one pint of caraway syrup, which can be bought, add
one pint of fiine brandy or 90% pure alcohol. Let stand for
one day, to blend thoroughly in quart bottle.
                     LEMON CORDIAL
   One pint of lemon syrup with one pint of 90% pure
alcohol should be put in quart bottle to blend for one day.
        HOW TO MAKE SOLFERINO CORDIAL
    It is quite simple to mix Solferino for use at any time.
Simply add two parts of "gum" or unflavored syrup to one
part of brandy, stir together thoroughly and it is ready for
you. It is really a sort of semi-cordial to go with the demi-
tasse. You can make as large or small quantity as you wish;
for instance, one pint of "gum" and a half pint of brandy;
two pints of "gum" and one pint of brandy, etc. Some folks
call this Swedish Punch.

                    ANISEED CORDIAL
   The simplest way to make Aniseed Cordial is to buy a
pint bottle of Anisette Syrup ,which is quite inexpensive and
non-alcoholic. Add to it a pint of 95% pure alcohol in a quart
bottle and let stand for one day to blend well. To make it at
home any other way is a laborious and bulky process, as you
may judge from this formula: Dissolve a quarter ounce of
Cordial                                                     ^
oil of aniseed in five pints of spirits of wine, add ten pints of
"gum," stirring thoroughly. If it clouds, clear with salts
of tartar. But—you have nearly four quarts, and it takes a
long while to get rid of a gaUon of cordial, don't you think so,
when no cordial served alone should exceed an ounce and a
half in one of those "httle-finger-wide" straight cordial
glasses or tiny Sherry glasses?
                   LEMONADE CORDIAL
   Into a taU glass filled to within an inch of the rim with
ordinary lemonade pour two ounces of any cordial you like
best. Stir and crown drink with your favorite fruits or berries
in season. Name the drink anything you please.

                CREAM RATAFIA CORDIAL
    Ratafia reaUy was originated as a cordial to be imbibed as
a sort of toast between signatories to a treaty, truce or some
other amicable international agreement, but it has been
given a place in the home during the course of the years. The
name itself reaUy means ratification. There are many types
of Ratafia, but the only one simple enough to make at home
is the Cream Ratafia, which I urge you to try. Here's a
RTna.11 portion to make for, say, a two-table bridge group.
Use a heavy bowl to mix. Pour into bowl one piot of heavy
cream, a half pint of "gum," one quarter pint of Sherry and
one quarter pint of Creme de Noyeau or Arrack. Whip into
a creamy mixture and serve in sherbet glasses with small
spoons. You can make other flavors by using other cordials
than Noyeau or Arrack, but these are most generally hked.
               MAKING VANILLA CORDIAL
   To one pint of "gum" add one pint of fine brandy in
which has been previously absorbed a half teaspoon of fine
vanilla essence. Let stand for a few days to blend thor
oughly before using.
                MAKING COFFEE CORDIAL
   Mix one pint of fine French Brandy with one pint of
Coffee Syrup previously prepared by mixing two ounces of
strong coffee in "gum." Let stand a few days before using.
158                                  What Shall We Drink?
           MIXING STRAWBERRY CORDIAL
   To one pint of thick clear strawberry syrup add one pint
of 90% pure alcohol or one pint of fine old French Brandy.
Let stand for several days to thoroughly blend before using.

                  PRUNELLE CORDIAL
   You can make your own prune syrup by simply boiling
enough primes in a small amount of water and powdered
sugar to make one pint of heavy sjTup. Strain through
muslin several times, until absolutely clear. Then add one
pint of 90% alcohol or a pint of fine French Brandy. Let
stand to blend for several days. Strain again and rebottle.
Of course, you can buy prune syrup, if you wish to avoid
bother.
                        Chapter XVni

    Favorite Wine Making Recipes
   While the passing of Prohibition is more than likely to end
the long era of home wine making, there may be some who
win like to prove their skill, and to please them, this chapter
is dedicated to some of the more popular homemade wines.
    Of them aU, the ordinary Grape and Blackberry Wines
lead the list, along with Elderberry, Raisin, Cherry, Dande-
hon and Rhubarb Wines. Among the recipes I now shall
list are some which have been our family pride for more
than a century.
                        GRAPE WINE
    WhUe this recipe is mainly for Concord (dark purple)
grapes, it can be used in the same fashion for any grapes and
produce satisfactory results. You may make any quantity
you wish by merely adhering to the proportions and treat
ment now cited.
   To make i s gallons of rich grape wine, crush 150 poimds of
grapes (approximately ten boxes each weighing 15 pounds).
An ordinary potato masher may be used. Put crushed grapes
into stone crocks and let stand covered for ten days, stirring
with wooden spoon twice a day as the grape pulps and skins
become dried on surface and wiU sour unless this is done.
Always replace cover.
   After ten days, siphon off the juice and then squeeze in a
wine press the pulpy remainder until aU the juice is extracted.
Add to the siphoned juice and divide the entire lot equally
into three five-gaUon bottles.
   To each gallon of juice now add two and a half pounds of
sugar, funnehng it into each s-gallon bottle. Now fill bottles
with lukewarm water to the point where the bottle starts to
taper toward the neck. Insert a rubber cork in which is a vent
formed by a sort of gooseneck pipe from which is appended a
hose. At the loose end of hose place a jar of water, so that
when hose is in the water no air can get to grape mixture.
   Let stand until all fermentation ceases. This you can
ascertain when the gases of fermentation cease to make
                              159
160                                    What Shall We Drink?
bubbles in the water jars. Change water about every three
days, but keep air away from the wine.
   "Vi^en fermentation has ceased, it might be well to wait
about another week to permit the wine mixture to precipitate
dregs to bottom of big bottles. Then, when wine has cleared,
siphon off into three other five-gallon bottles, being sure to
leave the dregs behind. Let stand another week, hghtly
corked, and then draw off into wine bottles which, of course,
must be corked tightly. Always allow, in all wine bottling,
about three inches of air space between the top of the wine
and the cork for gas expansion. Bottled in September, this
wine is drinkable by February. Of course, the longer it ages,
the better. If you wish to "fortify" the wine, you might put
into each s-gallon bottle a pint of Brandy, before adding
the water.
                   BLACKBERRY WINE
   To each gallon of mashed blackberries add one quart of
boiling water and let stand for 24 hours in stone crock or
crocks, depending on how much you make. Then siphon off
loose juice and crush the remaining pulp in wine press until
all juice is extracted. Add the juices together and to each
gallon of juice add three quarts of lukewarm water and two
pounds of brown sugar.
   If berries are used at peak of season, when very juicy,
32 quarts should make five gallons of juice, which, when
recipe is followed, should make ten gallons of wine.
    Let this ferment in s-gallon bottles, as prescribed for
grape wine, until all bubbles cease to rise in the water jars in
which each vent hose rests.
   Siphon off to get rid of dregs into other large containers
and let remain until wine clarifies.
   Now siphon off carefully into pint or quart bottles, being
careful to prevent dregs or sediment from getting into bottles.
Cork bottles tightly and use not sooner than the following
March. Longer aging, of course, makes the wine better.
                    ELDERBERRY WINE
   Crush elderberries as specified in the foregoing recipes and
let stand for fifteen hours. Siphon off the juice and squeeze
remainder from pulp. Now to every gallon of juice add an
Favorite Wine Making Recipes
equal amount of water and to each gallon of solution add
three pounds of brown sugar (brown sugar, by the way, is
most easily absorbed and makes alcohol faster than white
sugar; hence its suggestion here).
   Put into large bottles, as with grape and blackberry
wines, until fermentation ceases to make bubbles in vent
jars in which each hose rests. Siphon off as in other recipes
and when thoroughly clear, siphon into ordinary bottles and
cork tight. It requires from ten months to a year for elder
berry to be really tasty for drinking.
                        RAISm WINE
   By observing the following formula you may make as
much or as little raisin wine as you wish. To avoid carrying a
heavy receptacle, it might be best to place an empty boiler
on your gas range—but don't hght the flame until you have
ingredients mixed in it.
    To each pound of raisins pour into the boiler one gallon of
water and add to each gallon of water two and a half pounds
of brown sugar. (Some folks use yeast to expedite fermenta
tion, but it doesn't help the flavor and it is best to let nature
take its course with the sugar fermentation).
   Now let this mixture simmer over a slow flame but not
boil, for about an hour and a half. Remove and let cool for a
while until just lukewarm, then pour entire contents into
stone or earthenware crock or crocks, as in the other recipes
heretofore given. Let stand covered for not more than four
days, stirring twice a day. Then siphon off, as before, into
large bottles and go through the same process as in the black
berry, grape and elderberry wines, bottling after fermenta
tion ceases. In the case of raisins, however, the wine does not
become really palatable for a year after bottling.
                     DANDELION WINE
    For every two quarts of dandehon blossoms (no stems to
get into mixture) add two lemons and one orange, all seeded
and sliced. Pour over them four quarts of boiling water and
let stand for 24 hours.
    Siphon off into another crock and add to each such
quantity mixture four pounds of brown sugar and half
162                                    What Shall We Drink?
pound of raisins. Let ferment for three weeks or a bit longer
if not quiet by then.
    Siphon off into large bottles hghtly corked and wait until
sure the wine isn't "working" (fermenting) any more. Then
siphon into bottles and cork tightly. This wine should be
tasty in about nine months.
                      CHERRY WINE
    To every four povmds of crushed, sour cherries (Italian),
add six pounds of granulated sugar or brown sugar and two
gallons of cold water. Let stand in crock for five weeks,
covered, and stirring twice a day. Siphon off juice into large
bottles, but do not squeeze out the pulped cherries—throw
them away. Add about two pounds of brown sugar to each
5-gallon bottle and let ferment tiU quiet, then bottle.
                     RHUBARB WINE
    Rhubarb wine is best when made with about 30 pounds of
rhubarb cut into small stubs and crushed to each five gallons
of water. To each gallon of this mixture add two and a half
pounds of brown sugar and the juice of a lemon, adding the
oily yellow rinds only. Do not let any of the wMte pith get
into the mixture. Put into crock or crocks and let stand for
not more than two weeks, stirring twice a day. Siphon into
new crocks and add about a half pound more of brown sugar
for each resultant gallon. Let this stand about five days,
then siphon into 5-gaIIon bottles to end fermentation.
Bottle, cork tightly and use in about a year.
   The making of wines is useless if air is permitted to con
tact the mixtures, no matter what kind, for any length of
time. Acetic acid results and the wine turns into vinegar
instead of the gracious beverage you seek.
   The foregoing recipes are time-tried and certain to pro
duce excellent wines. If you desire particular flavorings of
the grape mixtures, it is easy to suit your own taste with
additions of slight amounts of brandy, rhatany, ground
cinnamon or cloves, cardamom or other flavorings. By thus
experimenting, you may counterfeit the flavors of many of
the wines which you buy as Port, Sherry, etc. In fact, it
might not be a bad idea to use some of these purchased wines
themselves to mix with your home-made wines.
                         Chapter XIX

   Something of Liquor Glassware
   Nothing enhances the festive board so much as the glass
ware to be used in serving the wines to be imbibed.
   One outstanding and almost imperative rule is to provide
glasses of crystal clearness for nearly all the wines, the only
exceptions, possibly, being for the Alsatian and Rhine wines.
Moselle and Chabhs, in which cases glasses of very dehcate
yellow or palest green almost unnoticeable in either hue,
may be permissible.
   Never use colored bowls for the other wines, nor any
gold, silver or fihgreed bowls. If you must insist upon any
engraving on your wine glasses, let it be the simplest of
monograms. Avoid the glass bowl of any type which con
ceals the rich colors of ruby, red, yellow, straw, gold, brown,
amber, red-brown, purple, crimson or opalescent wines. It is
the color which adds to the zest of wine, along with its aroma
or "bouquet."
   Anything in the glass service which detracts from a dis
play of the color of wine is an abomination to the epicure and
connoisseur. It is decidedly in bad taste and evinces lack of
sophistication and culture.
    Wine glasses are best the thinner and more fragile they
are, so far as the more dehcate vintages are concerned. For
the'hghter wines. Champagne and Sparkling Burgundy, the
stems are heavier, but the bowls holding the beverage should
be dehcate.
   When serving formally, all the glasses to be used in the
courses should be placed in their order upon the table in
front of each guest, forming an array of sparkhng beauty
holding rich promise and adding greatly to the decorative
effect of the table.
   As each glass is used and the contents fimshed with the
course, it should be removed and the next one for the next
course filled, emptied and similarly removed from table, so
that at the close of the feast only the cordial glasses and the
                              163
164                                      What Shall We Drink?
Champagne or Sparkling Burgundy glasses remain before the
guest. When the cordial glass is emptied, it, too, should be
removed, leaving the post-prandial table containing only the
glasses for toasting, which, of course, are filled and refilled as
the toasting progresses.
   The time for remaining at table is guided by host or
hostess after the meal is finished. This varies, but it usually
is not good form to rise immediately before observing some
of the table amenities, after the finger bowls have been
removed.
    After rising, the men probably will wish to smoke and the
ladies to powder their noses a bit, and then, these little func
tions disposed of, the social hour for chat and informahty is
made more deHghtful with occasional glasses of sparkhng
beverages.
   Cigarettes at table are permissible, but cigars should not
find place there if ladies are present. Cigars, of course, are
quite proper at "stag" dinners.
   And now, let us discuss the various types of glasses that
should go with the wines and other beverages.
   Suppose we start with the cocktail glass, the usual one for
the aperitif or appetizer.
   The cocktail glass varies in size and shape, but usually is
a stemmed glass with a sort of wide-mouthed, half spheroid
shape. Others are wider-mouthed and shallower or short-
stemmed and conical, flaring at top and much resembling a
Sherry glass. Others are straight, slender cylinders. Their
capacities vary from about two to six ounces. As in wine
glasses, the bowls should be transparent.
   For the dry white wines, glasses of the medium high stem
tuUp type or high-stemmed spheroid shapes should be used,
the bowls crystal clear. This rule is modified, as before
stated,in the case of the Rhine, Alsatian, Moselle and Chablis
wines, when either the palest yellow or palest green bowls
may be used. The capacities of the glasses vary from five to
seven ounces. Don't be alarmed, however, so far as the
capacities are concerned, for no wine glass ever should be
filled to the brim, but preferably only to a generous half of the
capacity. This is to permit of "rolling" the wine in the glass
Liquor Glassware                                        165




   A. Cordial or brandy glass. Liqueurs. Pousse-Cafes.
   B. (Left) Sherry glass. (Centre) Light, or dry wine glass.
(Right) Sweet Wine Glass.
   C. (Left) Champagne or sparkling wine glass. (Right)
Cocktail glass.
166                                     What Shall We Drink?
to moisten the inside walls and permit of greater enjoyment
of the "bouquet."
    For the demi-sec or "half-dry" wines, such as white
Burgundy or white Bordeaux, stemmed spheroid glasses are
preferable, but the long-stemmed tulip shapes are permissible.
The capacity varies from four to seven ounces.
    When serving the light red wines of Bordeaux or the
Rhone River district of France, use very wide-mouthed, large
tulip shaped glasses with high stems, or long stemmed
spheroids. Capacities range from four to seven ounces.
    For your Red Burgundy (stdl) use wide-mouthed tulip or
spheroid types to display to best advantage the glorious
crimson of the wine color.
    For Sparkling Burgundy a shorter, hollow-stemmed and
fairly wide-mouthed half-spheroid or flat-looking "coupe"
glass is used, so that the bubbling beads of effervescence may
rise from the stem bottom and be admired from the time of
their release until they break in contacting the air.
   For Champagne, the widest mouthed of all glasses should
be used. The shallow hemisphere or "coupe" surmounting
the hollowed stem, up which, as in the Sparkling Burgundy
glass which is slightly smaller, the beads rise fountain-like to
the stirface, should be expressive of generosity. Champagne
demands expanse—demands plenty of showiness, so to speak.
It is best appreciated,too,if imbibed from the wide-mouthed
glass, which, incidentally, is far more decorative than the
smaller sized, less showy tulip shaped glasses.
    Of course, you may use in serving wines, fancy bowls of
hexagon, octagon or fluted shape, but they are not in best
form, if you are a stickler for the niceties of the wining and
dining hour.
   A growing fad for colored stems or feet beneath pure
crystal bowls requires just a friendly word of warning to the
hostess to harmonize her color effects. Imagine my reaction
one time when, on an otherwise perfectly spread table, the
hostess served Port Wine in green-stemmed glasses! She
might have escaped later chagrin had she only used amber or
golden colored glass stems.
Liquor Glassware                                      167




   D. Mug for ale, beer, hot drinks, punches, etc.
   E. (Top) Old-fashioned cocktail glass. (Lower) "Jigger"
or whisky glass.
   F. (Left) Highball glass. (Right) Julep glass.
168                                     What Shall We Drink?
    Somehow that glass of Port seemed to lose its savor for
me, although I knew it was the best obtainable. The clash
of its tawny-red glory against the green stem was not only
unesthetic, but vulgarly conspicuous.
    Gold, silver, filigree and other ornamented stems or feet
should be used also with discrimination.
   But I forgot, in this digression, to say that Port Wine
should be served in crystal clear bowls of four-ounce capacity,
surmounting rather sturdier stems than the Sherry glass
boasts.
   The Sherry glass should be pipe-stemmed and rise in a
slenderly beautiful cone shape, flaring shghtly at the mouth
to a diameter of not more than three inches.
   Larger glasses of the Sherry type are used for Sauterne,
   Rhine and Riesling wine should be served in tall-stemmed
Rhine wine glasses either rising in shallow wide cones or in
slender and more tapering cones; or they may be hemi
spheric bowls wide at the mouth. The capacity varies from
five to seven ounces.
   Chianti, Claret and similar dry or light red wines, should
be served in medium long-stemmed, five-ounce glasses of the
large tuUp, semi-spheroid or goblet shape, bowls absolutely
unadorned and of clearest crystal, so as to reveal the sparkling
glories of their colors. There is no objection to serving
Sauteme and Graves in these glasses, either.
    Brandy should be served preferably in very slender and
small cone-shaped glasses tapering gracefully from the stem to
a diameter at top of not more than one and a half inches, or
in small-mouthed, bulging bowl "snifters" with stubby stems.
   Old-fashioned cocktails are served in what might best be
termed half-shell types of glasses, rising from a very thick
flat bottom in a slight tapering of its cyUndrical sides. It
stands not higher than four inches from its base.
    For cordials or liqueurs, of which never more than an
ounce and a half should be served, small, tapering, stub-
stemmed cylindrical or small cone-shaped Sherry glasses are
used.
   Beer glasses, which, of course, do not find place at the
formal dinner with the wines, vary from goblets to shells,
Liquor Glassware                                             169
which are virtually the same as highball glasses and can be
called small or large shells. Beer also may be served in
formally in mugs or steins, covered or uncovered, decorated
or plain, or in the stubby-stemmed, tapering, slender Pilsner
type of glasses.
    Ale is usually imbibed from tall, slender, very stubby
stemmed or unstemmed glasses which taper outward from
the foot toward the rim and end in a diameter not exceeding
three and one half inches.
   Highballs are served in ten-ounce, straight-sided, un
stemmed cylindrical glasses, usually called "shells."
   Frappes may be served in sherbet or cocktail glasses,
with straws or glass sippers to imbibe contents.
   Pousse Cafe drinks preferably are served in one-ounce
crystal cylinders rising from stems almost as long as the
bowls, or in the slender, small-sized Sherry glasses, so that
the layers of colored ingredients are visible in all their beauty.
    Straight drinks of whisky, gin and rum may be served in
two-ounce, flat-bottomed, tapering cylindrical glasses or in
bulging bowl and small mouthed glasses of the brandy glass
type. The straight glasses seldom rise more than three inches
from base to brim, and usually are called "ponies."
    A "pony" glass, as previously explained, is standard at a
capacity of two ounces and is virtually the same as the
straight whisky type of glass.
   Fizzes and rickeys, noggs and punches, juleps and
cobblers, which, by the way, were greatly relished by Charles
Dickens as a splendid Summer drink because of their re
freshing coolness; smashes, floats, lemonades, bishops and
sangarees, almost automatically suit themselves to the lo to
12-ounce goblet or tumbler, and, very often, to the highball
type of glass. Either is in good forrn.
   One almost finds a guide in selecting the glasses to use for
various wines and liqueurs by this simple process of reason
ing: For rare, high-priced, sweet wines use the smaller types
of glasses such as the Sherry glass or even smaller. For
"dry" wines, the medium tulip or wide-mouthed glasses.
For liqueurs the smallest types of glass. For sparkling
wines, wide-mouthed, generous looking glasses.
170                                    What Shall We Drink?
   These should be almost axiomatic guides. For instance,
one does not (or should not) drink as large a quantity of
sweet wines as the "dry" wines; hence the smaller glasses.
Too much sweetness cloys in using wines as well as in eating
candies, and one is hkely to suffer a "sour" feehng afterward.
   The "dry" wines, to the contrary, are more easily as
similated and hence predominate at the dinner, except for
the sparkhng types, which may be used almost abundantly
to start the merriment and conviviahty with which they al
ways are associated.
   In serving cordials and liqueurs this rule of small quantity
is virtually dictated by the size of the cordial glass. Never
should more than an ounce and a half of these beverages be
served at the meal. Cordials really take the place of sweets
and should be sipped with exquisite relish, hardly more than
moistening the hps at each raising of the glass.
   After the dinner and the cordials, there is no reason why
sweet wines should not be imbibed, if one Hkes them better
than the "dry," but the general preference seems to be for
the effervescent and joy-making Champagnes and sparkhng
Burgundies.
   If I may have seemed harsh toward colored bowls in
wine glassware, it is because that type is a barbaric result
and product of the Prohibition era, when good taste went to
smash and monstrosities, both in drinks and in eating habits,
thrust themselves upon the social amenities. They often
disguised evil beverages which came from the darloiess of
bootlegging and hi-jackery.
   Of course, they are dehghtfully informal and appear
pretty before being filled with wine. After ah, one may do
anyt^ng one chooses at informal affairs. But for the formal
meal, in the name of all that culture means, avoid colored
bowls as you would the plague I
                          Chapter XX

             General Observations
    Down through the centuries, since man learned to concoct
intoxicating beverages, the solemn warning has come to be
ware of alcohol. The Christian Bible,the Jewish Talmud,the
Mohammedan Koran, the ancient writings of Confucius,
Buddha, Brahma and a host of others into the remotest days
of antiquity have preached to men of the perils lurking in the
convivial glass.
    Against their teachings the virtues of wine have been sung
by the bards of Babylon, Assyria, Egypt, Greece, Rome,
Carthage and virtually all the civihzations of the past.
    Medieval praise of the grape followed, even in the missals
of the priesthood, although they also warned against intem
perate use of the "cup that cheers." Modern praise of the
nectars that go with ambrosia has not been lacking.
   Indeed, the battle between temperance and inordinate
drinking has gone on unabated since the first jolly fellow came
staggering home to his cave dwelling until today, when his
jolly descendant, with sUk topper tilted, tries vainly to find
the keyhole, or, finding it, tries to open the lock with a tooth
pick.
    Bigoted reformists have,from time to time, down through
the centuries, enacted compulsory prohibitive laws, only to be
defeated by liberalists when stern inhibitions evoked merely
the evils of defiance against law and authority, and compelled
more enforceable rules and statutes. I am for temperate
drinking.
   Temperate drinking makes alcohol a slave to man;intem
perate drinking makes man a slave to alcohol. Only the fool
permits alcohol, tobacco, tea, coffee, drugs or other poten
tially harmful products to enslave him. Drinking to the point
that produces headaches the morning after is mhrely inviting
slavery to the glass.
   But down through the ages has come the irrefutable
and omnipresent evidence that from the ranks of those who
                               171
172                                     What Shall We Drink?
drank or drink (even sometimes intemperately) have come
our greatest geniuses of poetry, art, music, science, literature,
philosophy, politics, statecraft, mathematics, astronomy,
drama, war, invention, exploration, yes, and even of rehgion.
   Hardly a hmnan activity can be named in which some
drinker has not stood pre-eminent—in manufactm-e, trade,
business and the industrial arts. By drinker, of comse, I do
not mean drunkard.
   One must be bigoted, indeed, to combat the superabun
dant evidence of the centuries.
   This book is not a defender of unbridled orgies or revelry.
Far from it. One need not become besotted to enjoy drinking.
   For the weak brothers and sisters of the glass who do not,
or will not, drink moderately, there can be only pity or con
tempt. But because these comparative few persist in being
intemperate is no reason why the vast majority of human
kind should be placed in straitjackets of tyrannical prohibi-
tionism.
   Entirely aside from the moral aspects of drinking, which
are capable of more than one interpretation, lie other features
of the question apparently ignored by fanatical reformers. I
refer to the medicinal value of Hquor, without which no book
on the subject of drinking could be complete.
    During the period of Prohibition, it was possible to obtain
liquor legally through a doctor's prescription. Even the
authorities who declared that no one could drink—legally—
were forced to concede the life-saving quaUties of good liquor.
   For instance, beers, ales, wines and liquors aU have valu
able medical qualities and have been prescribed down through
the centuries in cases of colds, fevers, poisoning, wounds and
anemia. They also form essential bases of tonics. Beer and
ale especially are excellent in their action on the elimination
processes of the human body. Given the choice between
them and the often habit-forming laxatives which are making
fortunes for patent medicine manufacturers, give me beer or
ale!
   In colds, nothing is more likely to afford that blood stimu
lation needed to overcome congestion, than a good hot punch
—any of those in this book—or any of the other hot drinks
General Observations                                         173
listed, such as noggs and cups. For the feverish person, some
of the cold drinks, given with smaller portions of alcoholic
content, will help more than harm the patient.
    In cases of poisoning, by snakebite, for instance, the need
is to keep the patient from yielding to the benumbing in
fluences of the poison, and nothing is better than a stiff hooker
of whisky, brandy or rum- -far stiffer in ounces than one
ordinarily might drink. The blood must be stimulated until
aid is obtained and a doctor can coordinate his effort with the
first aid afforded by the ardent spirits imbibed by the victim
of the poison.
    Wounds are cleansed and made antiseptic by washing with
whisky, brandy,rum, gin or straight alcohol.
    Nothing is better in anemia than rich Port Wine, the
finest blood builder and progenitor of red corpuscles in all the
wine list. Port,indeed,is virtually the basic ingredient of most
tonic preparations. All wine tonics are good for general run
down conditions and an occasional "shot" of whisky, gin or
rum works marvels.
   Heavy eaters often suffer from indigestion. Too many
times after a hearty meal they feel distressed. One of the
simplest ways to overcome this effect is to sip, after the meal,
a white or green Creme de Menthe frappe, which marvelously
tones the stomach and averts the formation of the gases which
cause so much distress.
   Morning headaches, whether from over-drinking or any
other cause, often are banished by a "fizz" or some of the
"sour" drinks listed in this volume. Headaches arise mostly
from stomachic disorders. Drinks containing bitters are very
helpful, but hold down on the alcoholic portions—say, to
about half the ordinary quantity called for in the standard
drinks.
   For fatigue, nothing refreshes and stimulates the human
system so much as the sparkling wines, lemonade-hquor
drinks, slings, juleps, highballs, rickeys and bishops.
   These are but a few of the medical uses and values of the
alcoholic beverages which man's genius and God's Providence
have bestowed upon the human family. Only abuse, not
174                                   What Shall We Drink?

temperate use, causes them to become banes, just as anything
else used to excess can become baneful to the human system.
    I have tried throughout this volume to make it helpful to
drinker, host, hostess and guest. I cannot conclude it without
adding, in the next chapter, toasts for the convivial post
prandial hours. And as a parting word, I urge my readers to
maintain mastery over appetite and thirst—and wish them
all long hves, fine digestion, good health through correct
drinking, happiness and prosperity.




                                                           1- IfyffAJtiiih II
                            Chapter XXI

                             Toasts
       Toasts are expressions of friendship, admiration,esteem or
hope. They voice a wish for another's welfare, for mutual
felicity and prosperity, or for turns in the tide of Fate. They
may be ironic, cynical or defiant, as a hope for a foe's van-
quishment. Nearly every emotion may be voiced in them and
they may be given in verse or prose.
   If host or hostess toast their guests, the guests Hkewise
may toast their hosts or hostesses. At pubhc banquets or
dinners the toasts become, too often, long-winded eulogies.
They are to be tolerated, not encouraged, although, of coirrse,
one must applaud, willy nilly.
   In its best sense, the toast should be short and fehcitous,
a voicing of some nice sentiment from one person to another.
Many start the dinner with a cocktail toast to the host or
hostess. But the real toasting comes with the sparkling wines,
when. Champagne or Sparkling Burgundy glass in hand, the
hour of conviviahty starts post-prandial eloquence.
   It is not difl&cult to memorize a good toast, but some of the
best are impromptu. The recipient of a toast tribute should
not be tongue-tied, but should make some response as graci
ous as the one bestowed. Wine tends toward joviahty and,
even if one cannot be eloquent, the mood of the glass accepts
the return toast as a gem of thought even if it be a mere re
ciprocal wish.
   Toasts, as a rule, should be drunk standing, but as this
sometimes is awkward, the lifting of glasses high before
drinking may suflfice. Readers wUl find a toast to fit almost
any occasion in the following gleanings from masters of the
art:
              A Few Popular Toasts
           Come, fill the cup, and in the fire of Spring
           Your winter garment of repentance fling;
              The Bird of Time has but a little way
           To flutter—and the Bird is on the Wing!
                               "Rubaiyat" (Fitzgerald trans.)
                                175
176                                   What Shall We Drink?
              Gentle friends, forbear to laugh
              As I toast the wine I quaff—
              Fair companions, what can be
              Truer friend to you and me?
                                  —George Sterling
              God of youth, let this day here
                Enter neither care nor fear!
                                  —John Fletcher

      A Book of Verses underneath the bough,
        A Jug of Wine, a Loaf of Bread—and Thou
      Beside me singing in the Wilderness—
        Ah, Wilderness were Paradise enow!
                                 —Omar Khayyam

              Let's be gay while we may
                And seize love with laughter;
              I'll be true
              As long as you
                But not a moment after!
                                  —Anon

          Here's to the bride and mother-in-law.
          Here's to the groom and father-in-law.
          Here's to the sister and brother-in-law.
          Here's to friends and friends-in-law.
            May none of them need an attorney-at-law!
                                                 —Anon

          Here's to the girl that I love
            And here's to the girl who loves me;
          And here's to all who love her whom I love.
            And all those who love her who loves me!
                                          —Ouida

          Ah, my beloved, fill the cup that clears
          Today of past'regrets and future fears;
            Tomorrow? Why, tomorrow I may be
          Myself with yesterday's sev'n thousand years!
                           —"Rubaiyat" (Fitzgerald trans.)
                 If she think not well of me,
                 What care I how fair she be?
                                   —George Wither
Toasts                                                        ^
                   Here's to the light that lies
                     In woman's eyes—
                        And lies and lies and lies!
                        —Anon. Paraphrasing Thomas Moore

Here's to the woman who has a smile for every joy, a tear for
every sorrow, a consolation for every grief, an excuse for every
fault, a prayer for every misfortune, and encouragement for
every hope.
                                                   —Sainte-Foix


Here's our next joyous meeting—and oh, when we meet,
May our wine be as bright as our union is sweet!
                                            —Thomas Moore

              Should auld acquaintance be forgot
                And never brought to mind?
              Should auld acquaintance be forgot,
                And days of auld lang syne?
              For auld lang syne, my dear.
                For auld lang syne.
              We'll tak a cup o' kindness yet.
                For auld lang syne!
                                  —Burns

            God made man, frail as a bubble,
              Man made love, love made trouble—
           God made the vine—
              Then, is it a sin
              That man made wine
                To drown trouble in?
                                     —Anon

           Here's to the girl that's good and sweet,
             Here's to the girl that's true;
           Here's to my heart that's at your feet—
             My darling, here's to you!

                Oh, here's to other meetings.
                  And merry greetings then.
                And here's to those we've drunk with
                  And never can again!
                                    —Major
178                                     What Shall We Drink?

                  Here's a long purse to you,
                  And a great thirst to you I
                  Fate be no worse to you I
                                         —Richard Hovey

               Then hail the banner of the free,
               The starry flower of liberty!
                                    —Holmes                     j
       Why, be this Juice the growth of God, who dare           ^
       Blaspheme the twisted tendril as a snare?
         A blessing, we should use it, should we not?
       And if a curse—why, then. Who set it there?
                                           —Omar Khayyam

           May the rose of England fairer blow.
           May Scotia's thistle taller grow;
           May the harp of Erin sweeter play.
           While the Stars and Stripes shall hold their sway!
                                                       —Anon

Our country, our whole country, and nothing but our country!
                                                     —Webster

           Here's to God's first thought, Man!
           Here's to God's second thought. Woman!
             Second thoughts are always best—
                So here's to Woman!
                                  —Anon

By mem'ries lurkin' in our hearts an' all our eyes bedimmin'.
We'll drink a health to those we love, and who love us—the
   wimmin!                                 —Eugene Field

      And much as wine has played the Infidel,
      And robbed me of my robe of honor—well,
         I wonder what the vintners buy
      One half so precious as the stuff they sell?
                                        —Omar Khayyam

                  Here's a fair strife to you!
                  Health and long life to you!
                  And a great wife to you!
                                       —Richard Hovey
      Toasts
                      Stand to your glasses steady,
                        And drink to your comrades' eyes;
                      Here's a cup to the dead already,
                         And hurrah for the next that dies!
                                                 —Anon


                       Here's luck and more to you!
                       Friends by the score to you,
j,'                     True to the core to you!
I                                              —Richard Hovey

             Let's wisely partake of the generous juice.
             But don't forfeit the boon by excess or abuse!
                                             —Neaves


                   Make the most of life while you may.
                   Life is short and wears away!
                                             —William Oldys

      Let us drink (—who would not?—) since through life's varied
         round
      In the goblet alone no deception is found!
                                            —Byron

             Here's to our soldiers, may they ever be brave.
             In the fight for the right and our country to save!

                           To Our Soldier Dead
                           Hats off! Sacred host!
                             Hail the fiag they defended!
                           To the cause give a toast
                             That freedom portended!

      Here's to woman!—Ah,that we could fall into her arms without
         falling into her hands!
                                                   —Ambrose Bierce

         To a most delectable woman—the other man's widow!

             My toast's to the girl with a heart and a smile.
             Who makes this bubble of life worth while!
                                                     —Anon
180                                   What Shall We Drink?
      The daylight is gone, but before we depart,
      One cup shall go round to the friend of my heart!
                                                    —Moore

   To things we cherish—our friends, our books, our love, our
times, our manners and our wine!

           Here's to our friends in Heaven,
             Here's to our friends in Hell;
           And damned be the man who kisses a girl
             And then will go round and tell!
                                         —Anon

   Here's to the only true language of love—a kiss!
                                        —Alfred De Musset

   Here's to goodbyes—that they never be spoken!
   Here's to friendships—may they never be broken!

   Drink hearty, lads, to the hope that you may drink heartier!

               Here's to Water, water divine,—
                 It dews the grapes that give us wine!
         Here's to the stork, that noble old bird,
         So needed by couples to explain the third!
             To baby hands, so weak yet strong.
             That tie the knot of love life long!

         A toast to our host
           And a song from the short and the tall of us.
         May he live to be
          The guest of all of us!

         There swims no goose so gray, but soon or late
         She finds some honest gander for her mate!
                                               —Pope

Oh, think of the moment when conscience returning
   Shall put the brief pleasures of Bacchus to flight;
When the tongue shall be parched and the brow shall be burning.
   And most of tomorrow shall taste of tonight!
                                           —Henry S. Leigh
Toasts                                                       181
   When I said I should die a bachelor, I did not think I should
live till I were married.
                                                  —Shakespeare
         Tell me, ye lovers of liquor divine.
         Did you ever see a frown in a bumper of wine?
                                          —"Clio and Euterpe"

   Here's to matrimony—and a good compass to steer its seas!

   To my pal—that too many may not make my share of his
friendship too small!
            Thou hast no faults, or I no faults can spy.
            Thou art all beauty, or all blindness I!
                                                  —Codrington

              Let wine be earth and air and sea—
              And let that wine be all for me!
                                                —Anon


   May all single men be wed and all husbands happy!
            Some men want youth and others health,
              Some want a wife and some a punk.
            Some men want wit and others wealth.
              But they want NOTHING that are drunk!
                                                 —Old Song

              Here's to you and you to me
              And thirsty souls where'er they be!
            Come, fill the cup to keep the spirits up
            By drinking the spirits down.

   To Grief—without which our joys were tame!
   A toast to all our neighbors—so long as they mind their own
business!
             To Hell! May we have as good a time there
             As we had in getting there!
                                       —Anon

   A toast to Dan Cupid, the great evil-doer;
   A merciless rogue—may his darts ne'er grow fewer!
                                            —Estelle Foreman
182                                        What Shall We Drink?
            Here's to the mad world, the glad world,
              The world of you and me—
           'Tis better here from year to year
              Than in Eternity 1

              Let me dream as of old by the river.
              And be loved for the dream alway;
                For a dreamer lives forever.
                And a toiler dies in a day!
                                       —John Boyle O'Reilly

        Here's to the noblest, thankful hearts that take
          The bread of pain, the bitter cup of woe.
        And dare to feel content, for old joys' sake.
           Among the thorns where roses used to blow.
                                               —Anon

               Here's a toast to all who are here.
                 No matter where you're from;
               May the best day you have seen
                  Be worse than the worst to come!
                                             —Anon

All I ask is a merry yarn from a laughing fellow rover.
And quiet sleep and a sweet dream when the long trick's over!
                                                —John Masefield

              Above, they say, our flesh is air;
                Our blood celestial ichor;
              Oh, grant,(mid all the changes there,)
                They may not change our liquor!
                                      —Thackeray

   Here's to "the noble experiment's" ignoble death!
   God save me from my friends; I can take care of my enemies.
                                             —LaRochefoucauld

   To work, the best thing to make us love life.
                                               —Ernest Renan

   Wine, women and song, may the three be found together, a
trinity of blessings trebly dear united.
Toasts                                                       ^
   To news, living history I

   Here's to the press, mirror of life; may it always reflect the
truth!

   To advertising, the life blood of business and trade!

           Good luck to the hoof and the horn!
             Good luck to the flock and the fleece!
           Good luck to the growers of corn!
             With blessings of plenty and peace!
                                          —Anon

   To farmers—founders of civilization!
                               —Daniel Webster (paraphrased)

   May our feast days be many and our fast days be few!
                                             —Mary L. Booth

   To Christmas, time of remembrance and kind deeds!
     Let us remember and taste the good cheer.
     And remember old Christmas but comes once a year.
                                  —Old Christmas Carol

                I wish you a Merry Christmas
                And a Happy New Year
                A pocket full of money
                And a cellar full of beer!
                                      —Anon


  To the Blue Eagle—may its wings never grow drab!
  We may live without love—what is passion but pining?
  But where is the man that can live without dining?
                                             —Owen Meredith

  To water—without which there were no wine!

  I give you play days, gay days, heydays—and pay days!
  Here's a health to all hunters, and long be their lives.
  May they never be crost by their sweethearts or wives!
                                                      —Anon
                                 184                                                      What Shall We Drink?

                                          Here's to golf—for its nineteenth hole!

                                                             Drink to me only with thine eyes
                                                             And I will pledge with mine,
                                                             Or leave a kiss within the cup
                                                             And I'll not ask for wine.
                                                             The thirst that from the soul doth rise
                                                             Doth ask a drink divine,
                                                             But might I of Jove's nectar sip,
                                                             I would not change for thine!
                                                                                          —Ben Jonson

                                                             Today is ours; what do we fear?
                                                             Today is ours; we have it here!
                                                             Let's banish business, banish sorrow.
                                                             To the gods belongs tomorrow!
                                                                                        —Cowley

                                         Let the lass be good even if the glass is filled badly.
                                                                                          —Old English Toast

                                                         Give the toast, good fellow, be jovial and gay,
                                                         And let the brisk moments pass jocund away!
                                                                                                  —Anon

                                                            Here's to the girl with eyes of brown,
                                                            Whose spirit proud you cannot down!
                                                                                                  —Anon

                                         May the hinges of friendship never rust or the wings of love
                                lose a feather.                                            —Old Scotch Toast

                                            Let's eat, drink and play till the worms do corrupt us,
                                         'Tis certain, "Post mortem nulla voluptas,"
                                          For health, wealth and beauty, wit, learning and sense
                                          Must all come to nothing a hundred years hence.
                                                                                             —Thomas Jordan

                                                             Then fill the cup, fill high, fill high!
                                                               Let Joy our goblets crown;
                                                             We'll bung Misfortune's scowling eye.
                                                               And knock Foreboding down!
                                                                                       —Lowell




faj i"i ir vnifJi'lifiifi'iilfTii fariifiyilriilMiifeT          1
Toasts                                                        ^
   Oh, some are fond of red wine, and some are fond of white.
   And some are all for courting by the pale moonlight.
   But rum alone's the tipple, and the heart's delight!
                                                 —John Masefield

            Ship me somewhere East of Suez,
              Where the best is like the worst;
            Where there ain't no ten commandments
              And a man can raise a thirst!
                                                —Kipling

   Here's to Eve,the mother of all beauty, and the grandmother
of all mischief!                                   —Carolus Ager
                     Here's to the clever—
                     May they be with us ever!
                                                —Meusa

               Wreathe the bowl
               With flowers of soul
                    The brightest Wit can find us;
               We'll take a flight
               Toward Heav'n tonight
                 And leave dull earth behind us!
                                                  —Moore

                   He who drinks one glass a day
                   Will live to die some other way.
                                       —Stanlicus

           Oh, many a man has drunk to his bride.
             And a bonnie fair maide she may be.
           But I give a health to the ale that I quaff.
             For my ale cask is married to me!
                                             —Henry Stanley Haskms
                   Whisky, drink divine.
                     Why should drivellers bore us
                   With the praise of wine
                     When we have thee before us?
                                           —Joseph G'Leary
                         Fill, lads, fill!
                            Here we have a cure
                              For every ill!
                                         —Frederick Marryatt
186                                   What Shall We Drink?
      O'er a song and a bumper then let us be gay,
      Nor think of tomorrow, but drink, boys, today!
                                                 —Anon

             Were't the last drop in the well.
               As I gasped upon the brink,
             Ere my fainting spirit fell,
               'Tis to thee that I would drink!
                                       —Byron

              Happy mortal! He who knows
              Pleasure which a pipe bestows!
                                 —Isaac Hawkins Browne

           Here's to the land that gave me birth.
             Here's to the flag she flies.
           Here's to her sons, the best of earth.
             Here's to her smiling skies!
           Here's to a heart which beats for me,
             True as the stars above.
           Here's to the day when mine she'll be—
             Here's to the girl I love!
                                      —Frank Pixley

           Here's a turkey when you are hungry,
            Champagne when you are dry,
          A pretty girl when you are lonely.
             And Heaven when you die!
                                        —Anon

         Sweet Hope, ethereal balm upon you shed,
         And wave her silver pinions o'er your head!
                              —John Keats (Paraphrased)
         To every lovely lady bright.
           What can I wish but faithful knight?
         To every faithful lover, too.
           What can I wish but lady true?
                                           —Scott

         Here's to a life with tranquil comfort blest,
         All earth can give that earth has best!
                                               —Holmes
Toasts                                 ^                    187
    May we kiss whom we please and please whom we kiss.
                                                      —Anon

  Oh,some that's good and godly ones they say that it's a sin,
  To troll the jolly bowl around, and let the dollars spin;
  But I'm for toleration—and for drinking at an inn!
                                             —John Masefield

        Here's to the present—and to hell with the past!
        A health to the future and joy to the last!
                   To you and you.
                   Our friends kind and true,
                     In glasses tall.
                      We'll drink to one and all
                          For auld lang syne!
                                     —Drinking Song

    Here's to the poorhouse—may we never enter it!
         There's a beautiful toast
         To a feminine host.
           There's a swing to the ladies, God bless 'em!
         But the women should cry
         With their glasses on high,
           A toast to the men who dress 'em!
                                            —Anon

   Let's drink to Love, the darndest most contrary, vexatious-
and distressing thing in life—and the most comforting and divine.
   To that supreme creation of God—Mother!
                 A toast to dad.
                 The dear old lad.
                    Who toils from day to day,
                 Little appreciated,
                 Mostly depreciated.
                   But fighting our troubles away!

   To father—next to Mother the finest parent in the world!
   Here's to the hand of friendship—may its clasp always be
warm!
188                                        What Shall We Drink?

                 Let's drink to our sweethearts
                   Who'll soon be our wives
                 And hope they'll be sweethearts
                   Throughout all our lives 1

                  Here's till we meet again,
                  And when we meet
                  That we will meet
                  Again and again and again I

         Now while we drink to each and each to other,
         I give you this—to Mother 1

               Here's to our wives, God bless 'em.
                 And may they bless us in return—
               But I very much fear
               They will turn a deaf ear
                 And all of our blessings will spurn!

                What am I?
                  An infant crying in the night.
                  An infant crying for the light—
                And with no language but a cry!
                                             —'Tennyson

      Here's a toast to the toast that good fellowship brings
        With the sparkle of beer and of wine;
      May its merriment always be deeper, my friends.
       Than the foam on the top of the stein
                                                —Anon

                I have known many, liked a few.
                Loved but one—so, here's to you!
                                                —Anon

   Here's to bachelors—consolers of widows and hopes of
maidens!                       —De Finod (Paraphrased)

         Who drinks to parting, when parting is pain?
         Let's drink but to meeting—and meeting again!

    To one who never murmurs, who gives fealty and faith un
stinted, who would willingly die if I might live—my dog!
Toasts                                                       189
                 You and I are far too wise
                   Not to fill our glasses,
                 Here's to me and here's to thee,
                     And here's to all the lasses!
                                            —Richard Hovey

               Comrades, pour the wine tonight.
                 For the parting is with dawn.
               Oh, the clink of cups together.
                 With the daylight coming on!
                                           —Hovey

          Here's to those who wish us well.
          And those who don't may go to—Heaven!
                                               —James Keene


   May your joys be as deep as the ocean and your sorrows as
light as its foam.                                      Anon
              Here's to the saint and the sinner,
              The saint for the sins he hasn't
              The sinner for sins he has.
              For the saint could be never a winner
              If there were no sinner!

  God rest ye merry, gentlemen!
                           —Old Song

   Here's to well enough and not enough but even more to just
enough!

   Who cares for temperance cares best for wine!

                 I drink to one and only one—
                And may that one be he
               Who loves but one and only one—
                 And may that one be ME!
                                               —Anon


   May we never want a friend, nor a bottle to give him.
                                                     —Dickens


   Today we toast, tomorrow roast!
190                                   What Shall We Drink?
              Here's to thee and thy folks!
              May they love me and my folks
              As much as me and my folks
              Love thee and thy folks!
                                     —Anon

      There are no sorrows wine cannot allay,
      There are no sins wine cannot wash away!
        There are no riddles wine knows not to read,
      There are no debts wine is too poor to pay!
                 "Rubaiyat" (Richard LeGallienne trans.)

            Fill up the bowl, upon my soul.
            Your troubles you'll forget, sir.
            If it takes more, fill twenty score.
            Till you have drowned regret, sir!
                                   —Alfred Breun

          Who loves not wine, woman and song.
          He is a fool his whole life long!
                           —Thackeray, after the German
       Here's to the prettiest.
         Here's to the wittiest.
           Here's to the truest of aU who are true;
       Here's to the sweetest one.
         Here's to the neatest one.
           Here's to them all in one—here's to you!
                                                   —Anon

  To the model husband—always some other woman's!
                                                —Anon

          Here's to the man who loves his wife.
            And loves his wife alone.
          For many a man loves another man's wife
            When he should be loving his own!
                                              —Anon

           Here's to thine and here's to mine!
             Now's the time to clink it!
           Here's a flagon of old wine
             And here we are to drink it!
                                         —Hovey
Toasts                                                       191

    Here's to the hostess! May she he hung, drawn and quar
tered! May she be hung with jewels, drawn in a coach and four,
and quartered in a palace!                          —Anon

    Come in the evening or come in the morning—
    Come when you're looked for, come without warning;
    A thousand welcomes you'll find here before you!
    And the oftener you come the more I'll adore you!
                                            —Old Irish Toast

   May our friendship, like wine, improve with time.

             Away with farewells,
               Let welcomes always be!
                 And may we always share wells
                   Of friendship deep as sea!

                Come, fill to joyous years
                  This crystal clear and fine—
                The morn may fill with tears
                  What now we fill with wine!
                                            —Sheffauer


   A million surplus Maggies are willing to bear the yoke;
   And a woman is only a woman, but a good cigar is a Smoke!
                                                   —Kipling

                 Welcome be ye that are here.
                 Welcome and make good cheer.
                 Welcome and Happy New Year!
                                           —Old Song

         May mirth and good fellowship ever abound!
         Boys, fill up a bumper, and let it go round!
                                                 —Old Song
             To you, to me, to all of us.
             May Sorrow never take a fall of us!
           God grant you many and happy years,
           Till, when the last has crowned you,
           The dawn of endless years appears,
           And Heaven is shining round you!
                                        —Holmes
192                                   What Shall We Drink?
  To hospitality, the sweetest thing that ever graced a honael

      Here's to the girlie who isn't too wise,
      Or hides all her wisdom behind her two eyes!

   May your mirror never reflect a sorrow!

       Here's to man from morning to night.
       Here's to the man with courage to fight.
       The courage to fight and the courage to live—
       The courage to learn and to love and forgive.
                                                 —Anon

   To woman—the masterpiece!
                             —Confucius

   To women, God bless them—even if they damn us!

   Here's to mothers—the guideposts to Heaven!
                                                —Meusa

        Here's to the maid ye love, my lads.
          And here's to her promise true.
        And here's to the blue of the sky in her eye
           And the print of her tiny shoe!
        I drink to her sunny hair, my lads,
          I drink to her lips rose red.
        The lass you love is the world to you
          When all's been done and said!
                               —Robert Emmet Mac Alarney
   To our wives, whom we may not know so well, but who know
us perfectly!

   Our country! In her intercourse with foreign nations may
she always be right;,but our country right or wrong!
                                         —Stephen Decatur

   America and England: and may they never have any division
but the Atlantic between them!
                           —Charles Dickens

   That government of the people, by the people and for the
people shall not perish from the earth!
                                   —Abraham Lincoln
Toasts                                                      ^
                 Life slips its tether
                 When good fellows get together.
                                             —Richard Hovey

     Here's to the gladness of her gladness when she's glad!
     Here's to the sadness of her sadness when she's sad!
     But the gladness of her gladness
     And the sadness of her sadness
     Are not in it with her madness when she's mad!
                                                    —Anon


     Here's to the land of the shamrock so green,
     Here's to each lad and his darling colleen,
     Here's to the ones we love dearest and most—
    And may God save old Ireland—that's an Irishman's toast!
                                                       —Anon


           Here's health to you and wealth to you.
             Honors and gifts a thousand strong;
           Here's name to you and fame to you.
             Blessing and joy a whole life long!
           But, lest bright Fortune's star grow dim.
              And sometimes cease to move to you,
           I fill my bumper full to the brim
              And pledge a lot of love to you!
                                         —Nannie B. Turner


    After man came woman—and she has been after him ever
since!                                         —Anon

              Within this goblet, rich and deep,
              I cradle all my woes to sleep!
                                            —Moore

          We'll drink to the friends who wish us well.
            So fill to the brim and toast 'em;
          And if there be those who wish us ill—
            Why, now is the time to roast 'em!
                                         —Grace Luce Irwin

   Here's to luck—that it may come our way!

  A toast to Fear—that we may never feel it!
194                                       What Shall We Drink?
            To our Army and Navy forever,
              Linked by a tie ne'er to sever 1
                God give them the might
                To fight the good fight
                  And taste of defeat no, not ever!

                To the ace of the skies.
                May God give his eyes
                  First sight of a foe in a plane!
                And when the fight's over
                May he be in clover
                  And fly to our welcome again!

                    Let's drink to Old Glory,
                      The flag of the free!
                    May ever her story
                       Most glorious be!

                   Here's to the cultured
                     And here's to the crude.
                   So long as they're honest
                     And drink without mood!

   To Wealth—the kind that cannot be alloyed by greed—
   The wealth of love and hope and kindly deed!

      Come, fill a fresh bumper, for why should we go
      While the nectar still reddens our cups as they flow!
                                                         —Holmes

   To our President: May God guide his actions, guard his
health and preserve his mind.

          A song for our banner! The watchword recall
            Which gave the Republic her station!
         "United we stand, divided we fall!"
            It made and preserves us a nation!—J. P. Morris

                Hail, social glass, thou foil to care.
                Here and there and everywhere!

   Here's to misers—whose abstinence gives us the more to
drink.
r
     Toasts                                                       ^
               When love grows cold, 'tis wine still warms me,
               When friends are fled, 'tis wine that charms me.

        To lawyers—who can win for us!

                  To bachelors—who ought to know better
                  That, doubled, a drink is the wetter!

                       A bumper to the oflBce boy.
                         To whom all men are one;
                       He turns aside the millionaire.
                         He turns aside the bum!
                                            —R. W. Criswell

                  May we ever escape boredom—and bores;
                  May we ever escape soredom—and sores;
                    And if we meet either—
                   I hope we meet neither!—
                  May it be in a place without doors!

       Here's to our critics—who convince us only the more of our
    virtues!

                  Here's to the maiden of bashful fifteen;
                   Now to the widow of fifty;
                 Here's to the flaunting, extravagant queen.
                   And here's to the housewife that's thrifty.
                 Let the toast pass.
                 Drink to the lass,
                    I'll warrant she'll prove
                    An excuse for the glass.—Sheridan
                      Here's to our hostess.
                        Whose labors to please
                           Now make her our toastess
                             For not serving us teas!

                        Here's all that's fine to you!
                        Books and old wine to you!
                        Girls be divine to you!
                                                —Richard Hovey

       To woman—you can't live with her and you can't live with
    out her!                                                 —Anon
196                                       What Shall We Drink?
                Disguise the bondage as we will,
               'Tis woman—woman rules us still I
                                               —Longfellow

  To woman—once our superior, now our equal!
                                                  —Anon

        Ho, a song by the fire, fill the pipes, pass the bowl    tr

        Ho, a song by the fire, with a skoal, with a skoal!      I

                                              —Richard Hovey

  Here's hoping you will live one thousand years;
  Here's hoping I will live one thousand years less one day!
    How could I live on that day
      Knowing that you had passed away?
                                            —Anon


               Give a rouse, then, in the Maytine
                 For a life that knows no fear!
               Turn nighttime into daytime
                 With the sunlight of good cheer!
               For it's always fair weather.
               When good fellows get together.
      With a stein on the table and a good song ringing clear.
                                                       —Hovey
                 A peace to those who hate us,
                   A smile for those who love.
                 Patience for those who wait us.
                   And for cold hands a glove!

           Here's to the black eye, the melting blue—
           I cannot choose between the two!
                                          —Holmes

                 Not the laurel—but the race.
                 Not the quarry—but the chase!
                                               —Anon

  To castles in the air—may they never vanish!

               Here's to the girl with eyes of gray,
               Whose sunny smile drives care away!
                                               —Anon
     Toasts                                                         ^
                God grant us good, whether or not we pray,
                But e'en from praying souls keep bad away.
                                                            —Anon


         May all your pain be sham pain, and aU your champagne
     real!                                                   —Anon

        He who drinketh strong beer and goes to bed right mellow.
        Lives as he ought to live and dies a hearty fellow.
                                                —Old English Song

                    Why measure all your good in gold?
                      No rope of sand is weaker;
                   'Tis hard to get, 'tis hard to hold—
                      Come, lad, fill up your beaker!
                                                  —Mark Lemon

                         Hand round the wine—
                         The past is mine!—Ednah Robinson

         May the work that you have be the play that you love.
                                                        —Geberding

        Here's to the whole world,for fear that some fool will be sore
     because he's left out!                                —Anon

              Come, love and health to all;
              Then I'll sit down. Give me some wine, fill full,
                I drink to the general joy o' the whole table.
                                                     —Shakespeare
|i                 One word ere yet the evening ends,
j                    Let's close it with a parting rhyme,
'                  And pledge a hand to all our friends
                     As fits this merry Christmas time!
                                                     —Thackeray

                         Here's to our home.
                           And here's to our club.
                         But not to the home
                           Where the club waits the "hub!"
                                                —Phil McAllister

               May good heads be preferred to fine heads!
                                           —Old English Toast
198                                     What Shall We Drink?
            Here's to a long life and a merry one,
              A quick death and a happy one,
                A good girl and a pretty one,
                   A cold bottle and—another one!—Anon

           Here's to the girl, demure and bland.
           In entertaining, apt and able;
           Whose eyes look down, whene'er her hand
             Caresses yours beneath the table!
                                        —William E. S. Fales

              Here's to the girl with eyes of blue.
              Whose heart is kind and love is true!—Anon

          A toast to the fellow who when he drinks deep
          Gets royaUy mellow and then falls asleep!—Fales
   Here's a health to you and yours who have done such things
for us and ours; and when we and ours have it in our powers to do
for you and yours what you and yours have done for us and ours,
then we and ours will do for you and yours what you and yours
have done for ours.                       —Old English Toast
                   A toast to the wise
                     And a toast to the foolish
                   A toast to your eyes—
                     May they never grow mulish!
          Whate'er the hue of their eyes may be,
          I'll drink to the girls this toast with thee!—Anon
   Here's hoping your life may be happy and gay,
   Some honest work done and some leisure for play.
   And last—since I'm toasting your happiness true—
   Here's hoping—here's hoping your friends may be few!
                                               —MacAlarney
                   Here's to thee and thine.
                   Here's to me and mine—
                   May thine and thee
                   Like mine and me!

      To our sweethearts and wives—may they never meet!
                                                       —Anon

            May the last dollar soon have a successor.
Toasts                                                     199
                   Better beams without stars
                     Than stars that don't shine;
                   Better wine without jars
                     Than jars without wine!—Bodenstedt
              Hands around, then, all together—
              Glass to glass, and let them chnk—
                   Glasses clink!
              Care is dead and folly reigneth;
              Fill again and blithely drink!
                   Fill and drink!—Ernest S. Simpson

    He is not drunk who, from the floor.
      Can rise again and drink some more;
        But he is drunk who prostrate lies.
           And cannot drink or cannot rise.—Eugene Field

  So, when that Angel of the darker Drink,
  At last shall find you by the river-brink.
    And, offering his Cup, invite your Soul
  Forth to your lips to quaff—you shall not shrink.
               —"Rubaiyat" (Fitzgerald translation)
                 I used to know a clever toast,
                   Butpshaw! Icannot think it—
                So fill your glass to anything
                     And, bless my soul, I'll drink it!
                                     —Wallace Irwin

   Here's to life: entered with a protest—endured on com-
pulson—and left with a sigh.             —John Ernest McCann
    Here's to Miss Fortune—may we always Miss her.
    Here's to Dame Fortune—may we meet and kiss her.
                                       —John Ernest McCann

           To a newly-wed pair:
           May your troubles be only little ones!
  To the Star-spangled Banner, oh, long may it wave
  O'er the land of the free and the home of the hrave!
                              —Paraphrasing Francis Scott Key
    Here's to our enemies who openly fight us
    And a curse on false friends who secretly blight us!
200                                      What Shall We Drink?
   Cursed be the companion of the glass—with a memory!
                                           —Lord Byron
   To home—the place where we grumble the most and are
treated the best!

               May your shadow never grow less!
                                     —From the Arabian

      Here's to undertakers—may they never OVERtake us!
                                 —Henry Stanley Haskins

   To Home—a world of strife shut out, a world of love shut in.
                                                        —Anon
          Come, fill your glass with wine that gleams
            As bright as stars above,
          And while the generous bumper streams,
            Let's toast the girls we love!
                            —John McNaught (Paraphrased)
         Ah, make the most of what we yet may spend,
           Before we, too, into the Dust descend.
             Dust unto dust, and under dust to lie.
         Sans wine, sans song, sans singer and—sans end!
                            .—"Rubaiyat" (Fitzgerald trans.)
              Here's a sigh to those who love me.
                And a smile to those who hate.
              And whatever sky's above me
                Here's a heart for any fate!—Byron
      You're beaten to earth? Well, well, what's that?
        Be proud of your blackened eye!
          It isn't the fact that you re licked that counts.
            But how did you fight—and WHY?—Henley
         Ah, Love! Could you and I with Him conspire
         To grasp this sorry scheme of things entire.
           Would we not shatter it to bits—and then
         Remould it nearer to the heart's desire!
                           —"Rubaiyat" (Fitzgerald trans.)
   May duty ne'er divert us from our love nor love divert us
from our duty!                                    —Anon
Toasts                                                        201
               String the lyre and fill the cup,
               Lest on sorrow we should sup!—W. S. Gilbert

               To Pain—that it may never visit us!

             Over and over I'll sing this refrain—
            In parting let's think of our meeting again!

        That you may live to be old and full of mirth,
        It's people like you that we need on this earth!

            Come, fill my cup until it swim
            With foam that overlooks the brim.
            Who drinks the deepest? Here's to HIM!
                                           —John Cleveland

   To mother—the only one who could have borne me and
borne me!
                   Here's to baby—man to be—
                     May he be as fine as thee!
                   Here's to baby—girl to be—
                     May she be as sweet as thee!

           To the Colonel's lady and Judy O'Grady—
           They're sisters under their skins!
                                   —Kipling (Paraphrased)
          Here's to the groom with bride so fair.
          And here's to the bride with groom so rare!

          The cocktail is a pleasant drink.
          It's mild and harmless, I don't think!
             When you've had one, you call for two,
            And then you don't care what you do!
          At four I sought my whirling bed.
          At eight I woke with such a head—
            It is no time for mirth and laughter—
            The cold, grey dawn of the morning after!
                                            —George Ade
   To the have-beens, the are-nows—and the may-bes! Anon
  I don't care where the water goes if it doesn't get into the
wine!                                                —Chesterton
202                                      What Shall We Drink?
          To marriage—for its joys without its pains!

      Here's health to the maiden and health to the dame,
        And health to the gay little widow, the same;
      May the maid become dame,the dame widow, and then
        May the widow be led to be married again!—Anon

            Let's wreathe the bowl with flowers of soul.
              The brightest wit can flnd us.
            We'll take a flight to Heav'n tonight
              And leave dull earth behind us!—Anon

       Ho, a smile and a glass and a toast and a cheer
         For all the good wine, and we've some of it here!
       In cellar, in pantry, in attic, in hall.
         Long live this gay servant that laughs for us all!—Anon

       Once more fill a bumper—never talk of the hour;
       Our hearts thus united, old Time has now power!—Moore

              To dear old times and times to come
              If times to come have lots of rum!

        Toast we in brandy or whisky or wine.
        What matter the drink if it makes wit to shine?

                  Happy birthday to you
                    And many to be.
                  With friends that are true
                     As you are to me!

          Now, then, the songs—but first, the wine!
          The gods be with you, friends of mine!
                                          —Eugene Field
 Should you wish to find out if a man's a good fellow,
 His virtues and faults wiU appear when he's mellow!
                                                     —Neaves

               Beer, beer, glorious beer,
               Fill yourselves right up to here!
                  Make a good meal of it.
                  Drink a good deal of it.
                    Glorious, glorious beer!—Old Song
      Toasts                                                     203
        Kings wine makes gods, and meaner creatures, kings.
                                            —Shakespeare

      To woman, the only loved autocrat who elects without voting.
      Governs without law, and decides without appeal!  —Anon

             If drinking's a sin, I cannot help thinking
             Mankind have had sins independent of drinking!
                                                       —Neaves


                  We'll drink tonight with hearts as light
                    To loves as gay and fleeting
                  As bubbles that swim on the beaker's brim
                    And break on the lips while meeting!
                                              —Hoffman

                         Under the art of you.
                         Parcel and part of you.
                         Here's to the heart of you!
                                             —Richard Hovey

      Here's to the happy man: All the world loves a lover.
                                                         —Emerson


                 Here's to the bride that is to be,
                     Here's to the groom she'll wed.
                 May all their troubles be light as bubbles
                   Or the feathers that make up their bed!

                    To music, if it make us gay.
                    But not to music, if it make us pray!
V ■


                 To our Navy—may it never have to fight.
I                But if it fight, as well may be—
                 Our Navy—here's to victory!

               To them that lie in Flanders fields, a toast!
               The lads we loved so well—and miss the most!

      To the vanquished—for if they were not they'd be victors!
      Let's win the fight and then forget the battle that we fought,
      For vict'ry has its losses and vict'ry may be naught!
204                                     What Shall We Drink?
             Here's to a horse I can ride
               Here's to a book I can read,
             Here's to a dog by my side
               And a guest that I ever can feed.
             Here's to the girl of my heart
               And here's to the day she'll be mine,
             And here's to the days we set apart
               To toast all these things in wine!

         Here's to the eyes that are tender and gray.
           Here's to the eyes that are blue.
         Here's to the eyes that are black or brown.
           So long as the eyes speak true!
                                            —A. G. Hales

            Now I, friend, drink to you, friend.
              As my friend drank to me.
            And I, friend, charge you, friend.
              As my friend charged me,
            That you, friend, drink to your friend.
              As my friend drank to me;
            And the more we drink together, friend.
               The merrier we'll be!—Anon

             Here's to the eyes of the one I love.
                Here's to the one I trust—
             I do not love him because I will,
               I love him because I must!
                                     —A. G. Hales

While there's life on the lip, while there's warmth in the wine.
One deep health I'll pledge, and that health shall be thine!
                                             —Owen Meredith

         To our absent friends—and their quick presence!
           If distance lends enchantment to the view
           There's more enchantment nearer you!
                           Index
                        Applejack Specials
Apple Brandy                124             Honey Moon                 122
Apple Charlie Horse         125             Jack-in-the Box            120
Apple Cobbler               124             Maple Applejack            120
Apple Grof'                 124             Miami Beach                121
Applejack Highball          124             Missouri      _            122
Applejack Punch             125             New York Applejack         119
Applejack Rickey            125             New Yorker                 122
Applejack Sangaree.         125             Parisian Star              122
Applejack Sling             125             Princess No. i             122
Applejack Sour              125             Princess No. 2             122
Aviator Cocktail            125             Rocking Horse              123
Cape Cod Rainbow            126             Roulette                   123
COCKTAILS:                                  Santa Barbara              123
  Angel Face                120             Sherry-Applejack           123
  Apple No. 1               119             Sidney                     124
  Apple No. 2               120             Sweet Sonora No. 1         123
  Apple Fancy               120             Sweet Sorona No. 2         123
  Apple Dubonnet            120             Torpedo                    123

  Apple Grenadine           120                (For other Cocktails
  Apple Scotch              120                See Cocktail Index)
                                          Coffee Royal                 126
  Aviator                   125
  Cointreau Apple           121           Grape Fruit Highball         126
  Calvados                  121           HIGHBALLS:
  Country                   121             Applejack.                 124
  Couronne                  120             Grape Fruit                126
  Deauville No. i           121                (For Other Highballs
  Deauville No. 2           121              See Miscellaneous Drinks)
  Elixir                    121           Hildick Old-Fashioned        124
  Empire                    121           Jersey Sour                  126
  French No. i              121           Royal Fizz                   126
  French No. 2              122           Royal Frappe                 126
  Golden Dawn               122           Tea Royal                    126
                                   Beer
After Theatre               151           Fermentation Process         I49
Aging Beers                 149           Food Value of Beer            152
Alcoholic Content           153           Foods Suitable With         151-2
Apparatus Needed            148           Gingei- Beer Making          H9
"Bead" or "Head"        150- 153          Glasses for Beer            150-1
Bottling                149- 150          Goblets                       150
Brewing                     149           "Head" or "Bead"        150-153
Bridge (Beer at)        151- 152          Home Brewing            148-149
Buffet Luncheons            152           Informality of Beer         151
Coasters Permissible        150           Ingredients             149-150
Coldness Necessary          150           Light Supper and Beer        152
Colored Glassware for       151
                                          Luncheon and Beer            151
Corking                     149           Mugs                         150
                                   205
 206                                                        Index
                        Beer (continued)
Nutritive Value of         152      Solids in                  153
Outdoor Drinking           151      Steins                     150
Process of Making      149-150      Storing                149-150
Recipes for Making     149-150      Straining              149-150
Serving                    150      Supper With Beer           152
"Shells" for               150      When to Drink Beer         150
Siphoning                  149
                             Bishops
                 (See Miscellaneous Drinks Index)

             Care of Wines and How to Drink Them
Drinking Wine             146       Souring Wines             145
Dry Wines(Temperatures) 145-6       Sparkling (Temperatures). 146
Etiquette of Pouring      146       Storing                   145
Glasses—Should Be Thin.. 146        Sweet(Temperatures)....145-6
How to Hold Glass         146       Temperatures            145-6
Pouring for Guest         146       White Wines (Tempera
Red Wines—Temperatures 145-6         tures)                   145-6
Rules for Handling        145       Why HostPours to Self First 146
                            Cobblers
                 (See Miscellaneous Drinks Index)
                            Cocktails
Absinthe                    20     Club                         31
Admiral                     29     Coffee                       31
Alexander                   21     Coral                        21
Amber Dream                 14     Coronation                   17
Angel's Kiss                34     Daiquiri                     ig
AppleBlossom                22     Demi-Virgin                  25
Apple Brandy                24     Devil's Delight              34
Applejack                   27     Dry Martini                  n
Applejack(Old-Fashioned).   16     Dubonnet                     18
Arctic                      30     Dykaree                      15
Army                        29     Fancy Sour                   15
Bacardi                     33     Forty-second Street          18
Beau Brummel                29     Gin                          12
Bijou                       30     Gin Crusta                   34
Blackthorn              .   25     Golden Gate                  28
Boulevard (Brandy)          30     Gouverneur Morris            16
Boulevard (Gin)             22     "Hangover"                   32
Bordeaux                    21     Harv^d                       21
Boston Club                 22     Hawaiian                     26
Brandy                      II     Honolulu                     25
Brandy Crusta              34      Italian                      25
Brandywine                 29      Jack Rose..;                 17
Broadway                   30      Jersey                       24
Bronx                   13.•14     Knickerbocker                13
Caloric                     33     Lambs' Club                  16
Caruso                      23     Loftus                       16
Chevy Chase                 26     Manhattan                    19
Clover Leaf                 14     Manhattan Club Oyster        32
Index                                                                   207

                        Cocktails (continued)
Maraschino                    28      Savoy                              18
Martini                       10      Sazerac No. i                      17
Martini (Dry)                 11          Sazerac No. 2                  18
Marvel                        30          Side Car               •       14
Maxim                         26          Silver                         19
Merry-Go-Round                12      Sloe Gin                           28
Metropole                     33      Soda                               20
Mikado                        27      Sour (Fancy)                       15
Morris (Gouverneur)           16          Star                           28
Old-Fashioned                 18          Stinger                        23
Old-Fasbioned Applejack..     16      Tammany                            23
Orange Blossom                12      Tennessee                          13
Pall Mall                     22      Three Way                          33
Palm Beach Special            15      Tuxedo                             23
Perfect                       24      Vermouth                           19
Ping Pong                     24      Waldorf                            22
Pink Lady                     28          Washington Merry-Go-
President                     27            Round                        15
Princeton                     27      Whisky Crusta                      34
Ritz                          12      Yale                               23
Rob Roy                       31                 (For Other Cocktails
Rum Crusta                    33                 See Applejack Index)
Saratoga                      20


                               Coolers
                  (See Miscellaneous Drinks Index)
                          Cordial Recipes
Aniseed                     156     Orgeat Syrup                        154
Apricot Cordial Drink       155     Peppermint                          I55
Caraway                      156      Prunelle                          158
Cherry                       I54      Raspberry                         154
Coffee                       157      Ratafia (Cream).                  I57
Cream Ratafia                157      Rum Shrub Cordial                 156
Curacao                      I55      Solferino                         ififi
Lemon                        156      Strawberry                        15°
Lemonade Cordial             157          Vanilla                       i57

                                   Cups
Apple                         69      Claret Burgundy                    72
Ariadne Champagne             73      Claret (Hot)
Aristocrat                    69      Claret and Sherry              66-71
Bacchus                       68      Claret (Spiced)                   72
Burgport                      68      Crimean                            72
Burgundy                      67      Cup Aristocrat                     69
Cambridge                     69      Hock                               71
Champagne...._                64      Hot Claret                         67
Champagne (Ariadne)           73      Loving                             04
Champagne (Party)             68      Moselle                            66
Cider                         7°      Parisienne                         68
Cider (Curacao)               72      Party Champagne                ■ • 68
Claret                        65      Porter                             67
Claret a la Saltoim           71      Saltoun (Claret a la)              71
208                                                              Index
                         Cups (continued)
Sauterne                      70         Spiced Claret              72
Sherry                        66         Wine (General Recipe)      65
Sherry and Claret          66-71         Zeitlinger                 70
                               Daisies
                   (See Miscellaneous Drinks Index)

                               Fizzes
American Eagle               76          Old Fashioned Elks         77
Benedictine                  75          Radio                      78
Bourbon                      75          Royal                      77
Brandy                       74          Rum                        78
Elks (Old-Fashioned)         77          Rye                        75
Gazette                      77          St. Croix                  75
Gin                          74          Scotch                     75
Glasgow                      76          Silver                     75
Golden                       74          Sloe Gin                   75
Manhattan                    77          Whisky (General            75
Morning Glory                76
                                  Fixes
Applejack                    79          Rum..                      79
Bourbon                      79          Rye                        79
Brandy                       79          Scotch                     79
Gin                          78          Sherry                     79
Irish                        79          Whisky                     79
                                  FUps
Brandy                       93          Hot Whisky                 94
Brandy (Hot)                 93       Port (Hot)                    94
Gin                          94       Rum                           93
Gin (Hot)                    93       Rum (Hot)                     94
Hot Brandy                   93          Sherry (Hot)               94
Hot Gin                      93          Whisky                     9!
Hot Port                     94          Whisky (Hot)               94
Hot Sherry                   94          Wine                       93
          Foods to Serve With Wines and Liquors
American Dinner..         143  Glass to Each Course        141
Courses—Wines to Serve.141-3   "Perfect" Dinner No. i      141
Desserts—Wines to Serve.. 141  "Perfect" Dinner No. 2      142
Formal Meals              141  Restaurateur's Suggestions. 143
                              Frappes
                   (See Miscellaneous Drinks Index)

                             Glassware
Ale Glasses                 169       Champagne Glasses            166
Beer Glasses                168       Cocktail Glasses             164
Brandy Glasses              168       Cold Drink Glasses.          169
Burgundy Glasses            166       Color of Wine—Must Be
Capacities of Glasses...... 164           Seen                     163
Index                                                              209

                       Glassware (continued)
Colored Glasses       163-166-170      Liqueur Glasses             168
Colored Stems or Feet         166      Ornamented Glasses          168
Cordial Glasses               168      Pony Glasses                169
Courses—Glass for Each... 163          Pousse Cafe Glasses         169
Crystal Clearness Imperative 163       Removing Glasses            163
Decorative Effect             163      "Rolling" Glasses           164
Demi-Sec Wine Glasses.... i66          Sherry Glasses              168
Discord in Colors     166-168          SUver Glasses            163-168
Etiquette of Glass Service.. 163       Sizes of Glasses             169
Fancy Glasses                166       Sparkling Burgundy Glasses 166
Filigreed Glasses        163-168       Thinness of Glasses         163
Filling Glasses              164       Types of Glasses           165-7
Frappe Glasses               169       Whisky Glasses              169
General Hints            169-170       Wine Glasses for Red
Gold Glasses             163-168         Wines                   166-8
Harmony in Colors        166-168       Wine Glasses for White
Highball Glasses             169         Wines                   164-8
Light Wine Glasses       164-166
                    "Gum"—What it is...page 10
                      Highballs and Hot Drinks
                    (See Miscellaneous Drinks Index)
                                Juleps
Bourbon Mint                   85      Old Fashioned Mint           84
Brandy Mint                    84      Pineapple                    ^6
Champagne                      87      Pink Lady                    0°
Fruit Mint                     84      Rum                          86
Gin Mint                       85      Rye Mint                     85
Kentucky Mint                  84      Scotch Mint                  85
Mint                           83      Whisky Mint                  85
Mint (Old Fashioned)           84
                        Miscellaneous Drinks
Absinthe Frappe              no     Bismarck
Absinthe Suisse              113    Black Stripe
Ale (Mulled)                 m      Blue Blazer
'Alf and Alf                  118      Bon Soir (Goodnight)        108
American Bishop               102      Boston Cooler               107
Applejack Shake               116      Bourbon Highball            103
Applejack Sour                100      Brace Up^.
Apple Toddy                    99      Brandy Daisy                ^^7
Apricot Frappe                116      Brandy Mint Smash           nS
Benedictine FVappe            116      Brandy Sangaree             I05
Benedictine Sling             113      Brandy Shake                it"
                                       Brandy Shrub                II4
BISHOPS:                               Brandy Skin                 II8
  American                    102      Brandy Sling                II3
  Claret                      107      Brandy Smash                 99
  English                     loi      Brandy Sour                 I03
  Port                        106      Brandy Toddy                109
  Sherry                      106      Brandy Toddy (Hot)          icq
210                                                    Index
              Miscellaneous Driuks (continued)
Brunswick Cooler        111       Suissette              104
Burgundy Cobbler        loi       Victoria               108
Catawba Cobbler         105    Gin Daisy                 117
Catawba Syrup           108    Gin Highball              103
Chablis Cobbler         in     Gin Sangaree              no
Champagne Cobbler       116    Gin Shake                 116
Champagne Velvet        115    Gin Skin                  118
Chartreuse FraOTe       116    Gin Sling                 113
Cherry Cordial Srappe   117    Gin Sling (Hot)           117
Cider and Whisky        no     Gin Sour                  103
Claret Cobbler          100    Gin Toddy                 109
Claret (Mulled)         114    Gin Toddy (Hot)           109
Claret Sangaree         104    Golden Slipper            102
COBBLERS:                      Goodnight(Bon Soir)       108
  Burgundy              loi    Grenadme Frappe           107
  Catawba               105    HIGHBALLS:
  Chablis               in       Bourbon                 103
  Champagne             116      Gin                     103
  Claret                100      Irish Whisky            103
  Hock                  102      Mamie Taylor            104
  Madeira               102      Mint                    103
  Moselle               in       Minute Man              103
  Port                  loi      Rum                     103
  Rhine Wine            in       Rye                     103
  Sauteme               icq      Scotch                  103
  Sherry                102      Sloe Gin                103
  Still Burgundy        loi    Hock Cobbler              102
  Whisky                no     Horse's Neck              105
COOLERS:                       Horse's Neck (Stiff)      105
  Boston                107    Hot Brandy Toddy          109
  Bnmswick               m     Hot Gin Sling             117
  Saratoga              1x2    Hot Gin Toddy             109
Creme de Cocoa Frappe    108   Hot Old Fashioned Toddy.. 109
Creme de Menthe Frappe.. 107   Hot Rum                   112
DAISIES:                       Hot Sherry Toddy          no
  Brandy                117    Hot Tom and Jerry         114
  Gin                   117    Hot Whisky.               118
  Rum              u    118    Hot Whisky Toddy          109
  Sheiry                 n8    Irish Whisky Highball     103
  Whisky                117    Italian Lemonade          106
Dizzy Soi^              in      John Collins              98
English Bishop          101    Knickerbein               115
Float (Mississippi)     log    LEMONADE:
FRAPPES:                        Italian                  106
  Absinthe              no       Orgeat                  112
  Apricot               n6       Rhine Wine              104
  Benedictine           116    Madeira Cobbler.           102
  Chartreuse            116    Mamie Taylor Highball     104
  Cherry Cordial        117    Mint Highball             117
  Creme de Cocoa        108    Minute Man Highball       103
  Creme de Menthe       107    Mississippi Float         105
  Grenadine             107    Moselle Cobbler           in
  Sherry                n8     Mulled Ale                in
Index                                                        211
                 Miscellaneous Drinks (continued)
 Mulled Claret              114    SHRUBS:
 Mulled Porter              112      Brandy                  114
Negus (Port Wine)           loi      Rum                     108
"Next Morning" Suisse       107    Silver Sour                99
Old Fashioned Toddy       109      SKINS:
Old Fashioned Toddy (Hot) 109        Brandy            i     118
Orgeat Lemonade           112        Gin                     118
Port Wine Bishop          106        Rum                     118
Port Wine Cobbler           loi      Sherry                  118
Port Wine Negus             loi      Whisky                  118
Porter (Mulled)             112    SLINGS:
Porter Sangaree             in       Benedictine             113
Rhine and Seltzer           104      Brandy                  113
Rhine Wine Cobbler          in       Gin                     113
Rhine Wine Lemonade         104      Hot Gin                 117
Rock and Rye                no       Rum                     113
Rum Daisy                   118      Whisky                  113
Rum (Hot)                   112    Sloe Gin Highball         103
Rum Highball                103    Sloe Gin Toddy            no
Rum Shake                   116    Sloe Gin Toddy (Hot)      no
Rum Shrub                   108    SMASHES:
Run Skin                    118      Brandy                   99
Run Sling                   113      Brandy Mint             115
Rum Sour                    112      Whisky                  104
Rye Highball               103     SOURS:
SANGAREES:                           Applejack               100
  Brandy                    105      Brandy                  103
  Claret                   104       Dizzy                   in
  Gin                      no        Gin                     103
  Porter                   in        Rum                     112
  Sherry                   100       Silver                   99
Saratoga Cooler            112        Whisky                98
Sauterne Cobbler           100     Sport's Delight         106
Scotch Highball.           103     Still Burgundy Gobbler— 100
SHAKES:                            Stone Fence               nS
  Applejack                116     Stone Wall                ns
                                   Suisse (Absinthe)         113
  Brandy                   116     Suisse ("Next Morning")... 107
  Gin                      116     Suissette Frappe          104
  Rum                      116     TODDIES:
  Sherry                   116       Apple                    99
  Whisky                   116       Brandy                  109
Shandy Gaff                102       Brandy (Hot)            109
Sherry Bishop              106       Gin (and Hot)           109
Sherry Cobbler             102       Old Fashioned           109
Sherry Daisy               108       Sloe (lin (and Hot)     no
                                     Whisky (and Hot)        109
Sherry and Egg             118     Tom and Jerry (Hot)       114
Sherry Frappe              118     Tom Collins                99
Sherry Sangaree            100     Victoria FraMe            108
Sherry Shake               116     Whisky and Cider          no
Sherry Skin                118     Whisky Cobbler            no
Sherry Toddy (Hot)         100     Whisky Daisy              117
212                                                   Index

               Miscellaneous Drinks (continued)
Whisky (Hot)             Ii8     Whisky Smash             104
Whisky Shake             116     Whisky Sour               98
Whisky Skin              118     Whisky Toddy(and Hot)... 109
Whisky Sling             113     White Plush              117
                            Noggs
Arrack-Brandy             89     General Harrison         91
Baltimore                 91     Imperial                 92
Brandy-Arrack             89     Madeira-Brandy           88
Brandy Egg                88     New Year Bowl            90
Brandy Madeira            88     St. Croix                88
Brandy-Sherry             90     Scotch                   89
Christmas Bowl            90     Sherry                   90
Cider                     91     Sherry and Brandy        90
Cognac                    89     Sherry and Cream         go
Cream and Sherry          90     Whisky                   89

                        Pousse Cafes
American                  96    Pousse L'Ambassador       96
French                    95    Pousse Paris              96
Jersey LUy                97    Pousse Parisienne         96
L'Amour                   96    Saratoga                  96
L'Ambassador              96    CHAMPARELLES:
Manhattan                 97      Cherry Brandy            97
Marseillais               96
New Orleans               96
                                  Cognac Brandy            97
Paris.                    96      Peach  Brandy            97
Parisienne                96    SCAFFAS:
Pousse Cafe (Popular)     95        Cognac Brandy          97
Pousse L'Amour            96        Peach Brandy           97
                          Punches
Absinthe                  59    Century Club               62
Ale                       52    Champagne                  49
Alfonso                   41    Chatham Artillery          43
Arrack                    53    Cider                      50
Blossom                   42    Claret                     38
Brandy                    44    Claret Bridge              40
Brandy (Bridge)           44    Bridge Fruit               40
Brandy (Hot)              46    CocoamUk                   54
Brandy (Milk              54    Creme de Menthe            43
Brandy (Individual)       54    Curacao                    55
Brandy (Milk) (Party)     45    Debutante                  41
Brandy Port               45    Egg MUk                    60
Brandy Rum (Hot)          46    Frosted Rum                60
Brandy White              45    Fruit Claret               40
Bridge Brandy             44    Gin                        46
Bridge Burgundy           42    Gin Milk                   55
Bridge Claret             60    Gin (Pink)                 47
Burgimdy                  38    Holland House              58
Burgundy (Bridge)         42    Hot Bourbon                51
Canadian                  60    Hot Brandy                 46
Catawban                  42    Hot Brandy Rum             46
Index                                                               213

                         Punches (continued)
Hot Burgundy                  48     Philadelphia                    62
Hot Irish                     51     Piccadilly                      48
Hot Port                      48     Pineapple                       61
Hot Regiment                  58     Pink Gin                        47
Hot Rum & Brandy              46     Port Wine.                      47
Hot Rye                       51     Punch Imperial                  56
Hot Scotch                    51     Punch Romaine                   55
Hot Sherry                    48     Punch (Roman)                   57
Hot Whisky                51 & 59      Punch Royal                   61
Imperial                       56      Raspberry                     53
Imperial Brandy                61      Regent's                      49
Lemon                          57      Regiment                      S8
Manhattan                      38      Regiment (Hot)                58
Maraschino                     52      Rochester                     57
Maraschino (Fruit)             51      Romaine                       55
Milk                           54      Roman                         57
Milk (Egg)                     60      Royal                         61
Milk (Gin)                     55      Rum (Frosted)                 60
Milk (Old Fashioned)           56      Rum (Hot)                     59
Milk (Rum)                     55      Rum (MUk)                     55
MUk (Sherry)                   54      Rye I^isky                    5°
Mississippi                    62      St. Charles                   63
Nectar                         56      Scotch                        50
Old Fashioned Milk             56      Sherry Milk                   54
Orange                         57      Sinclair Lewis                4°
Orange Whisky                  51      Tip Top                     59
Orgeat                         60      Whisky                      5^
Oxford                         39      Whisky (Hot)             51-59
Parisian                       49      Whisky White                5^

                              Red Wines
Foods That Fit With           128      Napkin on Bottle in Serving 129
Foods to Avoid With        128         Shaking Bottle (Avom)      129
Glasses to Use With      128-9         Sweet Red Wines at Dinner 128
Light Red Wines at Dinner. 128         Temperatures for bervmg. 128-9
                                Rickeys
Bourbon                        81     Orange                         5^
Brandy                         81      Peach                         82
Cocoa                          81      Rum                   ••••
Dixie                          80      Rye
Gin                            80      Scotch
Grape Fruit                    82      Sloe Gin                      82
Grenadine                      82      Sour                          81
Irish                          81      Whisky                        81
                               Sangarees
                                Shakes
                                Shrubs
                                 Skins
           (For each of above see Miscellaneous Drinks Index)
 214                                                             Index

                                  Slings
                              Smashes
                                  Sours
         (For each of above see Miscellaneous Drinks Index)
                                  Toasts
Avoid Long Toasts                      Responding to Toasts
Banquet Toasting                       Short Toasts Best
Dinner Toasting                        Sitting Toasts             )I75
Guests Should Respond                  Standing Toasts       (
Host or Hostess Toasting    175        Toasts—What They Imply ]
Impron^tu Toasts                       Toasts—Suggested List
Lifting Glass in Toasting                   175 to end
Long Toasts(Avoid)                     When to Toast                 175
Memorizing Toasts
                              Toddies
                  (See Miscellaneous Drinks Index)

              White Wines and Miscellaneous Facts
Alcohol by Volume                 Nutritive Value of Liquors. 138
  Explained                 138  "Overproof"—What it
Alcohol by Weight Ex                Means                     140
  plained                   138   Principal Sparkling Wines. 136
Alcoholic Content Table.... 139  "Proof"—What It Means.. 140
Aperitifs or Appetizers(Dif      Pouring Wines—^Etiquette. 137
  fering Ideas)             134  "Reinforced" Wines           140
Colors of "White Wine".... 135        Rules of Wine Usage
Cordials(Value of)         138        Sparkling—Why ^Called. 137
                                                             136
Dry White Wines and Food 134           Specific Gravity of Spirits.. 140
Dry Wines(Why So Called) 136          Sweet Wines—Why So
Etiquette of Pouring       137          Called               136
Foods Suitable With      134-5        Sweet White Wines With
Foods to Avoid With        134          Desserts             135
"Fortified" Wines          137        Temperatures for               135
                                      White     Wines—Must     not
Light White Wines           135            Usurp Place of Red Wines 134
Nutritive Value of Wines... 137       Why Called Dry, Sweet,etc 136
                      Wine Making Recipes
          ^pui Wine..... 162          Flavoring Wines                163
Blackberry (How Made)..     160       Grape (How Made)               159
Cherry (How Made)           162       Raisin (How Made)              161
Dandelion (How Made)...     161       Rhubarb (How Made)             162
Elderberry (How Made)..     160

                      General Observations
Mcohol (Historic Facts).... 171       Bible on Alcohol               171
Ale(For Appetite and Elimi            Blood Building                 173
  nation)                  172        Colds (Hot Drinks For)...      172
Anemia                 173            Defense of Temperance...       172
Beer (For Appetite and                Fatigue                        173
  Elimination)         172            Fevers (Cold Drinks For).      173
Index                                                        2^
               General Observations (continued)
Geniuses (Drinkers Mainly) 173    Prohibition Laws—^Effect of 171
First Aid (AlcohoIUsefuI).. 173   Reformists                  171
Headache (Helpful Drinks) 173     Religion Founders and Ideas
Indigestion(Drmk Aids)... 173       onLiquor. .......          71
Jewish Talmud on Alcohol. 171     Snake Bite—Alcohol Help- -
Koran on Alcohol            171     ful Against.              173
Liberalism                  171   Talmud on Alcohol      .... 171
Medicinal Values of Alcoho-       Temperance (Fight For).... 171
  lie Beverages        172-3-4    Tonic Valiws            172
Overeating (Drink Aid)     173    Virtues of Wme....  • • ^71
Poisoning (Alcohol Aid            Wounds—Cleansed With
  A.gainst)                ^73      Alcohohc Wsshcs       ^73




                                                             ii

                                                                              j




                                                                           ■■■■ ■

                                                              '■    vV":
                   \




Ti

         \




                       /'




                                                 I
                                                 V


                                                     !■'




                                                       V
                            . • -   • ' 'i ■ -

                                             v. '



     ^   .


         • .f. -
            r




            r




t   s




        u
                        -   -   il.




              "\ often wonder what the
                Vintners buy
              One-half so precious as
      ^   I
                the Stuff they sell."
-/-
                     —Omar Khayyam




          A
