                                                                           *       ♦,




                                .M'--

                                        , « .


                                           ,1



                                                .', -       ■.


                       ,   '4

                                                                               •




                                                        t   • >        ^




                                                                 •    ,    ♦   *1*3




         fbR Home Use
       ^C'
                                                                     y.i '
                                                            . ■ ■.. :*         V'V




fI           A book of reference on many
i/ '     subjects
         SUOjCCvS relative
                  reiaiivus fo ihe fable.
                            luin^ioute.
'' M     Publisbed by f he propricfors of
             ANGOSTURA BITT£RS
.■ 'A




        pi
 iTor 1bome TElse

         This recipe book,containing
         other helpful and relative
         general information, ha^
         been compiled for private
         personal use.          Invaluable
         to the Host and Hostess.




                  {.Third Edition)




Angostura Bitters                            Ltd.
PORT»OF.SPAIN, Trinidad, BRITISH WEST INDIES
                                  ■ '"'J: ' ■ V       '
                         y.v
                         Tyi j •Ni'.
                                  ," fV-li• .'' , ■
                         ^t v. ,v:'( . M ',

                        fikm''
                        b<'' . ■




                         ^'.v

                                              1',
                          ■rv        ■.



S ,u-
i




            ^1 .    ■




           I

                *



 j '■ '■


,.: 1-. ^



:*■




               r^ . -
              K>rolo0ue
Every product which was first made over a hundred years
ago has in some way assisted in the making or marking of his
tory. The Story of Angostura Bitters—internationally, and
colloquially known as"Angostura"—takes usfrom the Battle
of Waterloo to make interesting connection with General
Bolivar, the debonair"Liberator of South America."

                      This is"the way"of it: Following
                      their discharge, with honour, from
                      the service in 1815 after their share
                      at Waterloo against Napoleon I,
                      Dr. Siegert, and two or three com
                      panions, kindred spirits, were minded
                      to try adventure further afield and
                      ultimately decided on South America
                      as the place for it. That was in
1820 when Bolivar was leading the revolutionary armies
of Venezuela, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru and Bolivia.

Attracted by the fight for freedom, the "adventurers,"
in various capacities, threw in their lot with Bolivar, who
later appointed Dr. Siegert Surgeon-General of the
Military Hospital at Guayana.
A newcomer to the equatorial region. Dr. Siegert was
unusually and professionally conscious of the enervating
influence of the climate. He turned for a palliative to
Nature's resources and made a scientific study of the
abundant health-giving herbs and plants of the Tropics.
Four years' research resulted in his origination in 1824
of a blend of aromatic and tonic bitters which he then
named Aromatic Bitters,
                                                      Page I
iPrologue....
                      When first circulating his discovery
                      for use, by his patients, by his
                      family and his immediate friends.
                      Dr. Siegert litde knew how wide
                      spread would become his fame. The
                      Bitters soon acquired such favour
                      among the public that he was en
                      couraged to devote himself almost
en|^ely to the preparation of his compound.
The fact that the initial demand was not created by any
form of advertisement, but grew up and spread spon
taneously from recommendation is a real proof of the
fundamental value of Dr. Siegert's discovery.
The Bitters were exported for the first time in 1830, when
a shipment was made to the British island of Trinidad,
and to England, and from that date organised manu?-
facture may be said to have begun.
Then it was that the "Aromatic" Bitters were renamed
  Angostura" Bitters, after the town of Angostura—-
Dr. Siegert's headquarters at that time.
It should be mentioned here that the name of the town
Angostura was changed in 1846 by the Venezuelan Congress
to that of Ciudad Bolivar.

In 1875              Dr. J. G. B.
Siegert & Hijos, which Dr. Siegert
had   founded, transferred their
operations to Trinidad on account
of the unsettled politics, punctuated
with revolutions, of Venezuela,
and established a factory on British
territory, having found—as the
memorial tablet on the wall of their

                                                    Page X
iptoloQue —
factory declares:** Under the really liberal Government of
Her Majesty the Queen, the protection they desired."
It will be seen, therefore, that the manufacture of Angostura
Bitters is a"British Industry," not only on the score of its
methods, but also in view of its location during the last
fifty-five years.
To-day ** Angostura "—meaning Dr. Siegert's Angostura
Bitters—is a name familiar the World over. In both
remedial and pleasurable ways it enters largely into the
daily round of an ever-growing number of users.
Indeed, "Angostura" has found such favour that for the
last few years well over a million bottles have been sold
each year.


The uses of                           originally intended for
  A                        "Angostura"werefew in number,
•^Vn^OStXir3,              and specific in character. To-
                           day's uses, though so wide, can
                ♦ ♦ ♦      be classed under three heads:

  —For immediate tonic effect as an "appetiser" and a
   strong aid to digestion .... and as a flavouring for
      drinks—alcoholic and otherwise.
 2.—To giye pleasurable, distinctive flavour and aroma
    to soups,sauces and other dishes.
 3—For Homely Medicinal purposes.
 It is with grateftil pride that we express our indebtedness to
"Angostura" users, of all stations and nationalities, for
 much of the information we are now able to present.
 With no previous advertisement beyond the excellence of
 the contents of the Angostura bottle and with no instructions
 other than those conveyed by the label, it has been left to
 Page 3
The Uses of "Angostura''
actual users to discover, in detail, many of the thousand-
and-one ways in which "Angostura" can be employed—
with added pleasure and health as a result.

In acknowledgment of the associations developed, during
the last century, by the use of Angostura Bitters, this book
has been produced with the idea of presenting a useful
fund of data to all who may be interested.
On the following pages we give many recipes embodying
the benefits to be obtained under heading i , ♦ ♦ ♦ •
and on Page 31 onward will be found valuable applications
of headings 2 and 3.
Accordingly, these pages are divided into two sections—
"Social" and"Domestic *'—and a thoughtfully arranged
index is given to each section to afford the reader reference
to all the items contained herein. (See Pages 44        450




                                                      page 4
         Social Section
         With the good, old-fashioned drinks as
         ^ basis, numerous fancy drinks have
         been evolved during the last twenty years.
         Even professional mixers of these drinks
         find it diffictilt to memorise more than a
         comparative few of them.
         It is hoped that Ladies and Gentlemen
         will be assisted in their entertaining by
         the memory-jogging directions for the
         correct preparation of standard drinks-
         new and old.

                       {Pages 6 to 30)




                                             • I




Page 5
                                               '' r-s.

                                                         if "i -iillM
"Mixed Drinks"
     A representative collection of Cocktails, good old-
     fashioned English Punches and Cups, sustaining
     beverages of the "Egg Nog' type, *' Long
     drinks and other mixed drinks:

     In order that all tastes shall be provided for, we
     have devoted a section to non-alcoholic drinks,
     showing how some new and attractive "soft"
     drinks may be prepared.

                               The mixing of Punches
     Method of                 is dealt with, separately,
     mixing:                   on page 14. There are
                             several ways of mixmg
    Cocktails and allied drinks. Excepting those
    instances where mixing instructions arc given with
    the recipe, it may be inferred that any one of the
    following methods can be employed:
    For instance, some prefer to use a Cocktail shaker.
    The"Standard"^cktail shaker (for home use)
    is a nickel or aluminium receptacle specially made
    for the vigorous shaking up and down of the
    ingredients.
    In the absence of a Shaker, a tall miTing glass or a
    jug may be used. When ice is an ingredient a
    fork is preferable to a spoon for stirring, as the ice
    is melted more quickly.      There is a "knack"
    of making a spoon do this, but it is possessed, with
    few exceptions, only by professional"mixers."
    A suitable strainer will complete the necessary
    equipment.
    As an^^occasional alternative to the miring fork or
    spoon, a "swizzle-stick" may be used. There
    are numerous types of"swizrie-sticks"available,
    most of which your Wine Merchant can procure.
    The one we are best acquainted with is the Natural
    West Indian "swizzle-stick," illustrated and des
    cribed on page 12. Another type is the"Mosser"
    shown alongside.




                                                 Page 6
Cocktails
It is felt that the following ledpes will be of real
service,inasmuch as they put at private disposal the
same procedure as that followed professionally.


Hints:
Before proceeding to enumerate the various Cock
tails it would perhaps be advisable to mention one
or two hints which need to be followed for success
ful results.

For our instructions we have taken the "wine
glass" as a standard of measurement, and, as
wineglasses vary so much in size, it should be
understood that the term "wineglass" represents
2-ozs. of liquid (this applies throughout this book).
An aluminium "Jigger" of approximately 2-oz.
capacity can be used for measuring if preferred.
The Cocktail glass itself must be sufficiently large
to permit the serving of a generous Cocktail and
at the same time not be more than three-quarters
full. In this way there is no danger of spilling—
and the participant is better able to enjoy the
"bouquet"in anticipation of the drink.
 Ice, when obtainable, should always be used, as it
 adds greatly to the excellence of the Cocktail.
 Cracked ice is usually preferable to crushed ice,
 as the latter is apt to dilute the ingredients.
 The syrup referred to in many of the recipes is
 sold by all chemists under the name of"simple
 syrup." It is but sugar dissolved in an equal bffik
 of water. It will keep good for any length of time
 and anyone can make it. Sugar will do equally well,
 but it is better to keep a bottle of the syrup handy,
 as it saves the time and trouble of dissolving the
 sugar (which will not readily dissolve in alcohol).
 In dispensing Cocktail drinks—Gin, Scotch and
 Irish Whiskies, Brandy, Runa and Vermouth are
 generally used as the most important ingredients,
 with Angostura Bitters as a necessary flavouring
 component.




  Page 7


                              'li r i
Cocktails.♦ ♦ ♦
          It is almost superfluous to add that in order to
          ensure the best results none but the best ingredients
          should be used.


          Any good brands of spirits are satisfactory in the
          preparation of Cocktails, but a word of warning is
          necessary as regards the Bitters, in consequence
          of the unscrup^ous way in which imitations of
         "Angostura"have^een foisted upon the public.

          None but the genuine Dr. Siegert's Angosmra
          Bitters should be used, and your usual wine-
          merchant or stores will supply you. Stress is laid
          on this point because it is chiefly to the Angostura
          Bitters 5iat the delicious flavour and tonic proper
          ties of the well-made Cocktail are due.

          Better to aescribe the individuality of"Angostura,"
          we quote the recent expression of one, well versed
          and with a most sensitive palate, who deliberately
          and with firm intention declared :—"A cocktail is riot
          a perfect cocktail unless it contains * Angostura.'"


                       A hint on Rum
         For manifold purposes, and pointedly so as an
         "extra blanket" in winter time, the right sort of
          Rum is a good thing to have handy.

          For^ that reason we suggest you may be'interested
          to learn of the existence of" Siegert's Bouquet"—a
          particularly fine, old. West Indian Rum."Siegert s
          Bouquet" costs a litde more than ordinary good
          Rum but is actually cheaper in use because its proof
          strength is so much higher.

          This brand is so good as to be a favourite in the
          very region where the best Rum comes froin.
          Although not yet in general circulation in this
          country, it can be obtained for you, readily? by
          your Wine Merchant from Henderson &
         (London) Ltd., Finsbury Court, Finsbury Pave-
          nient, London, E.C.z.




                                                       page 8
Cocktails ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
  ABSINTHE COCKTAIL                       CHAZ^AGNE COCKTAIL
Use shaker or mixing glass.               Use thin tumbler.
Three dashes Angostura Bitters;           One lump loaf sugar, saturated
three dashes syrup ; half wineglass
Absinthe.                                 with Angostura Bitters; one lump
  Fill with ice, mix well, and strain     Ice; one piece Lemon Peek
into a cocktail glass.                    Three parts fill with iced Cham
                                          pagne, stir with spoon and serve.
   BAMBOO COCKTAIL
Half fill shaker or mixing glass with        CHINESE COCKTAIL
fine ice.
                                          Half fill shaker or mixing glass
i wineglass Sheiry.                       with fine ice and add:—
i wineglass Italian Vermouth.
3 dashes Angostura Bitters.               3 dashes Angostura^Bitters.
   Shake or stir; strain into cock
tail glass. Serve.
                                          3 dashes Alaraschino.
                                          3 dashes Curagoa.
       BLACKTHORNE                        3 dashes Syrup.
         COCKTAIL                         I wineglass Rum (see page 8).
 Half fill shaker or mixing glass            Mix well, strain into a cocktail
 with fine ice.                           glass, add a cherry and squeeze
 i teaspoonful Syrup.                     lemon peel on top.
 I wineglass French Vermouth.
 1 wineglass Sloe Gin.
 3 dashes Angostura Bitters.              CLOVER CLUB COCKTAIL
   Shake or stir; strain into cock        Half fill shaker or mixing glass with
 tail glass and serve.
                                          fine ice.
                                          I teaspoonful Raspberry Syrup.
    BRANDY COCKTAIL
                                          3 dashes Angostura Bitters,
              (Fancy)
                                          i wineglass Dry Gin.
 Use shaker or mixing glass.
 3 dashes Maraschino.                     i wineglass French Vermouth.
 3 dashes Angostura Bitters.              White of one egg.
 2 dashes Orange Bitters.
  I portion Brandy.                          Mix well; strain into cocktail
                                           glass and serve.
    Fill with ice, mix, and strain into
 a cocktail glass, the rim of which
 has been moistened with a piece of          COUNTRY COCKTAIL
 lemon and dipped in powdered
  sugar.                                   Half fill shaker or mixing glass with
                                           fine ice.

      BRONX COCKTAIL                       I teaspoonful Syrup.
  Three-quarters fill shaker or mudng      4 dashes Angosttura Bitters.
  glass with fine ice.                     J wineglass Brandy.
  3 dashes Angostma Bitters,               I wineglass Port.
  i wineglass Dry Gi?-         ,
  ^ wineglass French Vermoum.              I Egg (whisked separately).
  i wineglass Italian Vermouth.              Mix well; strain, grate nutmeg
  I slice orange.                          on top and serve.
    Shake or stir well, strain mto cock
  tail glass and serve.




   Page 9
 Cocktails              ♦ ♦ ♦



EAST INDIA COCKTAIL                      MANHATTAN COCKTAIL
Use shaker or mixing glass,              Use shaker or mixing glass.
i full fine ice.                         3 dashes Syrup.
3 dashes Alaraschino.                    3 dashes Angostura Bitters.
3 dashes Red Curajoa.                    i wineglass Italian Vermouth.
3 dashes Angostura Bitters.              4 wineglass Whisky.
1 wineglass Brandy.                        Fill vsith ice, mix, :nd strain.
  Shake or stir well j strain into       Add a small twist of lemon peel.
^ydttail glass and serve with a piece
of twisted lemon peel on top.            MANHATTAN COCKTAIL
                                                        (Dry)
 FIFTY-FIFTY COCKTAIL                    Make the same as a Manhattan
Half fill shaker or mixing glass with    Cocktail, leaving out the syrup,
fine ice.                               and serve with an olive.
3 dashes Angostura Bitters,
i wineglass Dry Gin.                     MANHATTAN COCKTAIL
1 wineglass French or Italian Ver                   (Extra Dry)
mouth to taste.                         Make the same as the Dry Man
  Atix and strain into a cocktail       hattan    Cocktail,      using   French
glass.                                   Vermouth instead of Italian.

  GIN COCKTAIL (Fancy)                           MARTINI (Dry)
Use shaker or mixing glass.             Use shaker or mixing glass.
3 dashes Angostura Bitters.             i wineglass Gin.
3 dashes Syrup.                         J wineglass Italian Vermouth.
3 dashes Maraschino.                    Jr wineglass French Vermouth.
2 dashes Lemon Juice.                   3 or 4 dashes Angostura Bitters.
1 wineglass Gin.                           Add crushed ice and sh^e or
Fill :with icCj mix and strain into     stir well. Serve with small piece of
cocktail glass, the rim of which has    lemon rind or an olive as preferred.
been moistened with a piece oflemon
and lightly dipped in powdered                   MARTINI (Sweet)
sugar.                                  Introduce 3 dashes of syrup and
                                        proceed as above. This cockuul
  GIN AND ANGOSTURA                     should be served with a Maraschino
                                        cherry instead of lemon rind or
See under"Aperitifs"on page 13          olive.
^^ere this and a few other drinks of      The two recipes above represent
the same cliaracter are described.        the usual Martini." There are,
                                          however, many other versions of
                                          which the two following recipes
 GRENADINE COCKTAIL                       are examples.
Half fill shaker or mixing glass with
crushed ice.                            MARTINI COCKTAIL No.i
1 part Lemon juice.                     3 dashes Angostura Bitters.
3 parts Grenadine syrup.                i wineglass Gin.
6 parts Gin.                            J wineglass Italian Verrnouth.
A 3 dashes Angostura
            into cocktail glass.        Small piece Lemon Peel.
Add                  and serve.           Fill with ice; mix, and strain
                                        into a cocktail glass.
     IRISH COCKTAIL                     MARTINI COCKTAIL No.2
Half fill shaker or mixing glass with   4 dashes Angostura Bitters.
fine ice.
                                        i wineglass Gin.
4 dashes Angostura Bitters.             i wineglass Italian Vermouth.
i wmeglass Italian Vermouth.            I teaspoonful Sherry.
1 wmeglass Irish Whisky.                Small piece Lemon Feel.
  Mix; strain into cocktail glass         Fill with ice; mix, and strain
and serve.
                                        into a cocktail glass.




                                                                     Page JO
Cocktails ♦ ♦ •
   OYSTER COCKTAIL                       SIEGERT'S "BOUQUET"
Uie tumbler.                                         COCKTAIL
A few clashes Lemon Juice; one           Half fill shaker or mixing glass with
dash Tobasco Sauc:e; one tea-            fine ice.
spoonful Vinegar; a few dashes           2 wineglass Rum (see page 8).
Tomato Catsup; six Oysters with          Squeeze Lemon Juice to taste.
all their liquor.   Season to taste      3 dashes Angostura Bitters.
with pepper and salt. Mix, and
                                           Mix well and strain into cocktail
serve with small fork in the glass.
                                         glass.
PICCADILLY COCKTAIL
            (for 10 people)                 THISTLE COCKTAIL
Half fill shaker or mixing glass with    Use shaker or mixing glass.
fine ice.                                3 dashes Angostura Bitters.
I wineglass Rum (see page 8).            J wineglass Italian Vermouth,
I wineglass Gin.                         f wineglass Scotch Whisky.
1 wineglass Cherry Brandy.                 Fill with ice; mix,and strain into
2 wineglasses French Vermouth.           a cocktail glass. Add a curl of
2 dashes Angostura Bitters.              lemon peel.
  Mix well, strain into a cocktail
glass and serve.                            TUXEDO COCKTAIL
                                         Half fill shaker or mixing glass with
 RUM COCKTAIL (Fancy)                    fine ice.
Use shaker or mixing glass.              3 dashes Angostura Bitters.
3 dashes Angostura Bitters.              I teaspoonful Sherry,
3 dashes Syrup.                          i wineglass Gin.
3 dashes Maraschino.                     i wineglass Italian Vermouth,
3 dashes Lemon Juice.                       Mix well and strain into a cock
1 wineglass Rum (see page 8).            tail glass.
  Fill with ice,shake well,and strain
into a cocktail glass,the rim of which     VERMOUTH COCKTAIL
has been moistened with a piec:e of                     (Fancy)
lemon and lightly dipped in pow
 dered sugar.                            3 dashes Maraschino.             ''
                                         4 dashes Angostura Bitters.
                                         I wineglass Italian Vermouth.
     SEPTEMBER MORN
                                            Fill with ice, and strain into a
        COCKTAIL
                                         cocktail glass, the rim of which has
 3 dashes Angostura Bitters.             been moistened with a piece of
 The white ofan egg; the juice of half   lemon and lightly dipped in pow
 a lime; one teaspoonful of syrup ;      dered sugar.
 one wineglass Rum (see page 8).
   Mix well and strain into a fairly          WHISKY COCKTAIL
 large wineglass.                                       (Fancy)
                                         Use shaker or mixing glass.
    SERVICE COCKTAIL                     3 dashes Maraschino.
 Put 3 lumps of ice in a mixing glass.   3 dashes Angostura Bitters.
 3 dashes Angostura Bitters,             I wineglass Whisky.
  j wineglass Italian Vermouth.            Fill with ice and mix till very-
   wineglass Brandy,                     cold. Strain into a cocktail glass,
  i wineglass Whisky.                    the rim of which has been moistened
    Shake; strain into a cocktail         with lemon juice and lightly dipped
  glass and serve.                       in powdered sugar.




 Page II
        West India Swizzle
             This is an old-fashioned Cocktail, simple to make
             and very popular in the West Indies.
                            Use large mixing glass,
             I wineglass of Gin, Whisky, Brandy or Rum (see
               page 8), as preferred.
             3 or 4 generous dashes of Angostura Bitters.
             ^ to I teaspoonful of Syrup, as preferred.
             Pour these into mixing glass, add a little more than
             an equal quantity of cold water or cracked ice and,
             with a swizzle-stick, swizzle to a froth. Serve in
             a CocktaU glass or small tumbler.
             If ice is used, add also a little water. In this way
             the foam is created more qmckly and is more
             lasting.

             If preferred, this Cocktail can be served ' still,'
             i.e., not swizzled but well stirred.


                "SWIZZLE-STICKS"
             In the West Indies the Cocktail described above is
             mixed by the swizzle-stick method.
             The swizzle-stick (illustrated alongside) is a natural
             product of the West Indies. It consists of the
             dried stem of a plant having radiating branches.
                    When the stem is twirled rapidly between
                    the palms of the hands the forked branch-
                    ends induce a perfect mixture of drinks.
                              From time to time we have small
                              supplies of the natural swizzle-
                              sticks for disposal. When these
                              are available we are always pleased
                              to forward one,free, to those users
                             of"Angostura"who care to write
                             to the address of our Consignees
                             for Great Britain and Ireland.
                             (See page 43.)




                                                        Page i:j
                                                                      3
»v''.
Popular Aperitifs
    GIN flavoured with ANGOSTURA
Whilst the previous recipes each enjoy preference,
in greater or lesser degree, the following simply-
prepared and effective appetiser is held in almost
universal favour:
In a liqueur glass put z dashes of"Angostura"(more
if preferred) and fill up with Dry Gin. With Sweetened
Gin,3 or 4 dashes of"Angostura"make the best combina
tion.

From a mistaken sense of "finesse," some bar
attendants when mixing this drink will immediately
eject all the"Angostura"that will leave the glass.
This means that only a small proportion of the
bouquet and tonic value is retained.
When next you order this little aperitif, stipulate
that all of the "Angostura" be retained and you
will gain ike full pleasure and benefit.
 The old and ever-new favourite,"Gin flavoured
 with Angostura," has brought in its train other
 simple and comparatively inexpensive drinks; of
 these the following are becoming very popular:

 SHERRY flavoured with ANGOSTURA
 To one portion of dry Sherry, add 3 or 4 dashes of Angos
 tura Bitters. With other than dry Sherries 4 or 5 dashes
 per glass will give the best results.


  VERMOUTH (Italian) flavoured with
                  ANGOSTURA
 To get the most from this drink, 6 dashes of Angostura
 Bitters should always be taken . . . differentiation
 should be made between Italian and French Vermouth—
 the latter requiring only 3 or 4 dashes of"Angostura."


 BRANDY flavoured with ANGOSTURA
                           and
 WHISKY flavoured with ANGOSTURA
 To one portion of spirits, add 3 or 4 dashes of Angostura
 Bitters . . . adding table waters, as desired. In the
 case ofliqueur Brandy or Whisky,the drink can be prepared
 in the same way as that given above for Gin.




  Page 13
          Punches and Cups
               For mining Punches in quantities it is well to
               expend care on the choice of mixing bowls. En
               deavour to obtain the best porcelain-lined ware.
               In preparing Punches containing milk or eggs, the
               milk or eggs—the latter partially whisked—should
               be added very carefully and gradually, the mixture
               being stirred continuously. (When hot wines or
               spirits are present, they should be poured, slowly,
               over the milk and partially beaten eggs.)
               If each egg is broken into a separate glass before
               being introduced to the actual drink, there will be
               no danger of a bad or stale egg spoiling the rest
               of the ingredients.
               When all the ingredients of a cold Punch have been
               put into the mixing bowl, stir well with a wooden
               spoon or fork, preferably oak, and set the mixture
               in an ice box or very cold place, allowing it to stand
               not less than five hours, nor more than ten.

               Ltnporiani,.♦ When Champagne, ApoUinaris,
                                             ingredients
>"'   V        of Punches or Cups, they should not be added
               to the mixture imtil the last moment just before
               serving. Otherwise, the gas with which they are
               charged wotold escape and leave the drmk flat"
               and insipid.

               Do not, unless you prefer to, put ice into the basic
               mixture for cold Punches, as it is far better to
               apply an ice"surround." lu this way: Procure a
               serviceable vessel of the same depth as the mixing
               bowl. Broken ice can then be packed between the
               bowl and the containing vessel. If rock-salt is
               sprinkled over the surface of the ice, a freezmg
               effect much colder than that of p am i is o tained.
               Cracked ice can be
               lumps in a cloth and beating them with a hammer.
               In completion, and to give a decorative appearance
               to the Planch bowl, pin a white hnen cloth around



                                                           Page 14


                                     -      I'-i
Punches and Cups (contd.)
the outside of the containing vessel and arrange
colourful fruits, berries or leaves over the surface
of the ice "surround."

For a large party or reception it is advisable to
place 3 or 4 Punch bowls in convenient positions
and so avoid discomfort for your guests when the
contents arc in general demand.
Each bowl will, of course, be accompanied by a
Punch ladle and a sufficient number of Punch
glasses or cups and napkins.
 A reminder: Sugar or syrup can always be put
in but not taken out. In mixing, therefore, it is
best to sweeten progressively—according to taste.


   Individua." Portions of Punch
 It is not always desired that a Punch should be
 prepared in "bulk" or quantity. There are
 occasions when only one or two portions are
 required.
 There arc several simple recipes fot the quick
 preparation of this type of drink, and we give a
 selection of them on page i8.




                                                       ;   .j,
  Page 15
 Punches and Cups
     ARTILLERY PUNCH                              CAMBRIDGE PUNCH
         (For 30 people)
                                              In 2 quarts of milk, heat slowly i
 Use large bowl for mixing.                   wineglass of syrup, the peel from 2
 1 lb. Sugar or more to taste.                lemons and about a do2cn bruised
 Juice of 6 Lemons.                           bitter almonds. When the mixture
2 tablespoonfuls Angostura Bitters.           is well brewed, strain and allow to
 I quart Claret.                              simmer whilst the following are
 I quart Sherry.                              added, stirring steadily     all the
 I quart Scotch Whisky.                       while:
 I quart Brandy.
   Mix well, and ice either as in
                                              The whites of 3 Eggs, previously
                                              whisked in a little cold milk.
structed on page 14 or by pouring
into another bowl in which a block
                                              I pint Brandy.
of clear ice has been placed. Pour            I pint Rum {see page 8).
in I quart of Apollinaris and serve           I tablespoonful Angostura Bitters.
in punch glasses or cups.                       Sweeten further to taste, then
                                              mull the pimch to a froth and pour
                                              into a previously warmed bowl and
       BISHOP PUNCH                           serve immediately in hot punch
Roast an orange before a fire or in           glasses.
hot oven. When brown, cut it in
quarters and drop the pieces, with a
few cloves, into a small porcelain-
lined vessel, and pour in i quart                  CHAMPAGNE CUP
of hot Port. Add 2 teaspoonfuls               Use large glass jug.
Angostura Bitters and 6 lumps
loaf sugar.       Stir   well   and   let     I teaspoonful Syrup.
the mixture simmer over the fire             3 slices Orange.
for 30 minutes. Serve with nutmeg            3 slices Lemon.
grated on top in stem glasses.               I rind of Lemon.
                                             I slice Cucumber Peel.
 BLACK VELVET PUNCH                          I teaspoonful Angostiua Bitters,
                                             i wineglass Brandy.
        (For 10 people)                      i wineglass Maraschino.
i lb. white Sugar or more to taste.          i wineglass white Curafoa.
Juice of 6 Lemons.                           I wineglass Sherry.
I tablespoonful Angostura Bitters.           I quart Champagne.
I quart Guinness Stout.                      I bottle Soda Water.
I quart Champagne.                             Add 2 or 3 lumps of ice j_ orna
  Pour the Champagne and Stout               ment with fresh mint or fruit, and
into the well-mixed lemon juice,sugar        serve in tall champagne glasses.
Md"Angostura." Ice cold. Serve
in punch glasses dressed with fruit.

BROWN VELVET PUNCH                             CHAMPAGNE PUNCH
        (For 12 people)                      Put in a large bowl:
i lb. white Sugar, or more to taste.         2 tablespoonfuls of Syrup.
Juice of 6 Lemons.                           I tablespoonful Angostura Bitters.
I tablespoonful Angostura Bitters.           3 Oranges, sliced.
I quart Claret.                              3 Lemons, sliced.
I pint Port.                                1 Pineapple, sliced and quartered.
  Pack bowl in fine ice, and when           2 bottles of Champagne.
contents are very cold, add i quart         2 bottles of Soda Water.
of Champagne. Serve in punch                   Stir gently, add large lump of ice,
glasses or cups dressed with fruit.         and serve in glass cups.

                                  CIDER CUP
                         Proceed in exactly the same way as
                         for Champagne Cup, substituting
                         I quart of Cider for the Champagne



                                                                       Page 16
P
Punches and Cups(contd.^
        CLARET CUP                             HOT RUM PUNCH
Proceed in exactly the same way as         Pound to pulp, with a J lb. of white
for Champagne Cup, page i6,                Sugar,the thin peelings of2 Lemons
substituting 2 bottles of Claret for       and add the strained juice of 3
the Champagne.                             Lemons and a teaspoonful of
                                           ground Ginger. Mix well and put
      CLARET PUNCH                         into a fairly large, previously warmed
Put in a large bowl:                       pimch bowl. Add in this order :
3 tablespoonfuls Syrup.                    I pint Rum (see page 8).
I tablespoonful Angostura Bitters.
3 Oranges, sliced.                         I pint Brandy,
3 Lemons, sliced.                          i pint Sherry.
1 Pineapple, sliced and quartered.         I quart boiling water.
2 wineglasses Brandy.                         Mix well, sweeten further with
2 bottles Claret.                          Syrup to taste, and allow to stand
   Stir gently, add 2 bottles Apol-        near fire for 20 minutes. Serve in
linaris and serve in ptmch glasses         hot punch glasses with a little
 or cups.                                  nutmeg grated on top.
     EGG NOG PUNCH n
 Use a bowl of 2i gallons capacity.                MOSELLE CUP
 1 lb. fine white Sugar.
 20 fresh Eggs.                             Proceed in exactly the same way
   Separate the yolks and beat till         as for Champagne Cup, page 16,
 thin as water and add the sugar,           substimting 2 bottles of Moselle for
 mixing well with spoon. Then add           the Champagne.
 in this order:
 2 quarts Old Brandy.
 li pints Rum (see page 8).                       OXFORD PUNCH
 2 tablespoonfuls Angostura Bitters,        Slice thinly the peel of 5 Lemons
 ij gallons rich Milk.                      and 2 Seville Oranges. Pulp these
   Mix well with ladle, stirring con        peelings in a large earthenware jar
 tinually while pouring in the milk.        and add the juice of Lemons and
 Sweeten further with syrup, to             Oranges together with the juice,
 taste. Beat the whites of the 20           only, of 4 sweet Oranges. Add 6
 eggs to a stiff f^roth. Pour this froth    glasses Calf's Foot Jelly and stir
  carefully over the mixture. In            ffioroughly. Pour into the jar 2
  serving, dip out with ladle and put       quarts of boiling water and allow
  a little of the white on top of each      the mixture to stand near the fire
  helping, and sprinkle over with           for half an hour. Then strain into
  nutmeg. Serve in punch glasses.           a large bowl, previously warmed,
                                            and add:
    FISHERMEN'S PUNCH
                                            I pint Rum (see page 8).
            (For 8 people)                  I pint Cognac.
  Into a p'unch bowl pour :
  2 tablespoonfuls Angostura Bitters.       J pint Sherry.
  2i wineglasses Lemon juice.               1 wineglass Curagoa.
  4 tablespoonfuls Syrup or to taste.       2 tablespoonfuls Angostura Bitters.
  4 wineglasses Peach Brandy.               I quart Orange Shrub.
  2 wineglasses Cognac.
  2 wine^asses Rum (.see page                  Sweeten to taste (commencing
  3 pints ice water.
                                             with a wineglass of syrup). Stir
     Stir well, ladle into punch glasses     well, and serve in pimch ^sses.
   and serve.

             HOCK CUP                              SAUTERNE CUP
   Proceed in exactly the same way as          Proceed in exactly the same way
   for Champagne Cup, page                   as for Champagne Cup, page 16
   substituting 2 bottles of Hock for        substituting 2 bottles of Sauteme
   the Champagne.                            for the Champagne.




  Page 17
Individual Punches
       BRANDY PUNCH                          HOT \«^HISKY PUNCH
Half fill large tumbler with fine ice.     Dissolve a lump of sugar in a little
3 teaspoonfuls Syrup.                      hot water in an already warmed
4 dashes Angostura Bitterii                punch glass.
Juice of J Lemon.                          3 or 4 dashes Angostura Bitters.
                                           I wineglass Scotch Whisky.
i wineglass Rum (sea page 8),              I piece Lemon peel twisted over and
    wineglasses Brandy.                    dropped into glass.
I slice of Orange.                           Fill up with hot water, grate
I slice of Pineapple.                      nutmeg on top, and serve.
  MIh well; dress with fruit, and
serve with straws.
                                                    MILK PUNCH
                                           Half fill mixing glass with fine ice.
                                           I teaspoonful Syrup.
          GIN PUNCH                        3 or 4 dashes Angostura Bitters,
Half fill mixing glass with fine ice.      i wineglass Brandy,
a teaspoonfuls Syrup.
                                           i wineglass Rum {see page 8).
                                           Fill up with milk.
4 dashes Lemon jtiice.                       Mix and strain into tall, thin
4 or 5 dashes Angostura Bitters.           glass. Serve with a little grated
    wineglasses Hollands Gin.              nutmeg on top.
6 dashes Soda Water or Apollinaris.          This punch can be served hot by
                                           substituting water for ice, and by
  Shake well, strain into punch            heating almost to boiling point after
glass. Dress with fruit and serve.         the introduction of the milk.

    HOT IRISH PUNCH                                  PORT PUNCH
Dissolve a lump of sugar in a little       Half fill a large tumbler with fine ice.
                                           1 tablespoonful Syrup.
hot water, in a hot pimch glass.           4 dashes Angostura Bitters.
3 or 4 dashes Angostura Bitters.           2 dashes Lemon Juice.
I wineglass Irish Whisky.                  li wineglasses Port.
I piece Lemon peel (twisted).                wineglass Brandy.
                                             Stir well, dress with fruit, and
  Fill up with hot water; stir,            serve with straws.
grate nutmeg on top, and serve.
                                                TRINIDAD PUNCH
    HOT RUM PUNCH                          Put 2 cocktail glasses of fine ice
Dissolve 2 lumps of sugar in a little      into mixing glass or shaker.
                                           i wineglass Lime or Lemon Juice,
hot water in an already warmed             i wineglass Syrup.
punch glass.                               I wineglass Rtim {see page 8).
4 or 5 dashes Angostura Bitters.           4 dashes Angostura Bitters.
I wineglass Rum (res page 8).                When thoroughly mixed (and ice
I slice of Lemon with peel attached.       melted) strain and divide into two
                                           drinks, grating a little nutmeg on
   Fill up with hot water, grate           the top of each drink. Add a small
nutmeg on top, and serve.                  piece of Lime or Lemon peel.

                            WHISKY PUNCH
                     Use mixing glass halffull of fine ice.
                     2 teaspoonfuls Syrup.
                     4 or 5 dashes Lemon Juice.
                     4 or 5 dashes Angostura Bitters.
                     I wineglass Whis^.
                       Mix well and strain into punch
                      glass. Decorate with slice of Orange,
                      add 3 or 4 dashes of Cura9oa on top,
                      and serve.




                                                                          Page l8
I
     Egg Nogs, etc.
     Hints:
     When the ingredients include them, it is always necessary gradually
     to pour hot wine or spirits over eggs or cold milk—never the reverse.
     If the liquid is continually stirred whilst this method of mixing is
     proceeding, the eggs and milk will not curdle.

     Do not break an egg into a drink that is being mixed. By breaking
     it into another glass you vnll have an opportunity of detecting a
     doubtful egg ere further damage be done.

     PRECAUTION.—Before making up any of the following recipes,
     first carefully read through the instructions in order to become
     conversant with the exact procedure when actually making the
     different drinks.


               CLARET FLIP                          HOT EGG NOG
     Half fill mixing glass with fine ice.   After whisking i Egg, put it into a
     2 teaspoonfuls Syrup.                   mixing glass and add, stirring con
     4 dashes Angostura Bitters.             tinuously:
     I Egg (whisked separately),             2 teaspoonfuls Syrup.
     ij wineglasses of Claret.               4 dashes Angostura Bitters.
        Shake thoroughly, strain into a      i wineglass Rum {see page 8).
     punch glass, and sprinkle nutmeg        I wineglass Brandy.
     on top.                                   Fill up with hot milk, shake and
       This drink can be taken hot by        strain into a tumbler, and serve
     substituting water for ice, and by      with grated nutmeg on top.
     heating the whole slowly. Do not
     boil.
                                               IMPERIAL EGG NOG
                EGG NOG                      One-third fill mixing glass with fine
                                             ice.
     Half fill mixing glass with fine ice.   I Egg (whisked separately).
     I Egg (whisked separately).             I tablespoonful Syrup.
     I tablespoonful Syrup.                  4 dashes Angostura Bitters,
     3 dashes Angostura Bitters.             i wineglass Riun (see page 8).
     I wineglass Whisky, Sherry or Rum       I wineglass Brandy.
         (see page 8).                          Fill up with milk, shake well,
       Fill up with milk, shake well,        strain into a tiunbler, and serve
     strain into a tumbler, and serve        with a little nutmeg sprinkled on
     with grated nutmeg on top.              top.



                                                                                     -V'




    Page 19
   Egg Nogs, etc. (contd.)
         MULLED CLARET                          PRAIRIE OYSTER
  Put into a dish 4 lumps of sugar.        Into a wineglass, place about a
  2 dashes Lemon Juice.                    dessertspoonful of Lea and Perrins'
  4 dashes Angostura Bitters.              sauce, a raw egg, and pepper and
  }teaspoonful Cinnamon.                   salt to taste. To be taken mixed,
                                           or with the egg whole, as preferred.
  2 Qoves, bruised.
  4 Allspice, bruised.
  2 wineglasses Claret.                       RUM AND BUTTER
    Allow the compound to boil and
                                           Into a tumbler, drop one lump of
  simmer for 2 minutes, stirring           sugar and dissolve in a little hot
  continuously: strain and serve in        water. Then add:—
  tumbler.
                                           J wineglass Rum {set page 8).
                                           I wineglass hot water.
  MULLED         CLARET         AND        I lump Butter (walnut size).
          EGG (per person)                    Stir gently and serve with a little
                                           nutmeg grated on top.
  Into a dish of sufScient depth put
  the yolks of 2 eggs and, with i
  tablespoonful of toe white sugar,                     RUM FLIP
  beat to a toe batter. Then, separ
  ately, mix:—
                                           Half fill mixing glass with toe ice.
  2 Cloves, bruised.                        I teaspoonful Syrup.
  4 Allspice, bruised.                     4 dashes Angostura Bitters.
  1 good pinch Cinnamon.                   I Egg (whisked separately).
  2 wineglasses Claret.                     I wineglass Rum [see page 8).
  and allow to boil for 2 minutes.            Mix well,strain into a punch glass
    Pour, gradually, the hot mixture        and grate a little nutmeg on top.
  over the eggs, stirring all the while.      This drink can be taken hot by
  Strain and serve vnth a little grated     substituting water for ice, and by
  nutmeg on top.
                                            heating the whole, slowly. Do
                                            not boil.

              PORT FLIP
                                                     SHERRY FLIP
  Half fill mixing glass with toe ice.
  I teaspoonful Syrup.
                                            Half fill mixing glass with fine ice.
                                            I teaspoonful Syrup.
  3 dashes Angostura Bitters.
  I Egg (whisked separately).               4 dashes Angostiua Bitters.
      wiueglasses Port.
                                            I Egg (whisked separately),
                                             li wineglasses Sherry.
     Mix well; strain into punch or
  champagne glass, and grate a little          Mix well, strain into a punch
                                             glass, and grate a little nutmeg on
  nutmeg on top.                             top.
     This drink can be taken hot by            This drink can be taken hot by
   lubstitutiDg water for ice and by         substituting water for ice, and by
   heating the whole slowly. Do              beating the whole, slowly. Do
   not boiL                                  not boil.




                                                                              Page ao

y...jyuu'.'
     Long Drinks
     Generally speaking, long drinks, when served with ice in them,
     should be accompanied by straws. Drinks to be taken without
     straws usually have the ice strained away.
     If desired, most long drinks can be ornamented with fruits in
     season. When the drink requires to be strained, the fruit is added
     after straining.

        CLARET LEMONADE                                   QUENCHER
     Use large mixing glass.                  Half fill mixing glass with fine ice
    }tablespoonful sugar.                     and add:—
    6 to 8 dashes Lemon Juice.                4 dashes Angostura Bitters.
      Half fill with water and a little       2 teaspoonfuls Sjrup.
    ice, and mix or shake well. Pour          I wineglass Cognac.
    into a tumbler, add i or 2 pieces of        Break an egg into a separate glass,
    ice, ornament with fruits in season,      whisk and add. Mix well, strain
    and top it off with half a teaspoonful    into a pint glass, and fill up with
    Angostura Bitters and half glass of       a cool bottle of dry ginger ale.
    Claret.   Be careful to have the          This makes one of the finest long
    Claret flowing on top of Lemonade,        drinks known.
    and serve with straws.
                                                    SHANDY GAFF
            JOHN COLLINS                      This drink is a mixture of equal
    Into a tumbler drop 2 or 3 lumps of       parts nf ginger beer and ale; but
   cracked ice.                               lager beer can be substituted for ale
   I teaspoonful Syrup.                       if preferred.    . , ,        ,
   4 or 5 dashes Lemon Juice.                   This is best imxed when the parts
   4 or 5 dashes Angostura Bitters.           are poured into a large tumbler
   I wineglass Gin.                           together.
     Fill up with soda water and serve.
                                                      toddy (Cold)
          KNICKERBOCKER                      Place the peel cut from half a Lemon
   Half fill tumbler with fine ice and       in a mixing glass with a dessert
   add :—                                    spoonful of Syrup and a little Soda
   Juice of half a Lemon.                    Water. Mash the Lemon peel
   4 dashes Angostura Bitters.               until the extract from the skin has
  I tablespooiiful Syrup.                    been absorbed by the syrup and
  I slice of Orange.                         water. Then place a piece of ice in
  I slice of Pineapple.                      a small tumbler and pour a wine
  I wineglass Curafoa.                       glass of Whisky over it; then strain
  1 wineglass Rum {see page 8).              and add the Lemon peel essence,
    Stir well, and serve with straws.        sugar and water, and serve; or if
                                             preferred, use a large tumbler and
                                             fill up with Apollinaris or Soda
   MORNING GLORY FIZZ                        Water.
  Half fill mixing glass with fine ice.
  2 teaspoonfuls Syrup.                       TOM COLLINS (Brandy)
  4 dashes Angostura Bitters.                Into a tumbler drop 2 or 3 lumps
  4 dashes Lemon Juice.                      of cracked ice.
  I white of an Egg.                         2 teaspoonfuls Syrup.
  I wineglass of Whisky or Gm,               3 or 4 dashes Angostura Bittcra.
  as preferred.                              Juice of half a Lemon.
    Shake well, strain into a tumbler,
                                             2 dashes Maraschino.
 fill up with Apollinaris, Seltzer or        I wineglass Brandy.
 Soda Water, and serve immediately,            Fill up with Soda Water and
 as this drink should be taken while         serve.
 eflferveicing.




Page 21
 Non-alcoholic Drinks
 It is felt the following recipes will be helpful in extending the choice
 of non-alcoholic or"soft"drinks.

The arrangement of the ingredients in some, and the addition as a
flavouring of Angostura Bitters in all, account in great measure for
the added life,"bite"and zest.

Most of these drinks should be taken through straws, particularly
in those cases where ice is present in the liquid.

           BULL'S EYE                              CONCLAVE
Into a tumbler put the rind only        Into a large tumbler or punch glass
of I Lemon, bruising slightly with      place a piece of ice.
mixing spoon, and add :
                                        I tablespoonfvU Syrup.
I teaspoonful Syrup.                    I teaspoonful Angostura Bitters.
I teaspoonful Angostura Bitters.        I wineglass of Milk.
3 or 4 pieces of Ice.                     Fill the glass with Soda Water
  Stir and fill up, half wth Cider      and serve after a thorough stirring.
and half with Dry Ginger Ale.
Serve.
                                              EGG LEMONADE
                                        I Egg (whisked separately).
     CIDER COCKTAIL                     Juice of I Lemon.
           Use thin tiunbler.           Syrup or Sugar to wste.
One lump cut loaf Sugar saturated       3 dashes of Angostura Bitters.
with Angostura Bitters. One lump           Fill up with Soda Water and serve.
of Ice. One small piece of Lemon
Peel.

  Fill up with cold Cider, stir with            GREEN OASIS
spoon, and serve.
                                        Into a tmnbler put:

                                         I tablespoonful Syrup.
    CIDER FRUIT CUP
                                         I tablespoonful Lemon Juice.
  Almost fill a large glass jug with
                                         3 or 4 dashes Angostura Bitters.
Cider and add Angostura in the
                                         3 or 4 small pieces of Ice.
proportion of I teaspoonful to i pint
of Cider.                                  Almost fill with water and,mix
  Then add sliced fruit—apple,           thoroughly. Ornament with sliced
orange or lemon, banana and grapes       green grapes and sliced bananas,
and 2 or 3 pieces of ice. Serve in       apples or oranges. Serve with
goblets.                                 straws.




                                                                         Page aa
    i'i,
      Non-alcoholic Drinks (contd.)
            HORSE'S NECK                         PUSSYFOOT COCKTAIL
                                                 Use shaker or muting glass with a
     Into a tumbler put:                         little fine ice.
                                                 Juice of one Orange.
     3 or 4 lumps of ice.                        Juice of one Lemon or Lime.
     Long curl of lemon peel.                    Yolk of one egg (beaten).
     3 dashes Angostura Bitters.                 I teaspoonful of Apricot Syrup.
     Fill up with Ginger Ale.                    Sprig of Mint.
     Serve with slice of Lemon on top.           Angostura Bitters to taste.
                                                   Shake well and serve in'Cocktail
                                                 glass.
          JERSEY COCKTAIL
               Use thin tumbler.
                                                    ROCKY MOUNTAIN
                                                              COOLER
    One lump of Ice ; one teaspoonful
    Syrup;4 dashes Angostura Bitters j          Beat an Egg and pour it into a thin
    one piece Lemon Peel.                       tumbler and add:
                                                I teaspoonful of Syrup.
      Fill up with cold Cider. Stir well        4 dashes Angostura Bitters.
    and serve.                                  Juice of I Lemon.
                                                  Fill up with Cider, sprinkle
            LEMON FAN                           nutmeg on top, end serve.

   Put a few small pieces of ice in a
   tumbler and add:                                   SODA COCKTAIL
                                                Use a large glass.
   I teaspoonful Angostura Bitters.
   I small bottle Lemonade.                     3 or 4 lumps of ice.
                                                I teaspoonful powdered Sugar.
     Stir thorouglily and serve. This           4 dashes Angostura Bitters.
   simply-prepared drinlt is a really           I small bottle of Soda Water.
   satisfying thirst quencher.                  I slice Lemon with peel.
                                                  Stir with spoon and serve. In
                                                mixing, care should be taken that
           NOON SHADE                         the Soda Water does not run over
                                              the glass.
   Into a tumbler put:
  I teaspoonful of Syrup.                              TONIC COOLER
  1 tablespoonful Lime Juice.
  2 or 3 lumps of Ice.                        Twist a piece of Lemon rind over a
  I teaspoonful Angostura Bitters.            large tumbler and add:
                                              I teaspoonful of Angostura Bitters.
    Introduce in this order then add,         I large bottle of Tonic Water.
  pouring quicldy, a small bottle of          I slice of Lemon with peel.
  Dry Ginger Ale and serve. If                  Add 2 or 3 pieces of Ice, stir with
  the Lime Juice is sweetened, omit           a spoon and serve.
  the Syrup.

                              WITCH'S BROOM
                        Into a tumbler put:
                        I tablespoonful Syrup.
                       Juice of half a Lemon.
                          Stir well, then add x teaspoonful
                       Angostura Bitters and, pouring
                       QuicklVa s snisll bottle or Sods
                       Water. Serve. (Introduce items
                       in order given above.)




Pagt 33
                    Wines
Choice                    -Care-                   Serving
Although each person must have individual preferences and ideas
concerning wines, there are certain customs which are almost
universally observed by those who proffer and those who take
wines.

We have endeavoured to convey these customs, together with some
few general practical hints on wines, in such a way that will hold
interest for the Connoisseur and be helpful to those who would
know more of the accepted ways of general choice, care and serving.
The treatment of this subject could be as extensive as the Lure
of the Grape itself—consequently we have employed a condensed
form in commenting upon the following leading features ;


Choice:
                 Where experience and knowledge of vintages does
                 not warrant personal choice it is wiser to place
                 reliance on the advice of a reputed expert.
                 Arising out of the nature of their calling, established
                 wine merchants have pride amd pleasure in advisi*g
                 on the commencement or elaboration of a"cellar,"
                 and the experience gained by the purchaser in this
                 way would be constructive and not nearly so
                 expensive as might be the case if the new buyer
                 were left entir^y to his own resources.
                 Similarly, when dining out, the assistance of the
                 wine stewards of good class hotels and restaurants
                 is always valuable. In those cases where the wine
                 list does not extend the description beyond generic
                 terms or the names of wine districts, a good maxim
                 is to"gang warily."
                 Allied with a susceptible and critical palate and
                 the good memory that comes from real interest,
                 the knowledge gained in these ways forms an
                 excellent nucleus for the subsequent expression of
                  personal discrimination and preference.




                                                                  Page 24
   Wines: Choice—Care—Serving (conta.)
   When purchasing wines for home use it is advisable
   to order a quantity of half-bottles to satisfy those
   occasions when a half-bottle will be sufficient.
   Although a half-bottle costs, pro rata, a little more
   than a whole one, the extra cost has more to
   commend it than excess or waste.

   When wines are ordered in hotels or restaurants
  take particular notice of their brilliant clarity when
  served. If a wine be dull and lifeless its condition
 is in doubt, and it should be refused. If a wine is
 "bitty"with disturbed sediment suitable comment
  might be passed upon the probable careless hand
  ling.
  For frequent use in an informal way, the buying
  of beverage wines—Burgundy, Claret, Chablis, and
  the like—may be considered, reserving special
  vintages for formal,"state" and other epicurean
  occasions.



 Storage:
 All wines should be kept in a horizontal position
 whilst in storage, and only be allowed to stand in
 a vertical position for a few hours before serving.
 The white"smear"on port bottles should always
 be kept uppermost during storage.
 The horizontal position of full bottles, by prevent
 ing the corks from becoming"de-naturtlised"and
 unduly porous, keeps the wine "alive" and in
 perfect condition.
 Constant satiuration, combined with age, calls for
 great care when extracting corks from wine bottles.
 A corkscrew with a broad spiral is greatly to be
preferred—one of narrow meagre construction
would almost surely tear out the centre of the cork
and otherwise cause trouble and annoyance.
When opening wines first remove the foil, wire or
any other extraneous fitment and wipe the mouth
of the bottle before drawing the cork. The
contents would be marred by pouring them from
a stained or dirty bottle neck.



                                                           ■

Page 25
Wines: Choice—Care—Serving (confd.)
         Decanting:
         Stricdy speaking every wine worth drinking is
         worth being decanted, although this homage is not
         always paid. Without exception care in decanting,
         though seemingly unnecessary at times, should
         always be practised.

         The heavy based or massive cut glass decanters
         are usually assigned to port and sherry and the
         more dainty types to the lighter wines.

         In a way, this seems to be the natural outcome of
         the "decantibility" of both port and sherry—
         these being wines which can be decanted for use
         within any reasonable time.

         The lighter wines being in more occasional demand
         seem naturally to call for decanter-design in
         accordance with their"sprightliness."

         So that the natural colour of each wine may be
         allowed to show itself 'twere wiser to choose clear
         colourless glass for all decanters.

         A steady hand is essential in the decanting of all
         wines—particularly in the case of ports. (The
         white"smear," it should be noted here, to be kept
         uppermost during the decanting of port.)

         Once the pouring is commenced, the horizontal
         position of the bottle should be maintained until
         the contents have been transferred to the decanter
         or until cloudy liquid is perceived in the neck of
         the bottle.

         To wash decanters never use soap, soda or washing
         powders. One of the most thorough methods is to
         place small round shot and warm water in the
         decanter and shake vigorously, afterwards rinsing
         in cold water.




                                                     Page a6
                                                           1

  Wines: Choice—Care—Serving(contd,)
  Serving:
  Most wines should be served at round about the
  temperature of the room—Qaretj Burgtmdy and
  Chianti particularly. These should not be hur
  riedly warmed by being placed near a fire or
 immersed in hot water, but brought into the
  dining room, if possible, two or three hours before
  being required, so that they gradually acquire the
 same temperature as the room.

 White wines, Sauternes, Graves,etc., can be a shade
 colder than the temperature of the room—say, 60
 to 70 degrees. As a good general guide,"still"
 white and red wines to be at their best can be served
 at temperatures ranging from 60 to 70 and from
 65 to 75 degrees respectively.

 Qiampagne and other sparkling wines should be
 served very cold. When these are to be served, ice
 only suflScient wine for use at one time. Repeated
 idng, with the resultant variation of temperature,
 robs the wine of"life,"

 It is suggested that wineglasses, like decanters,
 should be crystal clear to give the eye the benefit
 of the bright winking colour of the tvine.

The glasses should, of course, be of thin"texture,"
and the shape, as far as possible, based on the
tulip-shaped sherry glass, for the wide-bowled or
wide-lipped glass allows a good deal of the aroma
of the wine to escape.

To enable the participant to extract the full value
from the aroma it is best to serve wines in glasses
of generous size and not to fill them to the brim.
If the glass is just over half-filled the fragrance and
essence is retained in the remaming unfilled part of
the glass. Moreover, a subtle compliment is con
veyed by this method of serving, both to the vintage
and to the guest.


                                                           ^'5



                                                          ■ '.1
Page 27
Wines: Choice—Care—Serving (contd,)
         Always choose fine glass with bright high lights and,
         when washing, see that hot water is used for cleans
         ing, cold water for rinsing and a soft"non-hairy"
         cloth for polishing.
         When serving Champagne and sparkling wines do
         not open the bottle until immediately before serving
         —otherwise the characteristic effervescence will be
         almost or entirely lost.
         The wide-bowled Champagne glass of one-time
         favour is now being superseded by the tulip-shaped
         glass—which is not so guilty, as was the former, of
         allowing the effervescence to escape, causing the
         wine to go flat quickly.
         Before going on now to outline the suitability of
         wines for different dishes it would be best perhaps
         to mention that tobacco and wines are not entirely
         in sympathy with each other.
         Sherry is said to be the only wine which is not
         robbed of some of its flavour by smoking. All
         other wines are susceptible and cannot thoroughly be
         enjoyed in company with pipe, cigarette or cigar—
         each of which should be reserved for coffee and
         afterwards.

         Order of precedence for the serving of wines :
         For informal meals where it is the intention to
         serve one wine throughout, Sauterne, Qaret,
         Burgundy, or Champagne are the ones usually
         chosen—with the proviso that Claret, owing to its
         dry charaCTer, is not"happy" when served with
         fish or a sweet dish.

         On formal occasions, when several wines are to be
         served, the lighter of the wines should take prece
         dence—so that the finer and heavier wines may be
         appreciated progressively.
         The list on the following page indicates a suggested
         sequence of wines for formal dinners and the re
         marks appended thereto extend certain of the listed
         indications.




                                                    Page 28
       Wines
       Usual Sequence for formal dinners
                   With HORS D'CEUVRES
       French    or Italian    Vermouth     flavoured       with
w      Angostura; Pale dry Sherry.
                        With OYSTERS
       Chablis; Graves or dry Sauterne, preferably the
       first named.

                           With SOUPS
       Sherry or Madeira

                           With FISH
       Chablis ; Graves; Sauterne or Hock (white).

                        With ENTREES

♦      Claret; Burgundy or Chianti

                         With ROASTS

%      Fine red Burgundy or Old Qaret .          . . .
                           With GAME
       Champagne

                         With PASTRY
       Madeira (cool)                                   •     •




                          With FRUIT
       Malaga; Port or Tokay

                         With COFFEE
       Liqueur Brandy; Benedictine or other liqueurs.

       For a quiet litde dinner of four or five courses it is
       frequent practice to serve two wines . . . Sherry
       with the soup and fish and Sauterne, Hock, Claret
       or Burgundy with the following courses.
       Do not serve fine wine with a salad or with dishes
       in which vinegar is present.




       Page 39

!' ^
Wines (contd.)
           Some people have a preference for fine Claret with
           Game and it may be mentioned*that this same wine
           is also an excellent companion to the more flavourful
           cheeses.

           Champagne should always be iced in the bottle.
           Ice should never be introduced to the wine.

           In conclusion : All good wines deserve delicate
           treatment. When they are consumed in copious
           draughts it is safe to say they arc not being
           appreciated as they should be.
           The true wine-lover extracts by sight, scent and
           taste all that the Grape has to offer.




                                                        Page 30
          "Domestic" Section
           The following pages are devoted to the
           collation of a series of "Angostura"
           uses in the home.

           Though this side of Angostura Bitters
           is, as yet, comparatively little known it is
           hoped that, upon acquaintance, apprecia
           tion will be earned by the distinctive
           flavour-effect of "Angostura"and by its
           tonic helpfulu®^^ iu many homely little ills.




                                                           ■i
                                                           iNf



Pa e 31
Fruit Dishes, Jellies, Ices, etc*
         "Angostura"introduces a delightful possibility by
         way of tonic and flavour addition to fruits and fruit
         dishes.
         The following suggestions will be very attractive to
         Jtnost palates, and afford an added and healthful
         enjoyment not to be satiated by continued indul
         gence.
                In some of these recipes we list the
                ingredients and give, underneath, the
                method of procedure. We mention this
                in a precautionary way, as in those cases
                the whole of the instructions should be
                read before mixing is commenced.

                            FRUIT MOULD
         In a separate basin, make a lemon or an orange jelly (see
         page 33). Stand a mould in water, and dip thin slices of
         fruits, almonds or pistachios in the jelly just before it
         begins to set and arrange on the bottom and sides of the
         mould according to some design. Carefully add a spoonful
         or two of the jelly to hold the nuts or fruit in place and allow
         to set. Then add fruit and jelly alternately to fill the mould,
         taking CMe that each layer is firm before adding another
         one. Sliced bananas, grapes skinned and seeded, sliced
         cherries, figs cut in shreds, peaches, apricots and orange
         slices front which the membrane has been removed, either
         singly or in combination are good. Serve with whipped
         cream or custard.

                             FRUIT SALAD
         The addition of a few drops of"Angostura"to the ever
         popular Fruit Salad will effect a subtle, delicate, and
         pleasing distinction.

                           GRAPE FRUIT
        With a table knife cut the grape fruit in half, crosswise.
        With a grape fruit knife, specially made for the purpose,
        remove the pips and disengage the fruit in each"slice"
        from the surrounding peel and membrane. Served in
        this way in the entire half, the loosened slices can readily
        be extracted by a spoon. A little before serving sprinlde
        each half with fine sugar and add 4 or 5 drops of
        "Angostura" on top.
                                 GRAPE ICE
        To ij lb. of grapes add 2 lb. of sugar and IJ pints of water,
        and place over a slow fire, skimming and stirring contin
        ually. Bring to the boil and pass through a ^e sieve,
        leaving skin and pips behind. Squeeze the juice of 3
        lemons and i orange into the mixture and allow to cool.
        When cold add 2 teaspoonfuls of Angostura Bitters and
        freeze in the usual way. If this is to be served in glasses
        add the stiffly whisked whites of 4 eggs when the mixture
        is about half frozen. Sufficient for 10 or 12 persons.




                                                             Page 33
     Fruit Dishes, Jellies, Ices, etc» (contd,)
                          LEMON ICE
     To the juice of 5 lemons and I orange add the grated rind
     of 3 lemons, 2 lb. of sugar and i quart of water and place
     over a slow fire stirring imtil the sugar is thoroughly
     dissolved and the peel infused. Remove from the fiire
     and strain. Allow the mixture to cool, add 2 teaspoonfuls
     of Angostura Bitters and freeze in the usual way. If this
     is to be served in glasses add the stiffly whisked whites
     of 4 eggs when the mixture is about half-frozen. Sufficient
     for 8 or 10 persons.


                        LEMON JELLY
     To ij pints of water add i pint of lemon juice, 6 oz. of
     lump sugar, 2 oz. of leaf gelatine and the shells and slightly
     beaten whites of 2 eggs. Bring to the boil and simmer for
     10 minutes. Cool slightly and add li teaspoonfuls of
     Angostura Bitters. Strain through a fine scalded cloth.
     Serve as required when cool. Quantity ij pints. If
     preferred, packet jelly can be used, adding"Angostura"
     in the proportion of i teaspoonful to i pint.


             MACEDOINE DE FRUITS AU
m-                      "ANGOSTURA"
     If using fresh fruits prepare a syrup. Take i lb. of loaf
     sugar, I quart of water, place on stove and bring to boil.
m    When cold, add 2 teaspoonfuls Angostura Bitters. Place
     fruits in a glass or china dish and pour syrup over. This
     is very nice to eat with sponge fingers or Genoese cake
     cut into fingers and sugared over. Tinned fruits should
     be treated in the same way, except use syrup from fruits
     in place of prepared syrup.

                             MELON
     A few (hops of"Angostura"with melon will add a new
     and delicious flavour. Over each portion of melon sprinkle       I I
     sugar to taste followed by a few drops of"Angostura."

                        ORANGE JELLY
     To I pint of water add i pint orange juice, 4 02. liunp
     sugar, 2 oz. leaf gelatine and the juice of 2 lemons. Bring
     to the boil and simmer for 10 minutes. Cool slightly
     and add i teaspoonful of Angostura Bitters.           Strain
     through muslin or fine sieve. (Orange jeUy is not cleared
     as this would spoil the flavour.)

                     STEWED PRUNES
     Before stewing these in the usual way and after the primes
     have been soaked for 7 or 8 hours, add i teaspoonful of
     Angostura Bitters. The usual proportion or Angostura
     is I teaspoonful to i lb. of primes. Thu can, or couKe,
     be acljusted to taste. To most palates this new fl^ourmg
     for prunes gives an entirely new character to this old-
     fashioned dish.




     Pag* 33
    Fruit Dishes, Jellies, Ices, etc* (contd.)
                            "ANGOSTURA" ICE CREAM
                    Whisk 3 eggs with 4 oz. of sugar and add gradually, stirring
                    well, I quart of boiling milk. Pour into saucepan and heat
                    slowly until mixture thickens. Stir well, do not allow to
                    boil. Add 5 teaspoonfuls of Angostura Bitters and
                    Vanilla Essence to taste. Strain and when cold freeze in
                    the usual manner. This recipe produces a "new ice
                    cream that will be the envy of your friends. Five tea-
                    spoonfuls of"Angostura"are right for i quart of milk.
                    Less or more in ratio according to the quantity of milk.
                    When ice cream with the usual vanilla, lemon, orange or
                    chocolate flavour is, of necessity, supplied from an outside
                    source, the delicious and "new" flavour can still be
                    achieved—by sprinkling"Angostura" over each portion
                    of ice cream.




                                                                                   #


V                                                                       •jir'.'




         VT         . •
                    -




                                                                       Page 34
          . -Vv'"
      Puddings, Sweet Dishes, etc.
      The following recipes will serve as a guide to the
      many similar in which "Angostura" can be
      included as a flavouring agent. With some of these
      dishes a sauce is usually served when, if preferred,
      tlie sauce instead of the dish can be flavoured by
      "Angostura." (See recipes on page 37.)
                    CHRISTMAS PUDDING
      As every Housewife has her own method of making ^e
      festive Plum Pudding we content ourselves with suggesting
      the amount of"Angostura"necessary to add an exquisite,
      distinctive and new flavour: One teaspoonfifl of
      "Angostura" to every ten pounds of ingredients is the
      quantity usually added—more, of course, to taste if
      preferred.
      The same proportion of "Angostiura" will give an
      equally pleasing flavour to Mince-meat.

                      APPLE CHARLOTTE

      To the juice of 1 lemon add i teaspoonful of AngostiM
      Bitters and stir thoroughly. Then peel, core and slice
      2 lb. of apples and fill a buttered pie dish with alternate
      layers of apples—sprinkled with lemon juice and sugar—
      and thin slices of bread and butter—the last layer being
       bread and butter. Ckiver with greased paper and bake in
       a moderate oven for just under an hour.


                       CHERRY PUDDING
      Put I lb. of stoned cherries, i pinch of cinnamon,2 table-
       spoonfuls of water and 3 tablespoonfuls of castor sugar
       in a jar. Put the jar into a pan of boiling water and cook
       the cherries until they are really tender.
       Mix, separately, 3 oz. of flour to smooth paste with 2 table-
       spoonfuls of milk, add i gill of milk and after well boiling
       add i teaspoonful of Angostura Bitters and 2 oz. of castor
       sugar. Let this mixture cool, and add the previously
       beaten yolks of 3 eggs,the grated rind of J a lemon and the
       stiffly whisked whites of the eggs. Put a layer of cherries
       in the bottom of a buttered mould, then a layer of the
       mixtiue and repeat tmtil the bowl is full. Cover with
       greased paper and bake in a moderate oven for about
       45 minutes. Serve with sweet sauce.
ill
                          FIG PUDDING

       Mix, well,6 oz. of finely chopped suet,4 oz. of flour,4 oz.
       sugar, 4 oz. breadcrumbs, good pinch of sdt, a pinch of
       nutmeg and 8 oz. of finely chopped figs. Beat 2 eggs^d
       add i pint of milk to which J teaspoonful of ^gost^
       Bitters has been added. Pour this gradually into ^he d^
       ingredients, mixing thoroughly. Place in a greased basm
       and steam for 2J hours. Serve with sweet sauce to taste.




       Page 35


                                                                       iiiBiiidi* I
Puddings, Sweet Dishes, etc. (^contd.)
                        LEMON MERINGUE
        Put I 02. butter, 2 oz. castor sugar, J pint of milk, i tea-
        spoonful of Angostura Bitters and the grated rind of 2
        lemons into saucepan. Boil, then simmer for 15 minutes
        and pour, stirring all the while, over the beaten yolks
        of 2 eggs. Crumble 2 sponge cakes and with the juice of
        2 lemons add to the mixture. Stir well and pour into a
        dish previously lined with short crust. Decorate the
        edges with the pastry and bake in a moderate oven until
        the mixture is set. Then cover with the sti£3y whisked
        whites of the eggs and sprinkle generously with castor
        sugar. Replace in oven imtil the meringue hardens and
        becomes slightly browned. Serve hot or cold.
                         PEARS AND RICE
        To J lb. of rice add i pint of milk, 2 oz. castor sugar, a
        pat of butter, a pinch of salt, and the grated rind
                                                       |    of a
        lemon. _ Cook slowly tmtil the rice is tender, cool slightly
        and stir in the previously beaten yolks of2 eggs. Complete
        the cooking and press the mixtiure into a flat-topped roxmd
        mould and turn out on to a hot dish. Rapidly boil the
        syrup from i tin of preserved pears until about hsjfremains
        and add J teaspoonful of Angostura Bitters. Put in the
        pears ^d let them become thoroughly heated, then arrange
        them in a heap on top and around the rice, adding sjnrup
        as_ desired. SprinWe with castor sugar and cover with the
        stiffly whisked whites of the eggs. Sprinkle heavily with
        rastor sugar and bake in moderate oven until the meringue
        IS hardened and slightly browned,
                       ANGOSTURA TRIFLE
        Slice 6 stale sponge cakes in halves putting raspberry jam
        between top and bottom. Arrange compactly in a fairly
        wide glass dish. Next put a J teaspoonful of"Angostura"
        in a wineglassful of sherry, mix and pour evenly over the
        sponge cakes. Arrange on top a neat mound of ratafias
        or macaroons and cover with a cupful of custard (see
        page 37). Thoroughly whip J pint of cream and lay it
        gently on the_ contents of the dish and decorate with
        angelica, cherries and shredded almonds. Prepare not less
        than 2 hours before serving.
                       VICTORIA PUDDING
        Mix 3 oz. of flour, 4 oz. breadcrumbs,8 oz. finely chopped
        beef suet, 2 oz. grated peel (mixed), 3 oz. dried cherries
        cut in quarters, 3 oz. sugar and add i lb. finely chopped
        apples. Beat 3 eggs and add 2 tablespoonfuls apricot
        jam and J gill of milk, or cream. Mix well, stir thoroughly
        into the dry ingredients and beat all well. Pour into a
        buttered mould, cover with greased paper and steam for
        about 2 hours. Serve with a suitable sauce, flavoiurcd with
        Angostura Bitters.
                       VIENNESE PUDDING
        Well beat the yolks of 4 eggs. Heat J pint of milk and add
        sufiflcient caramel (see page 37) to make it a deep brotvn
        colour, then gradually pour the mixture, stirring all the
        while, over the beaten yolks. Blanch, shred and bake
        I oz. almonds and mix with 5 oz. white bread dice, 3 02.
        sultanas, 3 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. of finely shredded candied
        peel. Stir in the milk and egg mixture and 3 tablespoonfuls
        of sherry to which J teaspoonful of Angostura Bitters has
        been added. Cover and allow to stand for an hour.
        Then turn into a buttered mould, steam for about 2 hours
        and serve tvith suitable sauce.



                                                            P<^e 36
       Sauces, etc*
             WHITE SAUCE FOR PUDDINGS
m-                     (Rich)

       Mix to a smooth paste i dessertspoonful of cornflour and
       a little milk. Put i pint of milk into a saucepan, add a
       pinch of salt and bring to the boil. Pour gradually over
       the cornflour paste, stirring. Return to the saucepan,
       add i teaspoonful of Angostura Bitters, sweeten to taste
       and simmer gently, stirring continuously for 5 minutes.
       Lemon juice to taste can be added if desired. Quantity:
       Just over }pint.


             WHITE SAUCE FOR PUDDINGS
                              (Ordinary)
       With 2 tablespoonfuls of milk mis I tablespoonful of com-
       flour to a smooth paste.     Boil J pint of water and pour
fHp    gradually over the cornflour, stirring. Return to saucepan
       with 1 tablespoonful of white sugar and boil for 10 minutes,
       stirring continuously. According to the pudding with
 Jgi   which the sauce is served, add i teaspoonful of Angostura
       Bitters or lemon juice as preferred. Quantity ; i pint.


                             CARAMEL

       Put I lb. of white sugar and 2 tablespoonfuls of water in
       an iron saucepan and stir over the fire until the mixtiue
       becomes dark brown. Bring to the boil, add 3 gills of
       water, stir until boiling point is reached, and add J tea
       spoonful of Angostura Bitten. Simmer vmtil the con
       sistency of syrup is arrived at. Allow to become cold and
       bottle for subsequent use.


^                             CUSTARD

       Mix to a smooth paste i teaspoonful of cornflour with a
       little milk. Add I pint of milk and i teaspoonful of Angos-
       tura Bitters. Simmer slowly, stirring continuously, for
       4 or 5 minutes and add 2 oz. of sugar. Allow to cool a
       little, add i egg (previously beaten). Heat again, gently,
       and stir continuously for a few minutes. Do not let
       mixture boil nor thicken unduly. Allow to cool and
       serve as required.




       Page 37
Soups, etc.
       It will be found that the addition of 3 or 4 dashes
       (or more to taste) of Angostura Bitters will impart
       an imusually piquant flavour to many gravies and
       soups—particularly meat soups. Here we give a
       few recipes of soups with which "Angostura"                       m
       can be used to great eflfect.

                            OXTAIL SOUP
       Cut an oxtail into short lengths and cover with cold water.
       Add a little salt and bring to the boil; strain and return
       to the saucepan; add i carrot, 4 turnip, i onion, a small
       strip of celery if available, a flavouring of parsley, thyme,
       bay leaf, 4 peppercorns and a dessertspoonful of Angostura
       Bitters, or more, to taste. Add about 5 pints of second
       stock or water, simmer gently for 4 hours, keeping the.
       pan covered. Strain, put the meat aside and when the
       stock is cold remove the fat.     Clear with the white and
       shells of 2 eggs, strain and repeat, serve with pieces of the     ^
       tail and diced carrot and turnips. (The larger pieces of
       tail can be served with a thick sauce.)
                                                                         *
                         MUTTON BROTH
       Remove the fat from ij lb. of neck of mutton and cut
       into small pieces. Fill a stewpan with a quart of cold
       water and add the meat and bones, a little salt, a table-
       spoonful of pearl barley which has been blanched, and
        bring slowly to the boil. Skim well and simmer for an
       hour, then add i carrot, 4 turnip, i onion and a small
       strip of celery, all cut into dice, and simmer very gently
       for 2 hours. Strain and remove the fragments of bone
       before returning the vegetables to the pan. Add a dessert
       spoonful of "Angostura," or more, to taste. Bring to the
       boil and sprinkle in a little chopped parsley.

                       RABBIT SOUP (White)
        Cut I rabbit into small joints and place in a stewpan,
        cover with 3 pints of stock and i pint of water, bring to the
        boil and skim well. Add 4 oz. of lean bacon, i onion, a
        little celery cut small, and a bimch of herbs to taste, simmer
        until the meat is tender (about i4 hours) and remove the
        bunch of herbs j melt i oz. of butter and mix with i oz.
        of dour, stir in 4 pint of milk and boil. Pour this into the
        soup and add a teaspoonful of "Angostura"or more, to
        taste. Season vyith salt and pepper. Cream may be
        added if desired.




                                                            Pagt 38
Soups, etc* (^contd.^
                   OYSTER SOUP

Cut I lb. knuckle of veal into small pieces and put into
1 quart of cold water, add an onion and a bay leaf and
simmer gently for about three hours, strain, and when cold
remove the fat. Remove the black skin from i lb. of
filleted plaice and simmer the fish in a quart of cold water
until reduced to shreds and rub through a fine sieve.
Simmer the hearts of i8 oysters in half a pint of the fish
stock, add the liquor of the oysters, strain and put aside.
Mix the veal and fish stock and bring to the boil. Melt
2 oz. of butter, stir in li oz. of flour and cook for a minute
or two, add to the hot stock and stir until boiling. Then
add i pint milk, oyster liquor, anchovy essence and a
dessertspoonful "Angostura"or more, to taste. Season,
put the oysters into the boiling soup just before serving
but do not cook—and stir in i pint of cream.


                    JUGGED HARE
As soon as the hare is received the entrails, liver, etc.,
should be removed; after doing this, wipe and pepper the
inside well, and hang up the hare. When required, skin
and truss it for roasting—half roast it, basting continuously.
 Half an hour to an hour is necessary according to age.
 Then cut the hare into small pieces and place them in a
 stew jar with an onion stuck with cloves. Add pepper
 and salt and lemon juice and pour over sufficient stock
 to cover. Put a lid on the jar and allow the contents to
 simmer for about zjto 3 homs. Then take out the pieces,
 placing them in a hot dish, and to the gravy in the jar
 add a glass of port and a teaspoonful of "Angostura"or
 more, to taste, and more seasoning if required. When
 about to boil strain the gravy over the hare and serve as
 quickly as possible. Forcemeat balls may accompany
 the hare. Red currant jeUy is served separately.




  Page 39
Beverages for Invalids
                            APPLE WATER
       2 or 3 cooking apples, remove the skin, core and slice and
       pour over them a pint of boiling water. Cover and allow
       to stand until the apples are almost pulp, then strain, add
       I teaspoonful of Angostura Bitters and sweeten to taste.
       Serve hot or cold as preferred.

                         BARLEY WATER
       Cover 2 oz of pearl barley with cold water and boil for
       a minute or two and strain. Then put barley in a Jug and
       add 3 lumps of sugar, the pared rind of J lemon, and
       I pint of boiling water. When cold, strain and add i
       teaspoonful of Angostura Bitters. Can be served with
       soda water, if desired.

                            GRAPE JUICE
       Pour I pint of water over 2 lb. of grapes. Simmer slowly
       for 5 minutes. Strain through cheese cloth and add I
       teaspoonful of Angostura Bitters. Sweeten to taste and
       serve cold.


                            LEMON WATER
       Put the thinly pared rind of i lemon, the strained juice
       of 2 lemons and sugar to taste, into a jug. Add i pint of
       boiling water, cover and allow to stand until cold. Strain
       and add i teaspoonful of Angostura Bitters. Serve hot or
       cold as preferred.

                            LINSEED TEA
       Wash and drain i oz. of whole linseed and simmer for
        Ihour in i pint of cold water with J oz. ofliquorice, 2or 3
       lumps of sugar and the pared rind of J small lemon.
       Strain and stir in the juice of J lemon and i teaspoonful of
       Angostura Bitters.


                      OATMEAL WATER
       Stir to a smooth paste 2 tablespoonfuls of fine oatmeal in
       a teacupful of cold water. Then pour into 2 pints of
       boiling water. Stir well, add a pinch of salt and boil for
       30 minutes. Strain, add i teaspoonful of Angostura
       Bitters and serve hot or cold as preferred.

                            TOAST WATER
       Toast a slice of bread brown and hard—not burned.
       Cover with i pint of cold water and soak for about an
       hour. Strain and add 2 or 3 dashes of Angostura Bitten.




                                                        Pag$ 40
Healthful Hints
That"Angostura"is, in itself, a boon to health
is proved by the hearty word of support given to
it by the medical profession.
Here is a letter, typical of m^y and many another,
sent to us by a leading practitioner :
     "Permit me to express to you my appreciation of
     "the value and usefulness of your Bitters which
     "have been of inestimable service to me in thou-
     "sands of cases of illnesses during the 15 years
     "since I have been practising. I never go without
      "'Angostura' and no home should be without it.
      "It often is a panacea."

 When the virtues of"Angostura" in the eradi
cation of physical discomfort are known, when
"Angostura's" beneficent eflfea on the general
health is experienced—the following uses will be
appreciated as fully as they deserve.
"Angostura," the tonic properties of which add such
flavour and zest to social drinks, can safely and
beneficially be employed as a domestic cordial.
Here are some of the uses discovered, and profited
by, through the 100 years of"Angostura's"life.
GENERAL TONIC.—Angostura Bitters are of
great value as a tonic where the vitality is a little
low and a toning up is necessary. Taken with a
little fruit juice before meals "Angostnra" has a
marked action on the appetite and digestion.
COLDS.—When wet or cold a chill can often be
warded off if a tablespoonful of"Angostura" is
taken in half a cup of warm water, sweetened to
taste. Dissolve the sugar in the warm water before
adding the"Angostura."
INFLUENZA.—Taken in the same way as for
colds, "Angostura" is decidedly beneficial in
lessening the lowering efiect of this malady.
PAIN.—A valuable use of"Angostura," known to
ladies is the alleviation of internal pain which
may occur at certain times. A teaspoonful to a
tablespoonful of"Angostura"m warm sweetened
water is very comforting. In obstinate cases great
relief can be obtained by repeating the dose once
or twice at half hourly intervals.




Pagt 41
Healthful Hints (contd.)
             ERRORS IN DIET: A tablespoonful of Angos
             tura Bitters with a little sweetened water will do
             much to relieve ill effects following the partaking
             of unusual, heavy or rich foods.

             FLATULENCE: To counteract this and allied                 «
             troubles, try i to 2 tablespoonfiils of Angostura
             Bitters in half a cup of previously sweetened warm
             water. Acute abdominal pains arising from similar
             causes can often be removed by this simple, handy
             remedy.

             COLIC:     Used in addition to the treatment
             necessary and prescribed by the medical adviser,
             an equal quantity of"Angostura"and sweetened
             hot water will afford speedy relief and will stimu
             late the return of energy.

             DYSENTERY: Those who have resided or are
             about to reside in tropical countries will be all the
             better armed by a knowledge of"Angostura's"
             helpful effect.

             The following letter is illuminating:
                  "It may be of interest if I tell you that some
                  "years ago in India I was cured by your Bitters
                  "of a severe attack of what I knew afterwards
                  "to have been dysentery, and I was fortimate in
                  "having the bottle in my sideboard, as it was past
                  "midnight. I was alone in my brmgalow and
                  "medical help was miles away. I took one dessert-
                  "spoonful and I had no further trouble."

             MALARIA,in the first stages, can often be success
             fully combated by taking a liberal draught of
             *' Angostura" and hot water. During all stages
             "Angostura," combined with sugar, forms an
             excellent"mask"for the flavour of quinine.

             SEA-SICKNESS: While there is no specific
             for this afldiction, a little "Angostura" and
             sweetened tepid water or fruit juice, taken before
             meals on board, will frequently prove an effective
             preventive—and almost invariably "Angostura"
             taken in this way will definitely reduce the ill
             after-effects if sea-sickness should be contracted.




                                                             Page 43


       ..i
                  Where to obtain "Angostura"
w"
                  Below we illustrate the unpretentious
                  bottle which can be seen in almost every
                 licensed establishment and which can be
                 obtained for home use in half or whole
                  bottle size from your usual wine and spirit
                  merchant, or any licensed store.
                  There is only one genuine"Angostura"—
                  Dr. J. G. B. Siegert's—it being identified
                  by the signature on the bottle wrapper, see
                  the illustration below.

                  Take care to get Aiigostura Bitters, whose
                  tonic properties and aromatic flavour are
                  not possessed by any other Bitters.
m



                                          lUiTTUSi
                                          ittB.8iefienTii




                                                                                 'I    f




           SoU Consignttsfor Great BrUain & Ireland, British Colonies & Dependencies
          Henderson & Co. (London) Ltd., Finsbury Court, London, E.C.2




     Pagt 43
                                  Index to
                  Social Section
ANGOSTURA                                  LONG DRINKS
History of pages 1-4                       Claret Lemonade                page 21
Where to obtain                  page 43   John CoUins                     „ 21
                                           Knickerbocker                   ,,   21
                                           Morning Glory Fizz              ,,   21
aperitifs                                  Quencher                        ,,   21
Gin                                        Shandy Gaflf                    „    21
                                 page 13
Sherry            '                        Toddy (Cold)                    ,,   21
                                      13   Tom Collins                     «    21
Vermouth
                                  «   13
Brandy
                                  »   13
Whisky               ]            »   13
                                           NON-ALCOHOLIC
                                           DRINKS
COCKTAILS                                  Bull's Eye                          22
                                                                          page 22
                                           Cider Cocktail                       22
Hmts on Mixing              pages 7-8      Cider Fruit Cup
                                                                           SS

                                                                           3)   22
                                           Conclave                        33   22
                                           Egg Lemonade                    33   22
Blackthome                                 Green Oasis                          22
Brandy      !!!."! ""                      Horse's Neck
                                                                           33

                                                                                23
Bronx     ]
          |]]                                                              33

                                                                           33   23
Champagne     !!!!!!!!                     Lemon Fan                            23
Chinese              !.'!!!!!'             Noon Shade
                                                                           33

                                                                           33   23
Clover Club ..                             Pussy Foot Cocktail ...         33   23
Country                                    Rocky Mountain Cooler                23
East India ...                             Soda Cocktail
                                                                           S3

                                                                                23
Fifty-fifty..!!!!!!!!] i m                                                 33

                                                                                23
Gm (Fancy)                                 Witch's Broom
                                                                           33

                                                                                23
Gin and Angostura                                                          33


Grenadine....
Irish       !!!!!!                         MIXED DRINKS
Manhattan" !                               Method of Aiixing              page 6
Manhattan (Dry)'!!
Manhattan (Extra Dry)!!!!                  PUNCHES
Martmi(Dry)                                Hints on Mixing, etc...pages 14-15
Martini(Sweet)"!!                          Artillery Punch            page 16
Martini(No. i)                             Bishop Punch                „ 16
Martini(No. 2).                            Black Velvet Punch              ,, 16
Oyster                                     Brown Velvet Punch              „ 16
Piccadilly ...!!!!!!!!!!'                  Cambridge Punch                 „    16
Rum (Fancy)                                Champagne Cup                   ,,   16
September Morn !!!!!!!!                    Champagne Punch                 »    16
Service                                    Cider Cup                       „    16
          Bouquet ...!.!!!                 Claret Cup                      „    i
                                           Claret Punch          » • ••    M    I
Tuxedo !!!!!!!!!!                          Egg Nog Punch                   ,, i
^™outh (Fancy) ...!!!!                     Fishermen's Punch               „ i
Whisky(Fancy)                              Hock Cup                        Si   I
                                           Hot Rum Punch                   „ I
EGO nogs, etc.                             Moselle Cup
                                           Oxford Punch                    „ I
Hints ..                                   Sauteme Cup                     „ i
Claret Flip                         19
Egg Nog                           » ^9     PUNCHES—Individual
HotEggNog";;:;;;                 " It      Brandy Pimch                   page 18
Imperial Egg Noe                 "         Gin Punch                            18
Mulled Claret                    " It      Hot Irish Punch                      18
Mulled
Port    Claret^d'Egg""""
     Flip                 " 20
                     ■ •• "                Hot Rum Punch                        18
                                           Hot Whisky Punch ....                18
Prairie OysVei'"!;;;;            " 20      Milk Punch                           18
Rum and Butter           i*'" " 20         Port Punch
Rum Flip         :                » It     Trinidad Punch
                                                                                18
Sherry Flip                       ;; H     Whisky Punch
                                                                                18
                                                                                18


                                                                     Page 44
h


       Index to Social Section (Contd.)
      SWIZZLES                             WINES
       Swizzle Sticks           page 12    Choicej Care, Serving pages 24-30
                                           Wines for Formal Dinners, page 29
      West India Swizzle         ,, 12     Wines for Informal Dinners ,, 29




                                 Index to
                     Domestic Section
      ANGOSTURA                            HEALTHFUL HINTS
      History of              pages 1-4                   {Contd.)
      Where to obtain           page 43    Colic                     page 42
                                           Diet—Errors in             „    42

      BEVERAGES                            Dysentery                  „    42
                                           Flatulence                 „    42
      FOR INVALIDS                         General Tonic              ,, 41
      Apple Water  page 40                 Influenza                  „ 41
      Barley Water                   40    Malaria                    ,, 42
      Grape Juice ...               40    Pain (Hint for Ladies) ... „ 41
      Lemon Water..                 40     Sea Sickness               „ 42
      Linseed Tea ..                40
      Oatmeal Water.                40    PUDDINGS,
      Toast Water ..                40    SWEET DISHES, etc.
                                          Hints                      page 35
     CUSTARD                              Apple Charlotte             „ 35
     Flavoured with Angostura, page 37    Cherry Pudding              „ 35
                                          Christmas Pudding           „ 35
                                          Fig Pudding                 ,, 35
     FRUIT DISHES,                        Lemon Meringue              „ 36
     JELLIES, ICES, etc.                  Pears and Rice              „ 36
                                          Trifle(" Angostura ")       „ 36
     Fruit Mould               page 32    Victoria Pudding            „ 36
     Fruit Salad                „ 32      Viennese Pudding            „ 36
     Grape Fruit                » 32
     Grape Ice                  „ 32
     Lemon Ice                  >, 33
                                          SAUCES, etc.
     Lemon Jelly                « 33      White Sauce (Rich)       page 37
     Macedoine de Fruits        «   33    White Sauce (Ordinary) .. „ 37
     Melon                      „ 33      Caramel                   „ 37
     Orange Jelly               „ 33
     Stewed Primes              „ 33
                                          SOUPS,etc.
     Angostura Ice Cream        ,, 34
                                          Oxtail                     page 38
                                          Mutton Broth                 gg
     HEALTHFUL HINTS                      Rabbit Soup                „ 38
     Angostiua—Virtues of .... page 41    Oyster Soup                  3^
     Colds                      w   41    Jugged Hare                „ 35,

    Page 45
.*1




                         f
              ,X .




      ■   .




                     -xx ■'-   ■•ii*Tr^ if>1   '•y't
    ■ ■ ^




/




T 'f
    ii


                       i.:i/nn: -'iia




            ■ ■M-i-i
            =        -■ •.■■ ■ ■'■• • r - ,. f - ..-T                                        -^             .
            ,■'■ '■ •- t ■ ' .,.r                                        ■-.• ■ v.M   , /.        . -fttf v'iV.
                                                       *^. T




ft ■•                                                                                                             .   i*




H '
^1' .
■-■1
                                                                                '
                                                                                      >■
                                                                                      I- .        «
                                     .t
                              •r          ■         . >t


                     u    .    ..             V*.                                      ' ' 'fv .jy,                        i--
                               'fN                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                           f, .. •'
        f         •,i V




                                                                     -iv ' ■
                                   St '        '       ,       ■ *
