    CONTAINING the Correct
    Recipes for FIVE HUNDRED Cock-
    tails and Mixed Drinks known and
    served at the world's most famous
    Brass Rail before Prohibition; to-

    tablished formulas for Cocktails and
    Other Beverages, originated while /
   ' rohibition was in effect. Thy
    w le Flavored with dashes          f
    Hist
    dote a     Serve
    Illuminati




      THE
1llifbor
BAR                     OOIZ
           Books by
    Albert Stevens Crockett:
                        •
 THE OLD W A LDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK
 AU the cocktails of pre-Prohibition and Repeal,
 aJJd bow to make them. Pronounced by com·
 ptteJJt authoritiu the bu t and most ustfol book
 of iu aort evtr dt viatd .    Nrw Edition, 177
 pp. ; llluatraud; $2.00.     By mail or txpreu
 $2 . 15.
            PEACOCKS ON PARADE
 Th• 11ory of America's Agt of Strut, tht
 Gor1Jedll• Prriod berwern the World'• Pair and
 tht War, and of the Grand, Gaudy and
 Grott.aque Strutt t r.s themselvu. most of them
 known prraooally to the author hcrt and in
 Europe.    Lauded by rniewers from Coal! to
 Coaat. 31 + pp.; illu1trated with rare pkturu;
 $3 . 50; by mail or express, $3 . 65.

     WHEN JAMES GORDON BENNETT
        WAS CALIPH OP BAGDAD
Pronounced by critict here and abroad, a "Great
Pact Romanct of Jc111mali1m."     The 1tory of
a boy"• aspirations to become a newtpaper ma.a
and bow th<•< wrrc fulfilled; aJJd hia adven·
turrs here and abroad while workio11 dirtctly
undtr th• tcctntric proprietor of the old Ntw
York Hrrald. +1+ pp.; illuatrated; $2.00; by
mail or exprcH, $2.15.

         REVELATIONS OP LOUISE
A Narrative of a S1ran11e Paychical Adventnrc
that befell the author and hia family d11rio11
aix weeks of the aummcr followio11 the death af
hi• only da1111httr. 23+ pp.; with two illaa-
tration•: $2.50; by mail or exprcH, $2.65.

        OLD WALDORF BAR DAYS
The story of a unique American "Imtitution,"
and of th• notable, nouworthy and nondHcript
fi1111ru that patronized it.    Alao 11i•in11 the
origin of many drioka. Bca11tif11l example of
printing and biodin11. Out of Print. A few
copies remainin11 will be aold to colltctou•

                        •
   A. S. CROCKETT
          781 Fifth Avenue
             New York
·.
     THE "OLD

1llilborfJl{~toria
     BAR BOOK
              THE OLD

   1lli~orf~storia
            BAR BOOK
      WITH AMENDMENT& DUE TO
         REPEAL OF THE XVIIITH

Giving the Correct Recipes for FIVE HUNDRED COCKTAILS
and MIXED DRINKS known and served at the World's Most
Famous Brass Rail before Prohibition, together with More
than ONE HUNDRED ESTABLISHED FORMULAS for Cocktails
         and Other Beverages, Originated while
                Prohibition was in Effect

     'The Whole Flavored with 'Dashes of History
 Jvfixed in a Shaker of Anecdote and Served with a
          Chaser of Illuminative Information

                          BY

      ALBERT STEVENS CROCKETT
        <HISTORIAN OF THE OLD WALDORF-ASTORL\l
           Illustratiom by Leighton Budd




              A . S . CROCKETT
  NEW YORK                                     l 935
              COPYRIGHT,   1931 , 19H• 1935
        BY ALBERT STEVE N S CROCKETT



                  ALL RlGHTS RESERVED
  NO PART OF THIS BOOK MAY BE REPRODUC ED JN A N Y FOR.M
   WITHOUT PERMISSION IN WRITING FROM: THE PUBLISHER




PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BY N EW YO RK LITHOG RAPHING CORPO RATION , Nf.\V YORK
              RECALLING

CERTAIN      GENTLEMEN             OF   OTHER    DAYS,
                          '
       WHO     MADE           OF    DRINKING
 ONE    OF   THE    PLEASURES ' OF             LIFE-
        NOT     ONE      OF    ITS      EVILS;
       WHO     ACHIEVED ', CONTENT
          LONG      ERE       CAPACITY
   WAS REACHED OR OVERTAXED;
                         AND
   WHO,      WHATEVER              THEY    DRANK,
       PROVED    AB LE TO CARRY IT ,
             KEEP    THEIR          HEADS
       AND    REMAI N GENTLEMEN ,
          EVEN      IN   THEIR          CUPS
              THEIR EXAMPLE
               IS COMMENDED
                    TO THEIR
                   POSTERITY
                     CONTENTS
                                                           PAGE
      PREAMBULARY                                            I

 II   CONSTITUTIVE AND DERIVATIVE                           IO

llI   BAPTISMAL                                             20
IV    FORMULARY                                             27
       A.   DRUNK AT THE OLD WALDORF B,AR                   27
             LIST OF PRE-WAR COCKTAILS BY BASES             28
             CocKTAILS   .                                  34
             FANCY PoTATioNs AND O~HERWISE                  79
               COBBLERS                                     79
               COOLERS                                      79
               CUPS.                                        81
               FIZZES                                       82
               FLIPS                                        86
               HIGH-BALLS                                   86
               HoT PoTATIONS                                87
               HoT-WITH FLAMES                              89
               jULEPS
                                                  -         90
               PoussE-CAFEs                                 91
               PUNCHES                                       91
               R1cKEYs .                                    97
               SAN GARE ES                            .~

                                                            97
               SLINGS                                       98
               SMASHES                                      99
               Sou Rs                                       99
               TODDIES                                     102
               OTHER M1xEo PoTATIONS                       103
               NoN-ALcoHoL1c .                              117
                             vii
Vlll                       CONTENTS
                                                    PACE

        B.   AMENDMENTS--DRINKS FROM OTHER CLIMES   120
              1.     MosTLY WITH FRENCH SPIRIT      1 20
                   SIDE-CAR                         I 2I
                   STINGER (OLD) .                  I2I
                   BRANDY PoTATIONs                 122
              2.     CuBAN CoNcocTtoNs-(RuM)        126
                   CocKTAtLs                        1 26
                   FIZZES AND FLIPS                 I3I
                   MISCELLANEOUS .                  I 33
              3.     JAMAICAN JoLLIFIERS-(RuM)      137
                   COCKTAILS                        I 38
                   PUNCHES                          142
                   MISCELLANEOUS                    I 44
 V     HISTORICAL-THE         OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA
         BAR, 1897-1919 .                           150
VI     GLOSSARIAL-SOME THINGS MOST PEOPLE
        DON'T KNOW ABOUT LIQUORS          166




                                                           ..
    THE OLD   ,

1lli~orf~~tma
   BAR BOOK
I. PREAMBULARY




 D      URING what facetious American newspaper column-
         ists sometimes referred to as the Period of the
 Great Drought-that is to say, during the days of the
 Noble Experiment-the art of mixing cocktails as known
 and practiced up to 1919 lapsed into a sort of desuetude,
 even if that could not be descrjbed as "innocuous" or even
 as mnox1ous.
    In those larger times , when legal liquor could be had
 more or less freely in tHis country, if one had the price,
 or was fortunate enough to be declared in by some host
standing treat, new drinks owed their invention either to
unusually enterprising barmen, or to customers gifted with
imagination and longing for new savors and flavors or,
possibly, the inspiration was attributable to what they had
already drunk. Here and there one knew so'm e amateur
experimenter whose chief indoor sport was putting together
new and sometimes weird and even terrifying concoctions
and trying the result upon his friends. During the decade
and a half preceding the .Great War, "Have you tried
this one?" was almost as frequent a prelude to something
as "Have you heard this one?"                .
   The war in Europe definitely diminished creative ac-
tivities in the cocktail line. From London we heard that
Britishers, drawn into the combat, had taken to drinking
champagne, and were even being weaned away from their
Scotch. When the A.E.F. discovered France, a simul-
taneous discovery was made of the wines of the country,
                            I
2            OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

together with what was quantitatively described as "beau-
coup cognac." When the survivors of the War and its at-
tendant gustatory campaigns got back home, it was to a
country all set for strict Constitutional sobriety, legally en-
forced. America was to be dried up.
   Of course, no such thing happened, except in theory.
Sumptuary legislation has always proved repugnant to free
men and difficult to enforce. Instead of becoming alcoholi-
cally arid, the United States grew wetter and wetter as
the years passed. The bootlegger, once among the most
despised members of society, became important-as impor-
tant in his way as the Missing Link might be considered
by ethnologists and anthropologists of the Darwinian
school. Indeed, he proved a missing link. He bought mag-
nificent motor cars or high speed motor boats, amassed
fortunes, grew into might and acquired a definite and
even respectable status as an indispensable member of so-
ciety. More than one read his name in some Social Roster,
-though it had probably been printed there before he
turned outlaw. The racketeer and the gangster, protected
by the politician and even in collusion with the revenue
officer, waxed powerful and became superior to the law.
The average American who wanted liquor bought from
one or the other. What he got was their business, not
his. True, persons with long purses might purchase what
was "good stuff" according to pre-war standards, but mis-
takes were made. The rest of us often paid fancy prices
for labels: Stimulated by the very difficulties created by
the law and encouraged by the ease with which those dif-
ficulties could be surmounted, as well as by the temptation
to break a statute that was never popular in large centers
of population, an appetite for strong drink spread among
                       PREAMBULARY                          3
 the young, not sparing young women. It became "smart"
 to affect the speakeasy and to make it a place of assemblage;
 and "drunk" and "souse" became humorous rather than
 disreputable terms.
    But avast with moral discussions! The story has been
 written, and we are trying to recover from what in effect
was a national spree-with headaches, and sometimes
 worse. The fact was that, deprived of legal liquor, we
 had embarked, as it were, upon an unknown sea of al-
coholic beverages. ,Thirsts were drowned, rather than
quenched, in "bathtub" or synthetic gin-that or "whiskey"
made from supposedly denat'o/ed wood-alcohol. Fatalities
were frequent. The c~cktail, long considered an aid to
good appetite and digestion and cheer, often proved an
enemy to digestion, health, morals and even mind. In sum,
the art of drinking, according to the tenets of .the long
established American School, was lost, except one found
in Havana, or Nassau, or elsewhere abroad, some veteran
barman whose training and experience qualified him to
compose qrinks in the old, standard American way. The
men employed in speakeasies to mix cocktails and other
drinks as a rule knew nothing about the job and did
not have valid liquors to start with. A "cocktail" was apt
to prove just something with so-called gin in it, or a mix-
ture of two or more of the ' imitations that masked behind
well-known names.
   Self-respecting bartenders of the old day-or most of
them-had found other means of ea:rning a living. Some
had emigrated. There were exceptions. Breaking the law
of the land-a frequent avocation for many of us-most
of our social clubs found employment for experienced bar-
men. But rare it was that this particular searcher for truth
4           OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

and good spirit, who, through the courtesy of friends was
enabled to sample the offerings of many club bars, tasted
a cocktail that seemed authentic. And he never drank a
cocktail at a club bar during the prohibition era without
wondering whether it would prove his last.
   Neighboring countries benefited much from prohibition
in the United States. For Canada the Yankee tourist trade
proved a great boon. From early spring to late autumn
the roads carried northward hosts of automobilists, bent,
not upon seeing the natural and other wonders of the
Dominion so much as on sampling the spirituous fare
available to any comer. Usually their first port of call,
once across the border, or after registering at a hotel, was
a government liquor store, which exhibited a generous de-
sire to accommodate, despite the legal limitations on sales
to a single customer. All one had to do was to go back as
early and as often as he pleased. A late afternoon in a
Montreal hotel usually yielded ebullient evidence of a
heavy American invasion, which proclaimed to all within
ear-shot that it had got what it had come for.
   Certain steamship companies finally awoke to the pos-
sibilities that lay in catering particularly to our denied
and increasing demand for good liquor and plenty of it;
and week-end cruises, swift turn-about jaunts to the tropics
and return "voyages to Nowhere" won enormous popu-
larity and helped erase some of the "red ink" into which
the ~rans-Atlantic steamship companies had sunk until they
were almost awash. Many who embarked on such cruises
later yielded curious descriptions of the foreign ports they
had visited, telling of a Havana that was paved with saw-
dust and contained mostly within "Sloppy Joe's"; and a
tour of the British West Indies often seemed to linger
                        PREAMBULARY                          5
  in memory mostly as a series of dashes from a table to
  the bar of "Dirty Dick's," in Nassau. It came to be said
  that a ship's company in those days did not disembark
  upon arriving back in New York, but was poured out upon
  the pier.
     When the repeal of the prohibition amendment was
  accomplished, on December 5, 1933, proprietors of New
• York hotels and restaurants made the discovery that good
  bartenders, men who knew anything at all about mixing
  cocktails, were' scarce. Most of the old-timers had died
  off, or forgotten what they had known. Steamships and
  clubs were raided; barmen were even imported; but it is
  a good hazard thatp ut of every ten men employed to mix
  cocktails on that historic day of Repeal, not more than one
  really knew the rudiments of his trade. Schools for bar-
  tenders had sprung up, but they could not turn out ex-
  perts fast enough to qualify. Properly mixing a wide variety
  of cocktails requires much more than a month of training.
  Long practice is absolutely essential.
     Besides, even in pre-prohibition days, no one man could
  keep all the drink recipes in his head. Few latter-day cock-
  tail slingers really have any conception of the number and
  variety of cocktails and other mixed drinks that used to
  be in demand. In order to be able to serve the correct cock-
  tail when a customer called for his fancy of the moment,
  recipes had been written down and · kept ready for con-
  sultation.
     During the last few years, the market has been flooded
  with so-called cocktail recipe books. Without challenging
  them all, one may mention that some seem to have been
   based on the p·ractices and even on the orthography of
  speakeasy "bar-keeps." In one, for example, I came across
6           OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

the recipe for a "Dacqueri"-presumably intended for "Dai-
quiri," but whose formula would not be recognized as such
anywhere in Cuba, where the rum it contains is the national
drink. Not long ago, I made an examination of one
volume which, judging from the quantity of names dis-
played, offered a tremendous number of cocktail recipes
of startling variety. I found fewer than seventy whose
names and formulas were known to me. Out of that sev-
enty, the recipes for not as many as ten agreed with the
formulas of pre-war times that were in my possession. They
brought up Pickwickian memories.
   "It depends, my lord," said Mr. Weller, during the
trial of Bardell vs. Pickwick, "upon the taste and fancy of
the speller."
   Back in softer-boiled days and for more than twenty
years, New York boasted many well run and well known
bars, and one in particular that was famous all over the
world. Everybody from everywhere who wanted the best
of drinks, made according to the best traditions. of the
American School, found his way to it when he reached
New York and carried away memories ·of it. In far-off
Shanghai, in Peking, in Singapore, in Melbourne, in Cape-
town, in Johannesburg, in Aden, in Calcutta, an Amer-
ican traveler was sure to find in a local club or hotel
somebody who would boast of having had such-and-such
a cocktail in the Old Waldorf-Astoria Bar. If the new ac-
quainta11ce was a Scot, he was apt to lick reminiscent chops
over the generous free lunch there dispensed.
   The barmen in that historic dispensary-an even dozen
of them when good times made good business-had to
know what was what when it came to mixing and serv-
ing drinks. As at most first class bars of the period, all
                      PREAMBULARY                         7
 recipes were written down once they had been invented
 and tasted. Every new recipe brought to the bar must
 pass a try-out before it was inscribed in the Bar Book. It
 is to the fact that one of the Old Waldorf barmen held on
 to the copy of that Bar Book long after prohibition had
shut what had grown by repute to the dignity of an Amer-
ican institution that we owe the preservation of the names
and the real recipes of the authentic cocktails and most
of the recognized mixed alcoholic drinks of ante-prohibition
days. That barman was Joseph Taylor, who had been
"called to the Bar" duri~g its early days and who helped
close it. He remained in the employ of the Old Waldorf-
Astoria until its la~'t day, working in what became known
as its "beverage department" and handling no more stimu-
lating potations than aerated water, ginger ale and near-
beer. After the old hotel was closed, in 1929, Taylor was
out of a job for a time, finally obtaining precarious em-
ployment until the opening of the new Waldorf. His
self-respect would not permit him to work in a speak-
easy, he told me. He used to call upon me at intervals.
The last time was about ten months before Repeal Day.
He was then looking forward eagerly, he said, to the re-
turn of old times, and to getting back behind a counter
and plying the cocktail shaker in the old way, with "real
stuff" to pour into it from genuinely labeled bottles. But
he did not live to see that day.       ·
    The Old Waldorf Bar Book he had given me to use
as I saw fit when I was writing the history of .the Old
Waldorf Bar-which I had known from shortly after its
opening until the end-and in it I incorporated the con-
tents of the recipe book. That book was intended simply
as a contribution to the social history of an age-one I
8           OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

had treated from other standpoints in another volume,
PEACOCKS ON PARADE, earlier published. When OLD WAL-
DORF BAR DAYs came out, few Americans dreamed that
repeal was hardly more than two years off. And so, while
I "translated" and more or less codified and put into alpha-
betical order the contents of that battered, dog-eared lit-
tle album, its pages stained with many samples of liquors,
and which would probably show under a microscope the
thumb prints of many barmen who had had to consult it,
I had no idea of turning out a guide of any sort. I merely
incorporated it as something that might interest the re-
searcher into American mores, who, I felt sure, would find
much material therein, and so permitted myself very little
elaboration.
   However, the book attracted wide and favorable com-
ment. As Repeal Day approached, critics and connoisseurs
who knew good liquors and particularly what cocktails
used to be like, found that, by virtue of having been long
in actual daily use, here was an authoritative compendium
of the authentic cocktails of a by-gone day. True, its
availability was handicapped by being tacked on, as it
were, to a quasi-historical narrative and exposition, so that
those who merely saw the book and the title did not read-
ily guess, as a rule, that it contained a collection of cock-
tail recipes. B<"r:ause of the book's history, it stood alone.
It should be improved, amplified as much as necessary, and
made thoroughly understandable and useful.
   This was emphasized by Mr. Howard L. Lewis, Secre-
tary of Dodd, Mead and Company. So that the author,
encouraged and stimulated by the interest of a publishing
firm of such high reputation and standing, gladly under-
took the work of revision.
                     PREAMBULARY                        9
   Besides the revised formulas for cocktails and other
mixed drinks contained in the Old Waldorf Bar Book, I
have included a number of recipes for other standard cock-
tails and mixed drinks, mostly gathered outside of the
United States, and many of them tested and approved by
the author.
II. CONSTITUTIVE AND DERIVATIVE




T      HE cocktail, as many generations have known it,
        is a distinctively American drink. Its name, its
 formulas and its influence as well, have been spread by
traveling Americans to every corner of the globe. Or else
Britons, bound for some distant part of an empire on
which the sun is always setting, learned a recipe in an
American bar and made the barman at the club in their
remote destination experiment until he had achieved some-
thing like the flavors of the mixture whose tastes and ef-
fects they longed to experience again.
   At home-in London, or wherever he dwelt in his tight
little island-the Englishman as a rule did not succumb
easily to the innovation. For many years the fact that the
cocktail was an American drink was sufficient to condemn
it in his eyes. The Britisher stuck to his Sherry or his
Scotch or Brandy-and-Soda. So that the spread of the
cocktail in anything like its pristine purity, so to speak,
was due in greatest measure to peripatetic Yankees, some
of whom never found any strange place liveable, or even
bearable, unless or until they could get their cocktails
when they wanted them.
   Not· until the present century was ending its second
decade was it possible anywhere in the London the com-
piler of this volume knew-and that was considerable-
to buy a genuine cocktail made in the American way. In
Paris, yes. The French, making early discovery that profit
lurked in catering to thirsts hostile to claret or Burgundy,
                            IO
              CONSTITUTIVE AND DERIVATIVE                II

 imported cocktail shakers and increased the manufacture of
 ice. Not a few Frenchmen had learned about cocktails
 in America. The Chatham bar and Henry's and a dozen
 or more other places knew just how Martinis and Old-
 Fashioneds were made, and served them. That was one
 reason why many an American found Paris more enjoy-
 able than London, and stayed longer. Of course, in Lon-
 don hotel bars frequented by Americans, cocktails, so-
 called, were served long ago by English barmaids and
 drunk liberally. American visitors, though they refused to
 acquire the tea habit ·and balked at Scotch, simply had to
drink something in that climate. But somehow the con-
coctions lacked";iuthenticity; they did not taste like real
cocktails. English bartenders and barmaids, it appeared,
found as much difficulty composing cocktails harmoniously
as did their musicians in learning to play music of Amer-
ican origin and tempo. At this distance and with the con-
quest of London by our "jazz kings" a part of ancient
history, the comparison must seem inept. But I knew the
London of twenty-five to thirty years ago; I lived there.
    Not until the summer of 1920, so far as I was able to
ascertain, did an American-trained barman make his ap-
pearance at one of the high-class London hotels. That was
the year when most' American bartenders found themselves
out of jobs. This one, however, was a Britisher. I knew
the Englishman who had been commissioned by the man-
agement of that hotel to iind such an expert in New York
and happened to be in the lobby when the result of the
mission was announced. I sampled one of the newcomer's
first cocktails made on British soil.
   Out in the Far East, the American Navy, true to tradi-
tion, did its share in spreading the gospel of the cocktail.
12          OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

Certainly whatever may have been lacking in the results
of their missionary endeavors up to the Spanish-American
War was made up in 1898, just before and after Dewey's
capture of the Spanish fleet in Manila Bay and during the
Boxer Rebellion a few years later. Whatever the oft~
encountered sign "American Bar" may have lacked in
authentic backing when one encountered it in Europe, out
in what were known as the Treaty Ports of China, in Yoko-
hama and such other places in the Orient as our sailors,
marines and soldiers came to know, one could find his
Martini or any other cocktail that was in vogue back in
the States.
   Yet, while the cocktail is an American invention, its
derivation and first date of application are hazed by anec-
dote and fancy. Take, for example, a story once heard in
the Orient.
   "A cocktail?" the Mandarin repeated, eying the drink
doubtfully.
   "Yes," replied the Standard Oil man, his host in Hong
Kong.
   "But why the name?"
   The other shook his head. "Drink it and you will find
the rooster feathers growing on you."
   The Mandarin drank, perplexed. Having drunk, how-
ever, his curiosity over the name left him. All he wanted
was another of the same. Soon afterward began in the
Far East a demand for bottled Martinis and Manhattans,
which did more to Americanize the Chinese than any
other influence.
   J'here was once a day when women did not drink
cocktails. They even hesitated to pronounce the name.
Over here we spoke of "roosters." Of course everybody
              CONSTITUTIVE AND DERIVATIVE                    13
 knew that roosters had tails and it was a common opinion
 that the effect of a cocktail was to make the imbiber feel
 somehow like a rooster with his tail stuck up. Anyhow,
 if the cocktail was properly made, it had the effect of at
least stimulating the appetite. But that much admitted,
 the derivation is still an open question and the date un-
decided.
    As my habit, when at a loss for the origin of a word,
is to appeal to one of the foremost lexicographers in our
land, I put the ancestry of "cocktail" up to Dr. Frank H.
Vizetelly, managing ,editor of the Standard Dictionary.
Then it developed that even that eminent root specialist
found himself stumped when it came to pinning an exact
date on the word and getting down to the bottom of its
family tree. But Dr. Vizetelly was kind enough to go
into the matter with great thoroughness.
    "The cocktail," Dr. Vizetelly replied, "goes back at
least to the beginning of the 19th century, and may date
back to the American Revolution. fo is alleged by one
writer to have been a concoction prepared by the widow of
a Revolutionary soldier as far back as r 779. He offers no
proof of the statement, but a publication, 'The Balance,'
for May r 3, 1806, describes the cocktail of that period as
'a stimulating liqubr composed· of spirits of any kind,
sugar, water and bitters. It is vulgarly called "bitter sling,"
and is supposed to be an excellent electioneering potion.'
   "Washington Irving, in 'Knickerbocker' ( r 809), Page
241, said of the cocktail: 'They (Dutch-Americans) lay
claim to be the first inventors of the recondite beverages,
cock-tail, stone-fence, and sherry cobbler.' Hawthorne re-
ferred to cocktails in 'The Blithedale Romance' ( 185 2), as
did Thackeray in his 'The Newcomes' (1855), but neither
14            OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

 of these authors sheds any light upon the origin of the
 term.
    "The New English Dictionary on Historical Principles
 says that the origin of the word cocktail is lost. In this con-
 nection, one writer refers to the older term cocktail, mean-
 ing a horse whose tail, being docked, sticks up like the tail
 of a cock. He adds: 'Since drinkers of cocktails believe
 them to be exhilarating, the recently popular song,
 "Horsey, keep your tail up," may perhaps hint at a pos-
 sible connection between the two senses of "cocktail." '
    "Bartlett in his 'Dictionary of Americanisms' gives the
 following: 'Cocktail'-A stimulating beverage, made of
 brandy, gin or other liquor, mixed with bitters, sugar and
 very little water. A friend thinks that this term was sug-
 gested by the shape which froth, as of a glass of porter,
 assumes when it flows over the sides of a tumbler con-
 taining the liquid effervescing.' He quotes the following
 from the New York Tribune of May 8, 1862: 'A bowie-
 knife and a foaming cocktail.' In the Yorkshire dialect,
 cocktail described beer that is fresh and foaming.
    "Brewer, in 'A Dictionary of Phrase and Fable,' follow-
 ing the definition of cocktail, adds the note: 'The origin
 of the term is unknown. The story given in the New York
 World (1891) to the effect that it is an Aztec word, and
 that 'the liquor' was discovered by an Aztec noble, who
 sent it by the hand of his daughter Xochitl to the King,
 who promptly named it "xoctl," whence "cocktail," is a
 good specimen of the manufacture of etymologies.'
    "As you will see from the foregoing," Dr. Vizetelly
.concludes, "altho many theories have been advanced as to
 the etymology of the term cocktail, these, like most ety-
 mologies of the kind, are mere flights of fancy, and while
             CONSTITUTIVE AND DERIVATIVE               15
they make interesting reading, can not be accepted as re-
liable."
   So much for derivation and history. Now for the mean-
ing of cocktail. The Standard Dictionary gives it as
"[U.S.] A drink made of spirits mixed with bitters, sugar
and flavor."
   Well, that's sufficient to start with. But it was not a
speakeasy definition during prohibition, and millions of
Americans have grown up with very different ideas. In
the Old Waldorf Bar Book, bitters of one kind or other
was considered a necessary ingredient of most Gin cock-
tails. The favorite was Orange Bitters, which appears in
something like one hundred different recipes. A distant
second was Angostura. Then there were Calisaya, Boone-
kamp, Boker's, Amer Picon, Hostetter's, Pepsin, Peychaud,
Fernet Branca, and so on. The Bitters was used in small
quantities, ordinarily described as "one dash" or "two."
But Bitters used to contain alcohol and prohibition made
most brands illegal to import. One well known firm
which specialized during prohibition in importing liquors
whose alcoholic content had been reduced until they could
be brought in as "flavoring extracts," told me it had not
imported Orange Bitters in fourteen years.
   The original Old Waldorf Bar Book contained almost
three hundred cocktail recipes. That means more than ap-
pears, for of cocktails made with Vermouth there were
frequently two variants, an ordinary and a "dry"--or
"sec." That was particularly true where the recipe called
for Italian Vermouth. Using French Vermouth instead,
the result was a "dry" cocktail, one that was not sweet
and a better appetizer. Certain barmen claimed to make a
dry cocktail simply by increasing the proportion of Gin.
I6          OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

Many recipes, however, call only for French Vermouth.
Gin was the base, or one of the bases, of approximately one
hundred and fifty cocktails-more if the "dry" variants
of cocktails are considered as different entities. In mak-
ing forty or so, Whiskey was the base. Rum of one sort
or another was used only in fourteen; for Bacardi and
Jamaica-though the latter was the favorite indulgence
of many of our colonial forefathers-had not attained the
wide acquaintance among Americans the latter now enjoy.
In this book, Cuban and Jamaican drinks of today are
taken up exhaustively following the contents of the Old
Waldorf Bar Book. Sloe Gin was the base of eleven recipes.
There were forty-four whose base was either Brandy or one
of a number of cordials. Frequently two or more were
mixed. Other bases were Applejack or Apple Brandy, Cal-
isaya, Dubonnet, Sherry, Port and Swedish Punsch.
   During the first two decades of the century, the com-
monly accepted American definition of a cocktail was a
mixture of Gin and Vermouth with Bitters, iced and
shaken. Of course, Whiskey cocktails had their many and
a!ident devotees; and the Manhattan, based on Whiskey,
was a popular drink. To a big majority, however, Whiskey
was something that should be taken neat, or, at most, adul-
terated with nothing more than water. In a highball, of
course, the latter was aerated. The average Whiskey
drinker regarded the mixture of good Bourbon or Rye
wi~p anything as a sort of sacrilege-except after the drink
had gone down, when, as a rule, he liked to dispatch
a small quantity of water in its wake. To many persons,
Whiskey cocktails were so much medicine. To such, the
ideal combination was Gin and Vermouth. Vermouth alone,
 as a drink, never won wide favor in this country, but it is
              CONSTITUTIVE AND DERIVATIVE

 noteworthy that more than half the cocktails known had
 Vermouth as an essential. Of them all, the favorite was
 the Dry Martini.
   Undoubtedly the ancestor of the cocktail that gained
 widest vogue during prohibition, particularly among house-
 holders who had to make their own, wa.S what was known
 both as the Adirondack and the Orange Blossom No. 2.
 It consisted of one-half Orange Juice and one-half
 Gin, and was served· in a bar glass. In the period just
 past, many persons who thought they had dependable boot-
leggers made up a concoction that approached the Orange
Blossom No. 1, which consisted of one-third Orange Juice,
one-third To~ Gin and one-third Italian Vermouth; or
else the Eddy, which was one-third Gordon Gin, one-
third French Vermouth and one-third Orange Juice. When
one's host served a Bronx, during the late Doubtful Drink
Era, it was more apt to be something whose content was
one of the three just named-or almost anything. As a
rule, the Orange Juice, at least, was ' the "real stuff."
   At this point it may be mentioned that between certain
pairs of cocktails, the only difference lies in the brand of
Gin used. Occasionally the only dissimilarity is in names.
However, Shakespeare to the contrary, once in a while there
was something in these, as will be shown later.
   Despite a widely accepted belief that all cocktails were
iced, there were exceptions to the general rule, as the reci-
pes show. My personal preference is for an iced cocktail,
and I always use a shaker, one that could hold much more
than the quantity of ingredients used. To my notion, a good
deal of muscle action is necessary in shaking properly,
and one secret of a perfect cocktail is getting it to the
drinker with the least possible delay; that is to say, like
18          OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

hot coffee, as soon as it is made.
    Just where cocktails leave off and other mixed drinks
begin it is difficult to determine. Some authorities would
make cocktails all mixed drinks which have to be shaken~
and cause dissensions. In reproducing the Old Waldorf
Bar Book, I have followed in the main the classification
of cocktails therein made. Many other mixed drinks fall
into groups-determined, as a rule, by one or more of the
ingredients used, or the method of making. Others can
not be classified, and so are just listed alphabetically.
    Before closing this dissertation on the products of the
American School of Drinking, one must say frankly that
so far as chemistry and logic are concerned, it would seem
that either has had little to do with the formulas of most
cocktails. The American School of Drinking, as it existed
in other days, was never that of France; and so far as
anybody has revealed, the rules of chemistry were never
considered in arriving at formulas, nor was any dietitian
consulted. Most American alcoholic concoctions exhibit
little regard for chemistry, either in theory or application.
 In France, as Julian Street intimates in his "Wines," re-
 cently published, the art of drinking has, in a sense, been
 guided partly by the laws of chemical reactions. Genera-
 tions of experts have determined which wines go best with
 certain foods; which aid the appetite or digestion. Modera-
 tion has usually been the keynote.
 .. Americans, as a rule, drink partly for the taste, mostly
 for the effect. Those who prefer the effect to the taste
 like to get the same quickly. The cocktail, taken according
  to general practice, is not sipped as is wine. If it is not
  gulped, it is usually finished in three swallows, or at most
  four. Few of us on this side of the Atlantic, when we face
             CONSTITUTIVE AND DERIVATIVE                 19
a cocktail, look for bouquets or aromas, to a French gour-
met among the most potent charms of wines and brandies.
Lots of Americans these days seem to like cocktails made
of two or more kinds of liqueurs. Such mixtures would
tend to shock the sophisticated foreigner, who has been
taught that anything of the nature of a liqueur should fol-
low rather than precede a meal. Most American women
who acquired the cocktail habit while John Barleycorn was
doing time, judging from what one has seen in foreign
parts, prefer cocktails that are sweet, even if they are
strong. Indeed, during that now happily ended chapter
of American history, cocktail parties, which grew into
great vogue; .were seldom intended to quicken the appetite
for dinner. They became occasions when intensive drink-
ing was done and a provident host or hostess, aware that
hunger was bound to ensue, prided himself or herself upon
furnishing an abundant supply of hors d'ceuvres, or, as
these came themselves to be known, "appetizers;" the re-
sult often being that persons who attended cocktail parties
preceding dinners· so gorged themselves with these "deli-
cate" but nevertheless substantial offerings, that by the
time they reached the dinner table they seldom had any
appetite left.
   Moderation is• the secret of enjoyment of anything, if
one wishes to retain the faculty for enjoyment. That rule
most certainly applies to cocktails and the whole category
of drink of any kind. And, according to very respectable
doctors, just• as many digestive troubles originate from
over-eating as from too much drinking.
Ill. BAPTISMAL




T    HE visitor to a speakeasy, during the recent Period
       of Stress, may have lacked nothing in abundance
of supply; but he was confronted by decided circumscrip-
tion in variety. Had one who knew breat'hed to dispensers
of dreadful drinks that masked under names once guar-
antees of superior content, and harmless, if potent, ac-
celerators of appetite and good feeling-taken in modera-
tion-some figures as well as facts about the quality and
variety of alcoholic dispensation at the Old Waldorf in its
real prime, he would probably have been greeted by a
scouting or scornful, "Aw, what are ya givin' me?" In-
deed, had you told almost anybody who hadn't the facts
before him the number of kinds of fancy drinks Old Wal-
dorf barmen knew how to concoct, and did concoct, they
would have put you down as a liar and probably said it
aloud.
   Those three hundred or so varieties of what was once
the great American drink, one which carried the name of
our people all over the world; those over four hundred
more varieties of picklers than the most ambitious Amer-
ican pickler of his age was ever able to advertise-and
which pickled more people-deserve, with their formulas 1
to live in history. Their nomenclature belongs to it, not
only as part of our national chronicles, but as an index to
certain social, industrial and artistic achievements of an
age.
   Brushing aside such mythological, ornithological, theo-
                            20
                         BAPTISMAL                        21

 logical, zoological, or otherwise "logical" designations as
 Adonis, Bird, Bridal, Bishop Poker, Creole, Goat's De-
 light, Gloom Lifter and Hoptoad-to name just a few
 samples of cocktails of other times-consider others that
 betray less of fancy and originality, but perhaps more of
 cause of origin.
    For example, take the Armour; called after a well
 known Chicago patron of the establishment. Then there
 was a Beadleston, named after another customer who sold
 the Bar much of the beer he brewed, and after whom was
 baptized a second cocktail, the Beadleston No. 'li. Speak-
 ing still alphabetically, there was a Bunyan, spelled with
 an "a;'·~ not an "o," and summoning up thoughts of a
 thirsty pilgrim's progress to a land of never-never-thirst.
 A "Chauncey" must have been named after the most dis-
 tinguished person of that prenomen, a famous orator and
 wit. There is no record that its namesake was present at its
christening. Nor is there evidence that the originator of a
celebrated march upon Washington graced the birth of
the Coxey cocktail. The Dorflinger got its name from a
glass manufacturer who made containers for drinks.
    For the creation of the Eddy, I may predicate at once
that no scientific lady of that name was responsible; I
am inclined to attribute its origin to a popular and hand-
some young diplomatist of the early part of the century
who married an heiress and went into eclipse. And surely
one would not think of attributing the Hearst cocktail to
any personal interest on the part of a great newspaper
proprietor; rather to certain of his staff who were in the
habit of dropping in at odd times when assigned to a story
in the neighborhood of what was then Herald Square.
   And there was McKinley's Delight. Just why it was
22          OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

McKinley's delight, I am unable to ascertain. The chances
are that President McKinley never found out whether it
was or not. In its favor, I may mention that the Bar was
a great hangout for the G.0.P.'s of yesteryear, who may
have passed their enthusiasm for their candidates across
the counter for the barman to translate into terms of liquid
intensity.
   The Waldorf Bar served a Racquet Club, a Riding Club
and a Union League Club cocktail, thus honoring certain
social and representative New York institutions. But who
the "Mrs. Thompson" was, whose name was bestowed
upon one of its cocktails, frankly, I do not know. Nor do
I know just what state of spiritual or spirituous elevation,
or on whose part, suggested the christening of the St.
Francis or the St. Peter or the St. John, though the first
may have been called after a California hotel, and not
after a friar long deceased.
   The stage, whether or not it drove men to drink in
those days, certainly inspired much drinking, and success-
ful plays often stood godfather for bartenders' concep-
tions. The great success of "Rosemary," with which John
Drew and one of Charles Frohman's best companies
helped open the Astoria part of the Old Waldorf-Astoria,
was celebrated in a cocktail of the same name, composed of
equal parts of Vermouth and Bourbon. The tuneful "Merry
Widow" and the almost equally whistleable "Chocolate
Soldier" were drowned in baptismal cocktails at the Wal-
dorf Bar. The Merry Widow cocktail was made of half
French Vermouth and half Dubonnet; the Chocolate Sol-
dier, an appropriately stronger potation, was composed
of one-third Dubonnet, two-thirds Nicholson Gin and a
dash of Lime Juice. "Peg o' My Heart" and "Rob Roy"
                         BAPTISMAL

  named other cocktails. "Trilby" had been drunk back in
  the days of the Waldorf sit-down Bar. In compliment to
  the locale of the play, the Trilby cocktail was made of
  one-third French Vermouth and two-thirds Old Tom Gin,
  with dashes of Orange Bitters and Creme Yvette.
  "Salome," making a tremendous sensation in a single
  presentation at the Metropolitan Opera House, in 1907,
  was celebrated in a way that might have made Strauss
, weep for · his seidel or his stein of Pilsner. With its
  two dashes of Absinthe, cementing half portions of Ital-
  ian Vermouth and Dubonnet, the cocktail lacked Ger-
  man authorship, but certainly nothing in authority. Mrs.
  Les)ie Carter must have heard, when she helped make
  David Belasco loom larger on the theatrical map, that
  "Zaza" made one of its biggest hits in the form of an
  invention of a Waldorf barman. The Zaza cocktail was
  somewhat milder than the Salome, for only one-third of
  its content was Old Tom Gin, .that being allied with two-
  thirds Dubonnet and tw'o dashes of Orange Bitters. And
  Charlie Chaplin had a cocktail named in his honor when
  he began to make the screen public laugh.
     In those days every big or spectacular event claimed
  its appropriate honorification at the hands of those Wal-
  dorf dispensers of drink. For example, the first composi-
  tion of the Arctic cocktail celebrated Peary's discovery of
  the North Pole-or .. where it ought to be; the Doctor
  Cook cocktail proclaimed the exposure of a celebrated
  polar faker whose very entrails Peary once confessed to
  me personally, in effect, he hated; the invention of the
  Coronation cocktail was anticipative of the ten minutes'
  rest the late King Edward got when they sat him on the
  Stone of Scone. The Fin de Siecle came toward the end
24          OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

of the century, when the expression became current in
magazines artd newspapers, and when lots of Americans
were taking their first steps in French. What they said
when they meant to order such a cocktail is another matter.
   Why, you can date many American historical, society,
sporting, police and other events by those cocktails when
you know the names. There was the Third Degree, in-
vented when everybody in New York was interested in the
way tough cops were extracting information from accused
persons. Probably it left its imbiber in a state similar to
that of the victim of a police inquisition. Added to one-
eighth French Vermouth, it consisted of seven-eighths
Plymouth Gin, with several dashes of Absinthe. The Good
Times cocktail was reminiscent of the socially important
coach that once ran from the Waldorf doorway to the
Woodmansten Inn. The Jitney complimented an inven-
tion of a Detroit gentleman which was found adaptable
to take the place of trolley cars when drivers and con-
ductors went on strike. It may be particularly interesting
to that inventor to learn that it was composed of one-half
Gin, one-fourth Lemon, one-fourth Orange Juice-and a
little Sugar. Then there was the Marconi Wireless, which
first "materialized" at the Bar of the Old Waldorf when
the ancestor of what is now called the "radio" began to
raise its ghostly voice; and the Prince Henry, concocted
to celebrate the arrival of the once-distinguished Kaiser's
apostolic brother, who was dined and wined prodigiously
in the old hotel's Grand Ballroom, just above the Bar-
room.
    Cocktails by the names of Futurity, Suburban, and so
 on, celebrated the triumphs of James R. Keene and his
 racing cohorts and other famous stable-owners on near-by
                           BAPTISMAL                           25
   courses. A famous picture of a naked girl in the waves,
   sold under the name of "September Morn," was perpetu-
   ated-at least it was so thought-by a Waldorf cocktail.
   However, that cocktail was not a brand-new composition
  -simply a Clover Club cocktail in which Gin gave place
   to Bacardi Rum; the real Clover Club being composed of
   the juice of half a Lemon, half a teaspoonful of Sugar,
  half a pony of Raspberry Syrup, one-quarter pony of White
  of Egg, and a jigger of Gin.
      The Spanish-American War produced distinctive drink
  nomenclature. The guns of Santiago awakened reverbera-
   tion in the Waldorf Bar, and shook up what was termed a
··,Santiago Sour-not, however, strictly a cocktail; no more
  was Hobson's Kiss, reminiscent of an episode that, alas!
  served to discredit the hero of the Merrimac. Then there
  was a Schley punch, a Shafter' cocktail, and another which
  took its name from Admiral Dewey, victor at Manila Bay.
      And when these are named, one has not really begun
  on the list of appetizers available to those who resorted
  at regular times to what was long the most famous exposi-
  tor of the American School of Drinking. As I have said,
  their nomenclature deserves to live in history, of which it
  is a part. More, if only to clarify that portion of history
  with data furnishing contributory evidence-if further proof
  is impossible-their composition is important to the his-
  torian, and some day will so prove to the antiquarian, who
  will no doubt find material for study and zealous contem-
  plation, if not amazement, in the fact that men once were
  able, year after year, to get outside so many kinds of more
   or less ardent spirit, and in such quantity, and still survive.
      Well, they didn't all survive. They made patients for the
   specialists at Carlsbad and other European cure resorts,
26          OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

and in many cases quit this sphere when still in their prime.
But when all is said, the searcher for prehistoric man, for
ancestors of much greater stature, may halt when he reads
of the exploits of the exponents of the old American School
of Drinking, point to the record, scratch his head, and say:
"There were giants in those days." And others, of course,
will draw a moral.
IV. FORMULARY

                             A.
DRUNK AT THE OLD WALDORF BAR

F     OR the convenience of students of the cultural history
        and mores of the American people, as well as for those
who wish to set a goal before starting to mix, the bibulous
con~octions long known and served at the Bar of the Old
Waldorf have been arranged alphabetically, and in two ge · -
eral classes. The cocktails have been set down in one list
and the others, which might be classed as "beverages,"
though that title might be open to dispute, have been termed
"Fancy Potations and Otherwise." The latter, as already
indicated, have themselves been subdivided into "families"
bearing a sort of g~neric name. However, a great many
proved too individualistic to classify, and these are merely
run alphabetically.
    At the Old Waldorf-Astoria Bar a good many non-
alcoholic drinks were made and served, and their recipes
are included in a separate list.
 '' For the guidance, particularly, of those faced by bottles
of authentic liqµors and liquids more or less potent and
potable, and who may not know just what to do with them,
I have separated names of the cocktails contained in the
Old Waldorf Bar Book into lists, governed by the particu-
lar "base" on which each was made. Many duplications of            · '~
                                                                      -: · ,
names will be discovered, but they are intentional, and due ::/ ' ·, . _:
                                                                ,;, ·~! -
to the fact that some cocktails had more than one base.        f11. ~.~/---·
    In addition is given a list of cocktails in which Vermouth/~:.
                              27
         28             OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

         is used. In a few it formed the base, or one of the bases.



I
         Another table names the cocktails in which Absinthe was
         considered essential. These lists apply only to the cocktails
.'       known and served before the Noble Experiment was
     ~   launched, and not to "Fancy Potations and Otherwise," of
         the same period, which have been divided, when possible,
         into groups according to their general name, such as "Slings,"
         "Sours," "Punches," and so on. Further on in the book will
         be found the best list, with formulas, of worth-while cock-
         tails, punches and so on, such as Americans going to the
         Tropics and elsewhere abroad have learned to know and
         usually to esteem, particularly those based upon two of
         the best known varieties of Rum produced in the West
          Indies.

          LISTS OF PRE-WAR COCKTAILS BY BASES

                                ON A GIN BASE

         Adirondack           Brandy                Cooperstown
         Alaska               Bridal                Cornell
         Alexander            Brighton              Coxey
         All Right            Bronx                 Criss Racquet Club
         Alphonse             Bronx No. 2           Daniel de Rouge
         Ampersand            Original Bronx        Defender
         Amsterdam            Bunyan                Dela tour
         Astor                Chanler               Delmonico
         Astoria              Chanticleer           Dewey
         Baco                 Chauncey              Dr. Cook
         Ballantine           Chocolate Soldier     Dorflinger
         Bishop Poker         Christ                Dorlando
         Black                Clover Club           Dowd
         Blackthorn           Club                  Down
         Bradford             Colonial              Easy
                    CLASSIFIED BY BASES                 29
   Eddy              Marble Hill          Rossington No. 2
   Emerson           Marguerite           St. Francis
   Fin de Siccle     Marmalade            St. John
   Fourth Degree     Martini              St. Peter
   Gibson            Dry Martini          Shafter
  Gibson No. 2       Middleton            Shake-up-Silo
   Gin               Milliken             Silver
   Gladwin           Millionaire          Sir Jasper
   Gold              Milo                 Skipper
   Good Times        Montauk              Sloe Gin
   Grand ·vin        Mrs. Thompson        Somerset
   Guion             My Own               Soul Kiss
   Hall ·            Newman               Sunshine
   Halsey            Newport              Swan
   Hamlin            Number Three         Tango
·, Hearst            Nutting              Thanksgiving
   Hilliard          Oliver                Third Degree
   Holland Gin       Opal                  Three-to-One
   Honolulu          Orange BlossoJTl      Tom Gin
   Honolulu No. 3    Orange Blossom        Trilby .
   Howard              No. 2               Turf
   Ideal             Fassipe               Tuxedo
   I. D. K.          Pell                  Union League
   I. D. K. No. 2    Perfect               Vandervere
   James             Perfect No. 2         i\'an Wyck
   Jazz              Poet's Dream          Wall Street
   Jimmie Lee        Pomeroy               Walter Monteith
   Jitney            Porto Rico            West India
   Jockey Club       Prince Henry          White Elephant
   Johnson           Princeton             H. P. Whitney
   Lewis             Queen                 Widow
   Lone Tree         Racquet Club           Wild Cherry
   Love              Rees                   Yale
   Lynne             Rose                   Zaza
   MacLean           Rossington             1915
30             OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

                        ON A WHISKEY BASE

(B. indicates Bourbon; S., Scotch; I., Irish; otherwise Rye was used)

Amaranth                 Japalac                 Rosemary (B.)
Beadleston               Liberal                 Sazerac (B. or S.)
Beadleston No.      2    Manhattan               Sherman
  (S.)                   Manhattan Junior        Southgate
Brown                    Manhattan Punch         Suburban
Chauncey                 McKinley's Delight      Thompson
Commodore No.       2    Narragansett            Waldorf
     (B.)                Old Fashioned           Waldorf Gloom
Emerald (I.)               Whiskey (B. or          Lifter (I.)
Ewing                       Rye)                 Whiskey (B., S., I.
Express (S.)             Pan American              or Rye)
Fanciulli                Prince                  Whiskey Old Style
Gloom Lifter (I.)        Robert Burns (S.)          (B. or Rye)
Hearn's                  Robin (S.)             -York (S.)
Highland (S.)            Rob Roy (S.)
Honolulu No. 2           Rory O'More (I.)

              ON A BRANDY OR A LIQUEUR BASE

     (B. indicate! Brandy. See also "Drinks from Other Climes")

Alaska (Chartreuse)      Charlie Rose (B.)       Full House
Alexander (Creme         Chauncey (B .)            (Chartreuse and
   de Cacao)             Chocolate                 Benedictine)
Alphonse (Creme de         (Chartreuse and       Goat's Delight
  Cacao)                   Maraschino)              (B. and Kirsch-
Ampersand (B.)           Coffee (B.)               wasser)
Bijou (Grand Mar-        Commodore No. 2         Harvard (B.)
  nier)                    (Creme de Cacao)      Honolulu No. 3
Bird (B. and Cura-       Coronation                 (Cura!;ao)
  !;ao)                    (Apricot Brandy)      Hop Frog (B .)
Brandy (B.)              Fanciulli   (Fernet     Hop Toad (Apricot
Brandy Crusta (B.)         Branca)                  Brandy)
Brant (B. & White        Floater   (B. and       Jack Rose (Grena-
   Mint)                    Kiimmel)                dine)
                          CLASSIFIED BY BASES                       31
Japanese (B.)              Rose (Grand Mar-         Strawberry (B.)
Metropole (B.)                nier)                 Tango No. 2 (Bene-
Middleton (Grena-          Ruby (Cherry                dictine)
  dine)                       Brandy)               Three-to-One
Montana (B.)               Russian (B.)                (Apricot Brandy)
Netherland                 Sam Ward (Char-         ·Waldorf-Astoria
   (B. and Cura!;ao)          treuse)                  (Benedictine)
Peacock (B.)               Skipper (Maraschi-       W ox um (Char-
Pep lo ( 7 Bases, q.v.)       no)                      treuse)
Poet's Dream               Stephen's                "I 9 I 5" (Cura!;aO)
  (Benedictine)               (Benedictine)


                            ON A RUM BASE

(For manj'1other Rum Cocktail!, see "Drinks from Other Climes'')

Bacardi                    Middleton               Santiago
Bacardi No. 2              Palmetto                September Morn
Commodore                  Peg o' My Heart         Suburban
Cora Middleton             Polo                    Tango No. 2
Hop Toad                   Raleigh


                          ON A SLOE GIN BASE

Arctic                     Futurity                Tipperary
Ardsley                    Ping Pong               Tyrone
Bradford                   Porto Rico              Van Wyck
Charlie Chaplin            Sloe Gin


ON A BASE OF APPLE WHISKEY, APPLE BRANDY, APPLEJACK,
                     OR "JERSEY LIGHTNING"

Coronation (Applejack)                  Marconi Wireless (Applejack)
Full House (Apple Whiskey)              Normandie (Apple Whiskey)
Jack Rose (Applejack)                   Star (Apple Whiskey)
Jersey (Apple Whiskey)
                         32              OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK




~f
                                             IN WHICH IS CALISAYA

                         Arctic                Colonial             Riding Club
         ..              Ardsley               Daniel de Rouge      Robin
                         Brut                  Dorando
~-   ,   .               Calisaya              James
. '· . .      '.   .,,




                                               WITH DUBONNET

                         Chocolate Soldier     Merry Widow          Z aza
                         Marble Hill           Salome

                                                 WITH SHERRY

                         Adonis                Bamboo               Tuxedo
                         Armour                Stephen's

                                                 WITH PORT

                         Coffee                Suburban             Union L eague

                                             WITH SWEDISH PUNSCH

                         Astor                 Doctor

                                    COCKTAILS IN WHICH ABSINTHE IS USED

                         Absinthe              Goat's Delight       Russian
                         Ballantine            H earn's             Salome
                         Brut                  Loftus               Sazerac
                         Creole                McKinley's Delight   Sherman
                         Crook                 Opal                 Swan
                         Dorflinger            Peacock              Third Degree
                         Duchess               Pick-Me-Up           Vi vary
                         Duke                  Rees                 W aldorf
                         Fourth Degree         Robert Burns
                     C LASSIFIED BY BASES                   33
              IN W H ICH V ERMOUT H IS USED

Adonis                Defender              Ideal
All Right             D elatour             I. D. K.
Ampersand             D elmonico            I. D. K. No. 2
Amsterdam             Dewey                 J apalac
Armour                Dowd                  J azz
Astoria               Down                  Jimmie Lee
Ba co                 Duchess               Johnson
Ballantine            Duke                  Lewis
Bamboo                Duplex                Liberal
Beadles ton           Easy                  Lieut. Colonel
              '                                        I
Beadleston No .. 2    Eddy                  Loftus
Bij ou                Emerald               Lone T ree
Bishop Ppker          Emerson               Love
Black .               Express               Lynne
Blackthorn            Fanciulli             M acLean
Bradford              F in de Siecle        M anhattan
Bridal                Florida               M anhattan Junior
Brighton              Fourth Degree         M anhattan Punch
Bronx                 Futurity              Marconi Wireless
Bronx No. 2           G ibson               M arguerite
Original Bronx        Gibson No. 2          M armalade
Brown                 Gladwin               M artini
Brut                  Good Times            D ry M artini
Chanl er              Gold                  M cKinley's Delight
Chan ticleer          Grand Vin             Merry W idow
Chauncey              Guion                 M etropole
Christ                H all                 Metropolitan
Club                  H alsey               Mill iken
Cooperstown           H amlin               Millionaire
Cornell               H arvard              Milo
Coronation            Hearn's               Montauk
Coxey                 H earst               M rs. Thompson
Creole                Highland              M y O wn                ...   • •     :.!.I..




                                                                 •
Criss Racquet Club    Hill iard             Narragansett                  -v
                                                                                ~~-
                                                                                            '
Crook                 Honolulu No. 2        N eud ine           -         ~            \
34            OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

 Newman                 Rory O'More              Third Degree
 New Orleans            Rosemary                 Thompson
·Newport                Rossington               Tipperary
 Norman die             Rossington No. 2         Tip Top
 Number Three           Ruby                     Trilby
 Nutting                St. Francis              Turf
 Olivet                 St. John                 Tyrone
 Opal                   Salome                   Vandervere
 Orange Blossom         Sazerac                  Vermouth (French)
 Palmetto               Shafter                  Vermouth (Italian)
 Passipe                Shake-up Silo            Vin Mariani
 Pell                   Sherman                  Vi vary
 Perfect                Silver                   Waldorf
 Perfect No. 2          Sir Jasper               Wall Street
 Pick-Me-Up             Somerset                 Walter Monteith
 Poet's Dream           Soul Kiss                West India
 Pomeroy                Star                     White Elephant
 Prince Henry           Stephen's                H. P. Whitney
 Queen                  Sunshine                 Whittaker
 Racquet Club           Swan                     Widow
 Rees                   Tango                    Woxum
 Robert Burns           Tango No. 2              Yale
 Rob Roy                Thanksgiving             York


                        COCKTAILS*

GENERAL DIRECTION: The best meth0d of making most cock-
tails is to put the ingredients into a shaker in the order named in the
recipe; then add cracked ·ice; then shake vigorously and long; then
strain the contents into the cocktail glass and serve promptly. Certain
recipes, however, call for "stirring." These are marked "(Stir),"
usually on the last line of the formula. Shaking makes a weaker drink.
     *
     Explanation or exposition of names of recipes starred has been
given earlier in the book. No effort has been made to compile an en-
cyclopedia, the author believing that research specialists interested in
American mores would appreciate being left a little wet virgin terri-
tory of their own.
             PRE-PROHIBITION COCKTAILS                35
ABSINTHE          Two dashes of Gin
                  Two-thirds Absinthe
                  One-third Water (Stir)
ADIRONDACK          One-half Orange Juice
                    One-half Gordon Gin
    Rugged, like its namesake. So rugged, indeed, it sur-
 vived through the prohibition stress and, except that
 the "gin" might be almost anything else, was one of the
 few cocktail recipes widely known and followed in this
 country. Bu~ most who made it and drank it did not know
 its original name!                               I
ADONiS          Two dashes Orange Bitters
                One-half Sherry
                One-half Italian Vermouth (Stir)
   Named in honor of a theatrical offering which first
 made Henry E. Dixey and Fanny Ward famous.
ALASKA            Dash of Orange Bitters
                  One-third Yellow Chartreuse
                  Two-thirds Tom Gin
ALEXANDER         One-third Gin
                  One-third Creme de Cacao
                  One-third Cream
ALL RIGHT         One-fifth Italian Vermouth
                  Four-fifths Nicholson Gin
                  Piece of Orange Peel in Glass
ALPHONSE          One-third Creme de Cacao
                  One-third Dry Gin
                  One-third Cream (no ice)
36         OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

   A cartoonist created a series of newspaper comics some
 thirty years ago, based upon traditional French polite-
 ness. "After you, my dear Gaston," "After you, my dear
 Alphonse," was the text or tenor of the captions.
AMARANTH         One dash Angostura Bitters
                 Two-thirds jigger Whiskey
                 Stir; fill from siphon; add powdered
                   Sugar
AMMONIA           Five drops Aromatic Spirits Ammonia
                  One jigger Water (Stir)
     Considered a cure, rather than a cause.
AMPERSAND        Two dashes Orange Bitters
                 One-third Brandy
                 One-third Tom Gin
                 One-third Italian Vermouth
                 Two dashes of Cura~o on top
AMSTERDAM One-third Vermouth (French                  or
            Italian)
          Dash Orange Bitters
          Two-thirds Nicholson's Gin (Stir)
          Lemon Peel, squeezed on top
ARCTIC*          Dash of Orange Bitters
                 One-half Red Calisaya Bark
                 One-half Sloe Gin (Stir)
ARDSLEY            Dash of Orange Bitters
                   One-half Red Calisaya
                   One-half Sloe Gin
     Residents of a famous and we~lthy community up the
              PRE-PROHIBITION COCKTAILS                 37
 Hudson, by that name, furnished a good deal of patron-
 age to the Bar.

ARMOUR * Two dashes Orange Bitters
         One-half jigger Sherry
         One-half jigger Italian Vermouth (Stir)

ASTOR           One dash of Lemon Juice
                One dash of Orange Juice
                One jigger of Gin
                One jigger of Swedish Punsch (S~ir)
     Perhaps after William Waldorf, who built the original
  Waldorf. However, chances are, it was originated either
  at t'he old Astor House or the Astor Hotel, and took its
  name from its bar of nativity.

ASTORIA         Two dashes Orange Bitters
                One-third Tom Gin
                Two-thirds French Vermouth (Stir)
    After the big annex to the old Waldorf, which at its
  opening, in I 897, became the main part of the establish-
  ment.

BACARpI        Two jiggers Bacardi Rum
               Two Limes
               A little .Sugar
               A little Grenadine

BACARDI        Juice of one Lime
No. 2          One-half spoonful Sugar
               A drink of Bacardi Rum
               A little Pineapple Juice
               Champagne glass, with shaved Ice
38           OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

BACO                Dash of Orange Bitters
                    One-quarter Italian Vermouth
                    One-quarter French Vermouth
                    One-half Gordon Gin (Stir)
                    Slice of Orange Peel, whiskey glass
BALLANTINE          Two dashes Orange Bitters
                    One-half jigger French Vermouth
                    One-half jigger Plymouth Gin
                    One dash Absinthe
BAMBOO              Two dashes Orange Bitters
                    One-half Sherry
                    One-half French Vermouth (Stir)
BEADLESTON * Two dashes Orange Bitters
             One-half jigger French Vermouth
             One-half jigger Whiskey (Stir)
BEADLESTON          One-half French Vermouth
No. 2 *             One-half Haig & Haig Scotch Whiskey
BIJOU               Two dashes Orange Bitters
                    One-half French Vermouth
                    One-half Grand Marnier (Stir)
BIRD                  Twist two pieces Orange Peel
                      Fill glass with fine Ice
                      Two-thirds Triple Sec Cura~ao
                      One-third Brandy
                      Two more Twisted Orange Peels
                      Serve as Creme de Menthe Frappe
       So named by the person on whom it was first tried.
     "That's a bird!" he exclaimed, smacking his lips.
              PR E-PROHil3ITION COCKTAILS               39
BISHOP        One-third French Vermouth
POKER         One-third Italian Vermouth
              One-third Plymouth Gin
              Dash of Amer Picon Bitters

BLACK         Two-thirds Italian Vermouth
              One-third Tom Gin

BLACK-         One pony Kirschwasser
JACK ,         One dash Brandy
               One pony Coffee (claret glass) '
 . Supposed to have been called that from knockout ef-
 fects consequent upon indulgence.

BLACK-        Two dashes Orange Bitters
THORN         One-third Italian Vermouth
              Two-thirds Sloe Gin (Stir)
   Sloe Gin, a distillation of the fruit of the blackthorn,
 gave authority to the drink and to its derivation as well.

BRADFORD Two dashes Orange Bitters
         One-half Italian Vermouth
         On~-half Tom Gin
         Twist Lemon Peel on top ·

BRANDY        One dash Angostura Bitters
              One dash Gin
              One_jigger Brandy (Stir)

BRANDY        One-half Brandy or Applejack
No. 2         One-half French Vermouth
              One dash Orange Bitters
40         OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

BRANDY       Cup one-half small Lemon
CRUSTA       Put in cocktail glass
             Dip edge of glass in powdered Sugar
             In mixing glass put two dashes Angostura
               Bitters
             Four drops Lemon Juice
             Two dashes Curas;ao
             Jigger Brandy (Stir and pour)

BRANT        Two dashes Angostura Bitters
             One-quarter White Mint
             Three-quarters Brandy (Stir)
             Piece of Lemon Peel on top

BRIDAL       Two dashes Orange Bitters
             Dash of Maraschino
             One-third jigger Italian Vermouth
             Two-thirds jigger Plymouth Gin (Stir)
             Piece of Orange Peel, twisted, in glass

BRIGHTON Dash of Orange Bitters
              One-half Tom Gin
              One-half Italian Vermouth (Stir)
   So called from the race course near Brighton Beach,
 where many Bar habitues spent their afternoons when
 that track topped the racing calendar.

BRONX        One-fourth Italian Vermouth
             One-fourth French Vermouth
             One-half Gordon Gin
             Piece of Orange Peel
               PR E-PROHIBITION COCKTAILS                 41
BRONX         Two jiggers Gin
No. 2         One jigger French Vermouth
              One-half jigger Orange Juice

BRONX         Two-thirds Gin
(WAL-         One-third Orange Juice
DORF)         Two slices fresh Pineapple in glass

BRONX            One-third Orange Juice
(Original)       Two-thirds Gin
       '         Dash of French Vermouth
                 Dash of Italian Vermouth
      Many claimants to the honor of inventing the Bronx
   have arisen. It was an Old Waldorf tradition that the in-
   ventor was Johnnie Solon (or Solan), popular as one of
   the best mixers behind its bar counter for most of the
   latter's history. This is Solon's own story of the Crea-
   tion-of the Bronx:
      "We had a cocktail ' in those days called the ;Duplex,
   which had a pretty fair demand. One day, I was making
 · one for a customer when in came Traverson, head waiter
   of the Empire Room-the main dining room in the orig-
   ina.1, Waldorf. A Duplex was composed of equal parts of
   French and Italian Vermouth, shaken up with squeezed
   orange peel, or tw_o dashes of Orange Bitters. Traverson
   said, 'Why don't you get up a new cocktail? I have a
   customer who says you can't do it.'
      " 'Can't I?' I replied.                                  <- '. ~
      "Well, I finished the Duple~ I was ~~ing, and a        ji:;'{:j~-~;­
   thought came to me. I poured mto a m1xmg glass the : /k~ .- -··
   equivalent of two jiggers of Gordon Gin. Then I filled ~~-
42            OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

  the jigger with orange juice, so that it made one-third
  of orange juice and two-thirds of Gin. Then into the mix-
  ture I put a dash each of Italian and French Vermouth,
  shaking the thing up. I didn't taste it myself, but I
  poured it into a cocktail glass and handed it to Traver-
  son and said: 'You are a pretty good judge. (He was.)
  See what you think of that.' Traverson tasted it. Then
  he swallowed it whole.
     " 'By God!' he said, 'you've really got something new!
  That will make a big hit. Make me another and I will
  take it back to that customer in the dining room. Bet
  you'll sell a lot of them. Have you got plenty of oranges?
  If you haven't, you better stock up, because I'm going
  to sell a lot of those cocktails during lunch.'
     "The demand for Bronx cocktails started that day.
  Pretty soon we were using a whole case of oranges a day.
. And then several cases.
     "The name? No, it wasn't really named directly after
  the borough or the river so-called. I had been at the
  Bronx Zoo a day or two before, and I saw, of course, a
  lot of beasts I had never known. Customers used to tell
  me of the strange animals they saw after a lot of mixed
  drinks. So when Traverson said to me, as he started to
  take the drink in to the customer, 'What'll I tell him
  is the name of this drink?' I thought of those animals,
  and said: 'Oh, you can tell him it is a "Bronx."'"

BROWN            Two dashes Orange Bitters
                 One-half French Vermouth
                 One-half Whiskey
       Ascribed to students of Brown University, an early
     Rockefeller Center.
              PRE-PROHIBITION COCKTAILS                 43
BRUT            Two dashes Orange Bitters
                One-half French Vermouth
                One-half Calisaya
                One dash Absinthe
   An extremely "dry" cocktail. "Brut" (French) means
 "raw." Many customers pronounced it "Brute," and so
 thought it.
BUNYAN*           Gordon Gin
                  One Olive
                  Carbonic on side

CALISAYA          Two dashes Orange Bitters
                  One jigger Calisaya (Stir)

CHAMPAGNE          One lump Sugar
                   Two dashes Angostura Bitters
                   One piece Lemon Peel, twisted
                   Fill glass with chilled Champagne

CHANLER            One small piece of Ice in mixing glass
                   Squeeze one piece of Lemon Peel
                   One-third Italian Vermouth
                   Two-thirds Old Tom Gin (whiskey
,,                   glass)
     "Sheriff Bob" Chanler, artist, married Lina Cavalieri,
   of the Metropolitan and made the front pages early in
   the century.

CHANTICLEER One-half Orange Gin
            One-half French Vermouth
            White of one Egg
            (Add a Cock's Comb if desired)
                      44              OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

                             Celebrated the local opening of Edmond Rostand's



      I
                  .        Chanticler .

      '               CHARLIE               One-third Lime Juice
          '

              '
                      CHAPLIN               One-third Sloe Gin
                                            One-third Apricot Brandy

                      CHARLIE               One pony Brahdy
                      ROSE                  Slice of Lemon placed on top (no Ice)

                      CHAUNCEY*             Dash of Orange Bitters
                                            One-fourth Tom Gin
                                            One-fourth Whiskey
                                            One-fourth Italian Vermouth
                                            One-fourth Brandy (Stir)

                      CHOCOLATE             One pony yellow Chartreuse
                                            One pony Maraschino
                                            Yolk of one Egg (claret glass)

                      CHOCOLATE             One-third Dubonnet
                      SOLDIER*              Two-thirds Nicholson's Gin
                                            Dash of Lime Juice

                      CHRIST                Two dashes Orange Bitters
                                            One-half Plymouth Gin
                                            One-half Italian Vermouth
                                            Two slices Orange Peel

                      CIDER                 Two dashes Angostura Bitters
                                            Whole Lemon Peel
...                                         One lump Ice in Collins glass
                                            One pint Cider (Stir)
             PRE-PROHIBITION COCKTAILS                  45
CLIQUET            Juice one Orange
                   One jigger Rye; flavored with St.
                      Croix Rum
                   One lump Ice (Stir)

CLOVER CLUB        Juice one-half Lemon
                   One-half spoon Sugar
                   One-half pony Raspberry Syrup
                   One-fourth pony White of Egg
                   One jigger Gin (star glass)
   A Philadelphia importation, originated in the bar of
 the old Bellevue-Stratford, where the Clover Club,
 c~mposed of literary, legal, financial and business lights
 of the Quaker City, often dined and wined, and wined
 agam.

CLUB               Dash of Angostura Bitters
                   One-third Italian Vermouth
                   Two-thirds Plymouth Gin (Stir)

COFFEE             Two ponies Port Wine
                   One pony Brandy
                   Yolk of one Egg
                   One-half spoon Sugar (claret glass)

COLONIAL           Dash of Orange Bitters
                   Two-thirds Plymouth Gin
                   One-third Red Calisaya (Stir)

COMMODORE          One-half teaspoon Sugar                            .
                   One dash Lemon Juice                           -


                                                         •
                                                              '

                   White of one Egg                               .
                                                                  .
                   One drink of Bacardi Rum
                  46        OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOO~




I ~~.~MODORE
                                     One dash of Grenadine
                                     One dash of Raspberry Syrup
                                     One-third Lemon Juice
                                     One-third Bourbon Whiskey
mr .;)\   /,..•
                                     One-third Creme de Cacao
                                     Dash Grenadine Syrup (champagne
                                       glass)
                  COOPERSTOWN Bronx, with fresh Mint
                  CORA               Clover Club made with Jamaica
                  MIDDLETON            Rum instead of Gin (claret glass)
                  CORNELL            One-half French Vermouth
                                     One-half Gordon Gin
                      A compliment to an institution at Ithaca, many of
                   whose alumni-mining engineers and others-used it to
                   toast Alma Mater.
                  CORONATION*        One-third Italian Vermouth
                                     One-third French Vermouth
                                     One-third Applejack
                                     One dash Apricot Brandy
                  COXEY*             Dash of Amer Picon Bitters
                                     One-half Italian Vermouth
                                     One-half Plymouth Gin (Stir)
                  CREOLE             Dash of Orange Bitters
                                     One-third jigger Absinthe
                                     One-third jigger Italian Vermouth
                  CRISS        Dash of Orange Bitters
                  RACQUET CLUB One-half French Vermouth
                 PRE-PROHIBITION COCKTAILS              47
                     One-half Plymouth Gin
                     Frappe with Orange Peel
    CROOK            Dash of Orange Bitters
                     One-third Absinthe ·
                     Two-thirds Italian Vermouth
    DANIEL           Orange Bitters
    DE ROUGE         One-half Tom Gin
                     One-half Red Calisaya (Stir)
    DEFENDER        Dash of Orange Bitters
                    One-half Tom Gin
                    One-half Italian Vermouth
n                   Two dashes Creme Yvette (Stir)
       The name of an American yacht which took care of
     one of Sir Thomas Lipton's early but seemingly endless
     "Shamrocks."
    DELATOUR         One-third Italian Vermouth
                     Two-thirds Gordon Gin
                     Two dashes Orange Bitters
                     Twist Orange Peel in glass
    DELMONICO      Dash of Orange Bitters
                   One-half French Vermouth
                   One-half Plymouth Gin
                   Two slices Orange Peel
       Adopted from the bar of Old Delmonico's, a long-
     famous New York restaurant.
    DEWEY*           Dash of Orange Bitters
                     One-half Plymouth Gin
                     One-half French Vermouth
               48            OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK


~~
~
 . o,
   , <.~
     ~.  DOCTOR                        One-half Lime Juice
                                       One-half Swedish Punsch
      ·i
                                      Juice one-half Lemon
' ,V.          DR. COOK*
- .   ~    .                          White of one Egg
                                      Two dashes Maraschino
                                      Three-fourths Gin (claret glass)
               DORFLINGER * Dash of Orange Bitters
                            One-third Green Absinthe
                            Two-thirds Plymouth Gin
               DORLANDO           Same as Daniel de Rouge
                  After an Italian marathon runner in the Olyrµpic
                games in London, 1908.
               DOWD                   One-half Italian Vermouth
                                      One-half Gordon Gin
               DOWN                    Dash of Orange Bitters
                                       One-third Italian Vermouth
                                       Two-thirds Gordon Gin (with
                                          Olive)
                      What else, in faith, than a county in Ireland-ancient
                    home of many American bartenders?
               DUCHESS                Dash of Orange Bitters
                                      One-third Absinthe
                                      One-third French Vermouth
                                      One-third Italian Vermouth
               DUKE                    Dash of Orange Bitters
                                       Two dashes, each of Absinthe and
                                        Anisette
                                       One jigger French Vermouth
            PRE-PROHIBITION COCKTAILS         49
DUPLEX         Two dashes Orange Bitters, or two
                squeezes of Orange Peel
               One-half Italian Vermouth
               One-half French Vermouth
EASY           Dash of Orange Bitters
               One-eighth Italian Vermouth
               Seven-eighths Booth's Gin
EDDY*          One-third Gordon Gin
               One-third French Vermouth
               One-third Or~ge Juice
EMERALD        Dash of',Grange Bitters
               One-half Italian Vermouth
               One-half Irish Whiskey (Stir)
EMERSON        Juice one-half Lime
               Small teaspoon Maraschino
               One-third Italian Vermouth ,
               One-third Tom Gin (Stir)

EWING          One drop Angostura Bitters
               One jigger Whiskey (Stir)

EXPRESS        Dash of Orange Bitters
               One-half Italian Vermouth
               One-half Scotch Whiskey (Stir)

FANCIULLI      One-fourth Fernet Branca
               One-fourth Italian Vermouth
               One-half Whiskey
               Frappe or not. Devotees usually took
                 it without Ice.
50         OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

FIN DE SIECLE *        Orange Bitters
                       One dash Amer Picon Bitters
                       One-third Italian Vermouth
                       Two-thirds Plymouth Gin (Stir)

FLOATER                Fill glass with shaved Ice
                       Three-fourths Gilka Ki.immel
                       One-fourth Brandy
    There is equal authority for a contention that this was
 called after a racehorse owned by the late James R.
 Keene, or after an individual numerically important,
 and who was transported into various precincts at dif-
 ferent hours of Election Day and thereby enabled to
 vote early and often, as the saying was.

FLORIDA                One-half Italian Vermouth
                       One-half Orange Juice

FOURTH DEGREE One-third Italian Vermouth
              Two-thirds Plymouth Gin
              Dash of Absinthe

FULL HOUSE            Dash of Angostura Bitters
                      One-third Yellow Chartreuse
                      One-third Benedictine
                      One-third Apple Whiskey
   The name is indicative of the sway once en joyed by
 what was the great American indoor game in B.C. days
 -that is to say Before Contract, or Before Culbertson.

FUTURITY*              Dash of Angostura Bitters
                       One-half Sloe Gin
                       One-half Italian Vermouth (Stir)
             PRE-P ROHIBITION COCKTAILS                 SI
GIBSON               One-half French Vermouth
                     One-half Dry Tom Gin (Stir)
                     Squeeze Lemon Peel on top
GIBSON No. 2             One-third French Vermouth
                         Two-thirds Plymouth Gin
                         Orange Peel on top
GIN                      Dash of Orange Bitters
                         One jigger Tom Gin (Stir)
GINGER ALE             One lump Ice
                       Two , dashes Angostura Bitters
                       One whole Lemon Peel
                    ·, Fill with cold Ginger Ale
                     I

GLADWIN                  Three-fourths Gordon Gin
                         One-eighth Italian Vermouth
                         One-eighth French Vermouth
GLOOM LIFTER             Same as Clover Club
                         Irish Whiskey inste~d of Gin
                         One-half teaspoon Brandy
GOAT'S DELIGHT One-half Kirschwasser
                       One-half Brandy
                       One dash Orgeat Syrup
                       One spoon Cream
                       One dash Absinthe
   As to who was the original "goat'~ cheered by this
 cup, records are at least vague.
GOLD                     Dash of Orange Bitters
                         One-half Tom Gin
                         One-half Italian Vermouth
52              OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

       After the product of "them thar hills," finders of
     which came to the Bar in great numbers.
GOOD TIMES * Dash of Orange Bitters
             One-third French Vermouth
             Two-thirds Booth's Gin (Stir;
               Olive)
GRAND VIN             One-fourth Italian Vermouth
                      One-fourth French Vermouth
                      One-half Plymouth Gin
GUION                 Dash of Orange Bitters
                      One-half Plymouth Gin
                      One-half Italian Vermouth
                      One spoon of Benedictine on top
       Called after a member of the family which owned,
     or had founded, the Guion line of steamships.
HALL                  Dash of Orange Bitters
                      One-third jigger Italian Vermouth
                      One-third French Vermouth
                      One-third Nicholson Gin (Olive)
HALSEY                One-half Gordon Gin
                      One-fourth Italian Vermouth
                      One-fourth French Vermouth
                      Squeeze Orange Peel (whiskey glass)
       Named ; n compliment to a well known stock-broker
     and patron of the Bar.
HAMLIN      M
                    One-third Italian Vermouth
                    Two-thirds Nicholson Gin
       Took its name from Harry Hamlin of Buffalo, an
             PRE- PROHIBITION COCKTAILS              53
 enthusiastic automobilist in the days when there were
 far more enthusiasts than automobiles.
HARVARD         Dash of Orange Bitters
                Two-fifths jigger Brandy
                Three-fifths Italian Vermouth (Stir)
                Fill from chilled siphon
   Named after a school for young men, whose site is
 contiguous to the Charles River, in a suburb of Boston.
 Alumni who drank it sometimes lost the "Harvard
 accent."                                                  I   I

HEARN'S        Dash of Manhattan Bitters
               One-third Whiskey
               One-third Italian Vermouth
               One-third Absinthe
HEARST*        One dash Orange Bitters
               One dash Angostura Bitters
               One-half jigger Italian Vermouth
               One-half jigger Plymouth Gin
HIGHLAND       Dash of Orange Bitters
               One-half Scotch
               One-half Italian Vermouth (Stir)
HILLIARD       Dash of Peychaud Bitters
               One-third Italian Vermouth
               Two-thirds Dry Gin (Stir)
HOFFMAN        Two dashes Orange Bitters
HOUSE          One-third French Vermouth
               Two-thirds Plymouth Gin
               Squeeze L~mon Peel on top
54         OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR. BOOK

   Conceived at the old Hotel in Madison Square whose
 bar was famous before the Old Waldorf was built,
 for the length of its brass rail, the Bougereau painting
 of nudities on the wall, and the notability of many of its
 patrons. Served at Old Waldorf Bar, but was not in the
 original Bar Book.
HOLLAND GIN             Dash of Angostura Bitters
                        One jigger Holland Gin (Stir)
HONOLULU                Two dashes Angostura Bitters
                        One teaspoon Lime Juice
                        One teaspoon Orange Juice
                        One jigger Tom Gin
                        Twist Lemon Peel on top
HONOLULU No. 2          One-third Italian Vermouth
                        One-third French Vermouth
                        One third Whiskey
HONOLULU No. 3 Two jiggers Gin
               A little less than half a jigger of
                  Orange Cura~o
               Juice of half a Lime
HOP FROG                Two-thirds Lime Juice
                        One-third Brandy
HOP TOAD                Juice of one-half Lime
                        One-third Jamaica Rum
                        One-third Apricot Brandy
HOWARD                  Dash of Orange Bitters
                        One jigger Plymouth Gin (Stir)
                        Two dashes Angostura Bitters
              PRE-PROHIBITION COCKTAILS
                                                        55
IDEAL               One-third Italian Vermouth
                    Two-thirds Plymouth Gin
                    Flavor with Grapefruit
I. D. K.            One-third Italian Vermouth
                    Two-thirds Nicholson Gin
                    Orange Peel (Stir. Bar glass)
I. D. K. No. 2      One-fifth Italian Vermouth
                    Four-fifths Nicholson Gin
                    Sprig. of Mint
JACK ROSE            Juice of Lime
(or Jacque Rose)    'One-third Grenadine Syrup
                     Two-thirds Applejack
    So called because of its pink color, the exact shade of
 a Jacqueminot rose, when properly concocted.
JAMES               Dash of Orange Bitters
                    Two-thirds PlymoutH Gin
                    One-third Red Calisaya (Stir)
JAPALAC              Juice one-fourth Orange
                     One jigger French Vermouth
                     One jigger Whiskey
                    ·Dash of Raspberry Syrup
   So styled in compliment to a salesman who sold a
 product of that name; not because it would enamel a
 digestive apparatus.
JAPANESE            Dash of Baker's Bitters
                    Two dashes Orgeat Syrup
                    One jigger Brandy
                    One slice Lemon Peel (Stir)
56         OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

JAZZ               Same as Bronx, with plenty of
                      Orange Juice
    Commemorating the sudden but widespread popu-
 larity of modern rhythmical measures when the century
 was still young.
JERSEY            Dash of Baker's Bitters
                  Two dashes Syrup
                  One jigger Apple Whiskey (Stir)
JIMMIE LEE        Dash of Peychaud Bitters
                  One-third French Vermouth
                  One-third Italian Vermouth
                  One-third Plymouth Gin
                  Serve with Orange Peel
JITNEY *          One-half Gin
                  One-quarter Lemon Juice
                  One-fourth Orange Juice
                  A little Sugar
JOCKEY CLUB       Dash of Orange Bitters
                   One jigger Dry Gin (Stir)
   Not after the perfume, but after the American Jockey
 Club itself.
JOHNSON           Dash of Orange Bitters
                  One-third jigger Plymouth Gin
                  One-third jigger French Vermouth
                  One-third jigger Italian Vermouth
                     (Stir)
                  Piece of Orange Peel on top
LEWIS             One-half French Vermouth
                  One•half Plymouth Gin
              PRE-PROHIBITION COCKTAILS
                                                     57
    Named, not after Sinclair, but before the author of
  "Main Street" had discovered Broadway.
LIBERAL           Dash of Orange Bitters
                  Three dashes Amer Picon
                  One-half Whiskey
                  One-half Italian Vermouth (Stir)
LIEUTENANT One-half French Vermouth
COLONEL    One-half Amer Picon Bitters
LOFTUS            One-third French Vermouth
                  One-third Italian Vermouth
                  One-third
                    I
                            Absinthe
    Called in compliment to Cissie Loftus, famous Eng-
 lish comedienne and mimic, long a popular top-liner.
LONE TREE         Dash of Orange Bitters
                  One-half Italian Vermouth
                  One-half Plymouth Gin
    After the 1899 equivalent of a "nineteenth hole"-a
 tree which stood alone in a secluded part of a 'golf
 course near Philadelphia. Players on that course fre-
 quented the Old Waldorf Bar.
                        '
LOVE             Martini Cocktail, with White of one
                  Egg added

LYNNE            One-half French Vermouth
                 One-half Gordon Gin

MAcLEAN          One-quarter Italian Vermouth              -   .


                 One-quarter French Vermouth
                 One-half Gordon Gin
                                                       •   .
58         OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

   In honor of John R. MacLean, long proprietor of
 the Cincinnati Enquirer and the Washington Post.
McKINLEY'S         One dash Absinthe
DELIGHT            Two dashes Cherry Brandy
                   Two-thirds Whiskey
                   One-third Italian Vermouth (Stir)
MANHATTAN         Dash of Orange Bitters
                  One-half Italian Vermouth
                  One-half Rye Whiskey (Stir)
                  Serve with Maraschino Cherry
    Origin somewhat obscure. Probably first called after a
 well known club of that name, and not after an island
 famed for many years as the abode and domain of a
 certain "Tiger."
MANHATTAN          Two dashes Orange Bitters
No. 2              Two pinches Sugar
                   One-half Italian Vermouth
                   One-half Irish Whiskey
MANHATTAN          One-half Vermouth
JUNIOR             One-half Whiskey
                   Piece of Orange Peel
MANHATTAN          Manhattan cocktail in red ground
PUNCH               glass.-Editor's Note: Last three
(Wa dorf)           words denote a container, not an
                    ingredient.
MARBLE.HILL One-quarter Dubonnet
            One-quarter Orange Juice
            One-half Gordon Gin
              PRE-PROHIBITION COCKTAILS                 59
MARCONI            Two dashes Orange Bitters
WIRELESS*          One-third Italian Vermouth
                   Two-thirds Applejack
MARGUERITE         Dash of Orange Bitters
                   One-half French Vermouth
                   One-half Plymouth Gin
MARMALADE          One-quart.er French Vermouth
                   One-quarter Italian Vermouth
                   One-half Nicholson Gin
                   Two sli~es Orange
MARTINI            D~h of Orange Bitters
                   One-half Tom Gin
                   One-half Italian Vermouth (Stir)
                   Serve with a green Olive
                   Twist piece of Lemon Peel on top
MARTINI No. 2      Two jiggers Gin
                   One-half jigger Italian Vermouth
                   One-half jigger French Vermouth
                     (Stir)
                   Serve as above
MARTINI (Dry) Two-thirds Gin
              One-third French (or_.Sec) Vermouth
                (Stir)
              Serve as above
MARTINI           One-half Gin {preferably dry)              _;:;. ;~
(Dry No. 2)       One-half French Vermouth (Stir)           /'.<!~1.:·
                  Serve as above                         . ft-,;y/ ...
   Modern practice prescribes shaking for a Dry Martini. ~~,-~-
             60            OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

              This, however, weakens the mixture and used to be dis-



I
    ..        countenanced by barmen who believed in tradition .
         ,   MERRY WIDOW*             One-half French Vermouth
'                                     One-half Dubonnet
     ~


             METROPOLE               One dash Peychaud Bitters
                                     One dash Orange Bitters
                                     One-half French Vermouth
                                     One-half Brandy (Stir; Mara-
                                       schino Cherry )
                 Attributed to a once well known and somewhat lively
              hotel, whose bar was long a center of life after dark
              in the Times Square district.
             METROPOLITAN           Two-thirds Manhattan Bitters
                                    One-third Italian Vermouth (Stir)
                   After a New York club, long popularly called "The
                  Millionaires'."
             MIDDLETON                One-half Jamaica Rum
                                      One-quarter Grenadine Syrup
                                      One-quarter Holland Gin
                                      One White of Egg
                                      Juice of one Lemon
             MILLIKEN                 Three dashes Amer Picon Bitters
                                      One-quarter French Vermouth
                                      One-quarter Italian. Vermouth
                                      One-half Gordon Gin
             MILLIONAIRE              Dry Martini, with Grenadine on
                                        top
             MILO"'                   One-sixth Pomelo Bitters
                                      One-third Italian Vermouth
              PRE-PROHIBITION COCKTAILS                61
                        One-half Plymouth Gin
MONAHAN                  Dash of Amer Picon Bitters
SPECIAL                  Two-thirds Whiskey
                         One-third Italian Vermouth (Stir)
   Called after Mike· Monahan, one of the Waldorf
 bar-keepers, its inventor.
MONTANA               One-third Brandy
                      One-third French Vermouth
                      One-third Port Wine (Stir)
   A compliment to the field of operations of many early
 patrons of the Bar.  ·
MONTAUK                  One-third French Vermouth
                         One-third Italian Vermouth
                         One-third Gin
                         Two dashes Peychaud Bitters
                           (Stir)
                         Serve in '' old-fashioned" glass
    Named about the time that men of vision began to
 talk of Montauk Point as the Western terminus of trans-
 atlantic steamship lines.
MOUNTAIN               Whiskey glass two-thirds full of
                         Cider
                       One whole Egg
                       Pepper and Salt to taste

MRS. THOMPSON          One-third French Vermouth
                       Two-thirds Gordon Gin

MY OWN                 One-half French Vermouth
                       One-half Plymouth Gin
62           01!> WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

NARRAGANSETI One-third Italian Vermouth
                   Two-thirds Rye Whiskey
                   One dash Anisette (Stir)
   After Narragansett Pier, during the "Nineties" the
 summer abode of many wealthy patrons of the Old
 Waldorf Bar.
NETHERLAND              Dash of Orange Bitters
                        Two-thirds Brandy
                        One-third Cura~o (Stir)
       Possibly invented at the Hotel Netherland, a con-
     temporary of the Old Waldorf.
NEUDINE                Dash of Orange Bitters
                       One-half Italian Vermouth
                       One-half French Vermouth (Stir)
NEWMAN                  Dash of Amer Picon Bitters
                        One-third French Vermouth
                        One-third Italian Vermouth
                        One-third Plymouth Gin
      Patronymic of a man who for a time ran the old Hay-
     market, a widely famed Tenderloin resort.
NEW ORLEANS             Dash of Orange Bitters
                        One jigger Italian Vermouth
                        Shake; fizz glass; fill from siphon
NEWPORT                 One-fifth Italian Vermouth
                        Two-fifths French Vermouth
                        Two-fifths Gordon Gin
                        Orange Peel
NORMANDIE               Dash of Orange Bitters
              PRE-PROHIBITION COCKTAILS

                         One-half jigger Apple Whiskey
                         One-half Italian Vermouth (Stir)
     The name of a hotel in Broadway's early spotlight
  district, patronized by sportsmen and sports.
NUMBER THREE           One dash Orange Bitters
                       One dash Anisette
                       One-quarter French Vermouth
                       Three-quarters Nicholson Gin
                       Squeeze Lemon Peel on top
NUTTING                D~h of Orange Bitters
                       On~-half French Vermouth
                    ' One-half Plymouth Gin (Stir)
    Its namesake was Col. Andrew J. Nutting, of Brook-
  lyn, an ardent patron of the Bar for many years.

OJEN                   One teaspoon Peychaud Bitters
                       One jigger Ojen
                       Serve in claret glass with Seltzer

OLD-FASHIONED One-quarter lump Sugar
WHISKEY                Two spoons Water
                       One dash Angostura
                       One jigger Whiskey
                       One piece Lemon Peel



                                                            II
                       One lump Ice ·
                       Serve with small spoon
    This was brought to the Old Waldorf in the days of
 its "sit-down" Bar, and was introduced by, or in honor
 of, Col. Jame~ E. Pepper, of ~entucky, pro~rietor of a    1  " ..

 celebrated whiskey of the penod. It was said to have ~ . . · ·~ ~
 been the invention of a bartender at the famous Penden-     - ··
                64            OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK




I
                 rus Club m Louisville, of which Col. Pepper was a
            .    member.
        '       OLIVET                 Dash of Orange Bitters
I~ . 1:~!1'                            One-half Tom Gin
                                       One-half Italian Vermouth
                                       Stir; one Olive in glass
                OPAL                   Dash of Orange Bitters
                                       One-half Plymouth Gin
                                       One-half French Vermouth
                                       Stir; one dash of Absinthe on top
                ORANGE                  One-third Orange Juice
                BLOSSOM                 One-third Tom Gin
                                        One-third Italian Vermouth
                        May have been named by a youthful bartender with
                     romantic spring n~tions, though the weight of evidence
                     ascribes it to some young bridegroom or other who
                     wanted something novel to use at his final stag party.
                ORANGE                  One-half Orange Juice
                BLOSSOM No. 2           One-half Gin (bar glass)
                PALMETTO                Dash of Orange Bitters
                                        One-half St. Croix Rum
                                        One-half Italian Vermouth (Stir)
                PAN-AMERICAN            One-half Lemon, muddled
                                        Three dashes Syrup
                                        One jigger Whiskey
                PASSIPE                 One-third French Vermouth
                                        Two-thirds House of Lords Gin
                                        Juice of one Orange
             PRE-PROHIBITION COCKTAILS

PEACOCK               Two dashes Amer Picon Bitters
                      One dash Absinthe
                      One jigger Brandy
PEG 0'                One-half Lime Juice
MY HEART              One-half Bacardi Rum
                      Color with Grenadine
PELL                  One-half Italian Vermouth
                      One-half Nicholson Gin (Olive)
PEPLO                 A Pousse Cafe, shaken and strained
                      (Se~ . "Fancy Potations and Other-
                       wise")
                  I
PERFECT               One-third Italian Vermouth
                      One-third French Vermouth
                      One-third Plymouth Gin
                      Frappe with an Orange Peel

PERFECT No. 2         One-third Gin
                      One-third Italian Vermouth
                      One-third French Vermouth (Stir)
                      Serve with a green Olive
                      Twist piece of Lemon Peel on top

PICK-ME-UP        Two dashes Acid or Lemon Phos-
                    phate
                  One-half Italian Vermouth
                  One-half Absinthe              r.--,
PING PONG         Dash of Orange Bitters                                          --
                  One-half Sloe Gin
                  One-half French Vermouth
                                                           .~•.,· 1,·~,-.,-],,,
                  66            OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

                       Named after a game said to have originated in Eng-
~,
 ,c                 land, but which was installed in the big room next to the
                    Old Waldorf Bar in its early days. Bar habitues learned
~· ' r •
                    to play it, but sometimes experienced difficulty in hitting
· ... .. ·. _;;     the right ball, claiming three or four were going over
                    the net at one time, instead of one.
                  POET'S DREAM             One-third Benedictine
                                           One-third French Vermouth
                                           One-third dry Gin
                                           Lemon Peel squeezed on top
                  POLO                 One-fourth Lemon Juice
                                       One-fourth Orange Juice
                                       One-half Rum
                      Not after Marco, the adventurer, but after the game
                    which, during the "Nineties," was little known except to
                    the fashionable. That was before Meadowbrook had
                    hurled its young men and its wealth into a comparative
                    void in our National outdoor life.
                  POMEROY                  One-third French Vermouth
                                           One-third Italian Vermouth
                                           One-third Gordon Gin
                                           One Orange Peel
                  PORTO RICO               Sloe Gin Rickey with dash of
                                             Grenadine
                  PRAIRIE                  One pony Tom Gin
                  (Often called            One Egg, in claret glass
                  "Prairie.... Chicken")   A little Pepper and Salt
                                           Cover with Gin
                                           Serve with napkin
             PRE-PROHIBITION COCKTAILS

PRINCE               Two dashes Orange Bitters m
                      glass
                     Whiskey
                     Two dashes Creme de Menthe
                      on top
PRINCE HENRY* Martini, with dash of Creme de
               Menthe
PRINCETON              Dash of Orange Bitters
                       Two-thirds jigger Tom Gin
                       Stir; fill with Seltzer
    After a college spmewhere in New Jersey, which used
 to send a lot of young men to the Old Waldorf Bar. Or,
 at least, they came.
QUEEN                One-third Italian Vermouth
                     One-third French Vermouth
                     One-third Gin
                     Frappe with fine slice of Pine-
                       apple
RACQUET CLUB * Dash of Orange Bitters
               One-half Plymouth Gin
               One-half French Vermouth
               Orange Peel
RALEIGH              Juice of one-half Lime
                     Juice of one-half Orange
                     Pony of Bacardi Rum
                     Dash of Grenadine Syrup
REES                 Wash inside of mixing glass with
                      green Absinthe
    68            OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

                            One dash Angostura Bitters
                            One-tenth Italian Vermouth
                            Nine-tenths Tom Gin (no Ice)

'   .R IDING CLUB*          Dash of Angostura Bitters
                            One-half pony Acid Phosphate
                            One jigger Red Calisaya (Stir)

    ROBERT BURNS              Dash of Orange Bitters
                               One dash of Absinthe
                               One-quarter Italian Vermouth
                               Three-quarters Scotch Whiskey
                                 (Stir)
           It may have been na~ed after the celebrated Scots-
         man. Chances are, however, that it was christened in
         honor of a cigar salesman, who "bought" in the Old Bar.

    ROBIN                    One-half Calisaya Bitters
                             One-half Scotch Whiskey
                             Stir; serve with a Cherry

    ROB ROY*                 Dash of Orange Bitters
                             One-half Scotch
                             One-half Italian Vermouth
                               (Stir)

    RORY O'MORE              Dash of Angostura Bitters
                             One-half Irish Whiskey
                             One-half Italian Vermouth
                               (Stir)

    ROSE                     One-fourth Grand Marnier
                             Three-quarters Dry Gin (Stir)
             P R E-PROHIBITION COCKTAILS

ROSEMARY *        One-half French Vermouth
                  One-half Bourbon Whiskey
ROSSINGTON        One and one-half jiggers Italian
                    Vermouth
                  Two and one-half jiggers Gor-
                    don Gin
                  Peel of Orange on top
ROSSINGTON No. 2 -One-third Dry Gin
                  One-third Italian Vermouth
                , One-third French Vermouth
                  Orange Peel
RUBY              One-third French Vermouth
                  Two-thirds Cherry Brandy
                  Ten drops Acid Phosphate
                  One dash Orange Bitters
                  Two dashes Maraschino
RUSSIAN                 Two-thirds Brandy
                        One-third Orange Juice
                        Dash of Orange Bitters
                        Dash of Absinthe
    (Another "Russian" contained Vodka, but was seldom
 called for.)
ST. FRANCIS*           Two dashes Gordon Orange
                         Bitters ·
                       One-half Gordon Gin
                       One-half French Vermouth
                       Serve with stuffed Olive            . ;-:~
ST. JOHN*              Ma~tini, with dash of Orange :i/{~/
                          Bitters and Lemon      Peel : /J;~_;.: ..
                          (whiskey glass)                ~?'!
70          OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR. BOOK

ST. PETER*         Juice of two Limes
                   One-fourth teaspoon Sugar
                   One-half jigger Gordon Gin
SALOM:f:*          Two dashes Absinthe
                   One-half Italian Vermouth
                   One-half Dubonnet (Stir)
SAM WARD           Cup a small Lemon
                   Fill with fine Ice
                   Fill with Yellow Chartreuse
SANTIAGO           One-half Orange Juice
                   One-half Bacardi Rum
                   Color with Grenadine
SAVANNAH           Juice one-half Orange
                   Drink of Gin
                   White of one Egg (claret glass)
                   Dash of Creme de Cacao
SAZERAC            Few dashes of Peychaud Bitters
                   Dash of Absinthe
                   Dash of Italian Vermouth
                   One jigger Bourbon or Scotch
SEPTEMBER          Juice of one Lime
MORN*              One jigger Bacardi Rum
                   White of one Egg (claret glass)
                   Color with Grenadine
SEPTEMBER          Clover Club; made with Bacardi in-
MORN No. 2           stead of Gin
SHAFTER*           Dash of Orange Bitters
             PRE-PROHIBITION COCKTAILS               7I
                  One-half Nicholson Gin
                  One-half Italian Vermouth (Stir)
SHAKE-UP-SILO One-half French Vermouth
              One-half Plymouth Gin
SHERMAN           Dash each, Angostura and Orange
                    Bitters
                  Three dashes Absinthe
                  Two-thirds jigger Italian Vermouth
                  O~e third jigger Whiskey

SILVER            Martini, with dash of Maraschino
SIR JASPER        Dash of Orange Bitters
                  One-third Italian Vermouth
                  One-third French Vermouth
                  One-third Tom Gin (Stir)
                  Twist Lemon Peel on top
SLOE GIN          Dash of Orange Bitters
                  Two-thirds Sloe Gin
                  One-third Plymouth Gin (Stir)
SODA              Two dashes Angostura Bitters
                  Two lumps Ice (Collins glass)
                  Two pieces Lemon Peel
                  One bottle Lemon Soda
SOMERSET          One-fourth Italian Vermouth
                  One-fourth French Vermouth
                  One-half Tom Gin (Stir)
SOUL KISS         One-third French Vermouth
                  Two-thirds Dry Gin
72            OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

                         White of Egg (bar glass)
       After a musical comedy of that name, which, because
     of its appellation, stirred up a good many ideas among
     the young-and middle-aged-about the latter part of
     the first decade of the century.
SOUTHGATE             One-fourth lump Sugar dissolved in
                        one-half pony of Water
                      Dash of Boonekamp Bitters
                      One jigger Whiskey
                      One piece twisted Lemon Peel
STAR                  Dash of Orange Bitters
                      One-half Apple Whiskey
                      One-half Italian Vermouth (Stir)
STEPHEN'S             One-third Sherry
                      One-third French Vermouth
                      One-third Benedictine
STRAWBERRY            Dash of Orange Bitters
                      Juice of twelve Strawberries, or one
                        pony of Syrup
                      Three-quarters Brandy
                      One dash of Maraschino (Stir)
                      Strawberry in glass
SUBURBAN *             Dash of Orange Bitters
                       Dash of Angostura Bitters
                       One-fifth Port Wine
                       One-fifth Jamaica Rum
                       Three-fifths Whiskey
SUNSHINE               Dash of Orange Bitters
                       One-eighth Italian Vermouth
             PRE-PROHIBITION COCKTAILS             73
                      One-eighth French Vermouth
                      Three-fourths Tom Gin
SWAN                  Juice of one Lime
                      One-half jigger Swan Gin
                      One-half jigger French Vermouth
                      Two dashes Angostura Bitters
                      Two dashes Absinthe
TANGO                  One-half French Vermouth
                       One-half Dry Gin
                       Wh~te of Egg
   After the Argentinian dance which first became pop-
 ular during the early days of the modern dance craze,
 in 1912 or 1913.
TANGO No. 2           One-fifth French Vermouth
                      One-fifth Italian Vermouth
                      One-fifth Rum
                      One-fifth Benedictine
                      One-fifth Orange Juice
THANKSGIVING          No Bitters
                      One-half Italian Vermouth
                      One-half Tom Gin
                      Piece of Orange Peel
THIRD DEGREE*         One-eighth French Vermouth
                      Seven-eighths Plymouth Gin
                      Several dashes Absinthe
THOMPSON              One-thU:d Italia~ Vermouth     •
                      Two-thirds Whiskey                   ·' .
                      One piece each of Orange Peel,     ::,,_~ .;
                        Pineapple, Lemon Peel              ~ ""'
74           OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

   After Denman Thompson, the actor, who made "The
 Old Homestead" famous, and upon whom that play had
 equally beneficent results.

THREE-TO-ONE          One-half Lime Juice
                      One-third Apricot Brandy
                      Two-thirds Dry Gin

TIPPERARY            Two-thirds Sloe Gin
                     One-third French Vermouth
                     Teaspoon of Lemon Juice
   Invented long before the wartime song of that name
 was heard, so that it must be considered a direct name-
 sake of an Irish county, and so called by a fond exile.

TIP TOP               Four dashes Benedictine
                      Two dashes Angostura Bitters
                      One jigger French Vermouth (Stir)
                      Serve with Lemon Peel

TOM GIN               Dash of Orange Bitters
                      One jigger Tom Gin (Stir)

TRILBY*               Dash of Orange Bitters
                      One-third French Vermouth
                      Two-thirds Tom Gin
                      One dash of Creme Yvette (Stir)

TURF                   Dash of Angostura Bitters
                       One-third Italian Vermouth
                       Two-thirds Holland Gin (Stir)
       At times a good half-possibly two-thirds-of the
     crowd in the Bar were interested in racing.
             PRE-PROHIBITION COCKTAILS               75
TUXEDO             Dash of Orange Bitters
                   Two-thirds Plymouth Gin
                   One-third Sherry (Stir)
    After a settlement on the Erie R. R. where many
  customers of the Bar had country places.
TYRONE           Dash of Orange Bitters
                 Two-thirds Sloe Gin
                 One-third Italian Vermouth (Stir)
UNION            Dash of Orange Bitters
LEAGUE*          One-third Port Wine
                 Two-thirds Tom Gin (Stir)
                   '
VANDERVERE One-half Nicholson Gin
           One-quarter French Vermouth
           One-quarter Italian Vermouth (Stir)
           Twist Lemon Peel on top
VANWYCK          Dash of Orange Bitters '
                 One-third Sloe Gin
                 Two-thirds Tom Gin
VERMOUTH         Dash of Orange Bitters
(French)         One jigger French Vermouth
VERMOUTH        Dash of Orange Bit~_ers
(Italian)       One jigger Italian Vermouth
VIN MARIANI      Dash of Orange Bitters
                 One-third Italian Vermouth
                 Two-thirds Vin Mariani
VIVARY          .Dash of Orange Bitters
                 One-half Italian Vermouth
          76          OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

o'i,< •                         One-half French Vermouth

~WALDORF
                                One dash Absinthe


f;'~
                                Dash of Manhattan Bitters
                                One-third Whiskey
                                One-third Absinthe
                                One-third Italian Vermouth
          WALDORF-              Pony of Benedictine on Ice
          ASTORIA               Cover and build mound with sweet-
                                  ened Whipped Cream
          WALDORF      Juice one-half Lemon
          GLOOM-LIFTER One-half teaspoon Brandy
                       One jigger Irish Whiskey
                       White of one Egg
                       One-half teaspoon Sugar
                       Dash of Raspberry Syrup
                       Dash of Grenadine
          WALL STREET           One-third Italian Vermouth
                                Two-thirds Gordon Gin
                                Squeeze of Orange Peel on top
          WALTER                One-half Italian Vermouth
          MONTEITH              One-half Nicholson Gin
          WEST INDIA            Dash of Angostura Bitters
                                One-half Tom Gin
                                One-half French Vermouth (Stir)
          WHISKEY               Dash of Angostura Bitters
                                One dash Gin
                                 One jigger of Whiskey (Stir)
               See also Old-Fashioned Whiskey.
             PRE-PROHIBITION COCKTAILS
                                                      77
WHITE                One-third Italian Vermouth
ELEPHANT             Two-thirds Dry Gin
                     White of one Egg

WHITE                Fill lemonade glass .two-thirds with
GRAPE-JUICE            Ice and Grape Juice
                     Add Juice of Lime
                     Fill with Seltzer

H. P. WHITNEY          One-quarter Italian Vermouth
                       One-quarter French Vermouth
                       One-half Plymouth Gin
                       I\rappe with Orange Peel
   A noted patron of the turf who frequented the Bar
 before he and his friends moved up to the Brook Club.

WHITTAKER           Dash of Orange Bitters
                    One-third Italian Vermouth
                    Two-thirds Red Calisaya (Stir)

WIDOW               One-half jigger Gordon Gin
                    One-half jigger French Vermouth
                    Juice of an Orange

WILD CHERRY         Dash of Orange Bitters
                    One-half Tom Gin .
                    One-half Cherry Brandy (Stir)

WOXUM               One-half pony Yellow Chartreuse
                    One-half jigger Apple Whiskey     ~
                    One-half jigger Italian Vermouth    · . ·
                      (Stir)                               ·- ~
  Some think it is aboriginally American, and ascribe •   · ~
        78             OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

             it to a "bunch of Indians," so-called, who occasionally



I
.            made whoopee-or, as it was said at that time, "raised
    .        hell"-in the Old Waldorf Bar when they could get
'            away with it.
    ~

        YALE                  Dash of Orange Bitters
                              One-half Tom Gin
                              One-half Italian Vermouth (Stir)
                              Little Seltzer on top
                An institution somewhere beyond Old Greenwich,
             where many young men go for the purpose of commut-
             ing to New York for week-ends. The Old Bar used to
             be one of their "ports of call" and there they used to
             find many who in years past had gone to the same place
             and done the same things.

        YORK                 Dash of O~ange Bitters
                             One-half French Vermouth
                             One-half Scotch Whiskey (Stir)

        ZAZA*                One dash Orange Bitters
                             One-half Plymouth Gin
                             One-half Calisaya (Stir)

        ZAZA No. 2           Two dashes Orange Bitters
                             One-third Tom Gin
                             Two-thirds Dubonnet (Stir)

                             One-third Cura~o
                             One-third Cream
                             One-third Gin
               Named in honor of a New Yeat. Some believe this
             was the last cocktail invented in the Old Waldorf Bar.
               OTHER PRE-WAR MIXED DRINKS                       79

  FANCY POTATIONS AND OTHERWISE *
   Note: The type of serving-glass appears in parenthesis at the end
of one line of most formulas.


                         COBBLERS
   CoBBLER: A summer drink made of iced wine, sugar, fruit juices,
etc. [U.S.]
CLARET                      One spoon Sugar
                            Two ponies of Water
                          ..One and one-half jiggers Claret
                            Fill with Ice; fruit well (goblet)
NARRAGANSETT Whole peel of Orange
             Juice of one Orange
             One jigger Whiskey
             One bottle Ginger Ale
             Stir (Collins glass)
SHERRY                     One-fourth spoon Sugar
                           One pony of Water
                           One and one-half jigger Sherry
                           Stir; fill with Ice-; fruit (goblet)

                          COOLERS
  CooLER: A refreshing beverage-supposed to illustrate its name.

BOSTON                 Juice one-half Lemon
                       One-quarter spoon Sugar
  *  In "!>rinks from Other Climes" will be found numerous other
classified and miscellaneous mixed drinks.
80       OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

                One jigger Medford Rum
                Ice; one bottle plain Soda (Collins
                  glass)
HAWAII         Whole peel of Orange
               Juice of one Orange
               One jigger Whiskey
               Ice; fill Collins glass with Ginger Ale

HILLY CROFT Whole rind of Lemon
            Two lumps Ice
            One Ginger Ale
            One jigger Tom Gin

KLONDIKE        Whole peel of one Orange
                Juice of Orange
                One jigger Whiskey
                Ice; one Ginger Ale (Collins glass)

REMSEN          Whole peel of Lemon
                One jigger Tom Gin
                Ice; fill with plain Soda

ROOFGARDEN      One dash Bitters, on one lump Sugar
                One jigger French Vermouth
                Ice; one bottle of Ginger Ale (Col-
                  lins)

SEAWANHAKA Whole peel of one Lemon
YACHT CLUB Two lumps Ice
           One jigger Whiskey
           Fill with Ginger Ale (goblet)
               OTHER PRE-WAR MIXED DRINKS                        81

                               CUPS
   CuP : A beverage made with wine, generally iced, and with
flavoring herbs and fruits. In olden times, vegetables were also in-
cluded, particularly cucumbers.

CHAMPAGNE             One and one-half ponies Brandy
(pitcher)             One pony Benedictine
                      One pony Maraschino
                      One · bottle Soda
                      One bottle Wine
                      One stick -Ice
                      Frajt; decorate with Mint
                           I

CLARET CUP            One-half spoon Sugar
WALDORF               One and one-half ponies Brandy
(pitcher)             Pony each, Benedictine and Maraschino
                      Seltzer to fill glass
                      Stir; pour into pitcher; large stick Ice
                      One bottle Claret         '
                      Fruit; decorate with frosted Mint
FRUIT                 Equal portions, Raspberry Syrup,
(pitcher)              Strawberry Syrup, Pineapple Syrup
                      Lemon 'and Orange -Juice
                      Currant Syrup
                      Add Seltzer or Apollinaris to fill
                      Add sliced Bananas and Strawberries
ROBSON'S KISS      Champagne, Moselle, or Rhine
                      Wine Cup
                   Made like Claret Cup Waldorf
      Commemorating a notable osculation by which enthu-
              OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

  siastic women, upon his return from Cuban waters, came
  near dimming the faine of Lieut. Commander Richard
  Pearson Hobson, U.S.N., who had sunk the collier
  Merrimac in a heroic effort to bottle up the Spanish
  fleet in Santiago harbor, during the Spanish-American
  War.
MINEHEART            Equal portions, Raspberry Syrup, Pine-
                       apple Juice, Lemon Juice, Orange
                       Juice, Red Currant Juice
                     Stir; add Ice; fill with Water
                       Add sliced bananas and whole straw-
                          berries

                            FIZZES
   Fizz : An effervescing beverage, named, Qnomatopoetically, from
the noise.

BALTIMORE               One-half pony Anisette
BRACER                  One-half pony Brandy
                        White of one Egg (fizz glass)
                        Frappe; fizz with Carbonic
BAYARD                  One dash Raspberry
BEAUTY                  One dash Maraschino
                        One spoon Lemon Juice
                        One jigger Tom Gin (lemonade)
                        Ice; shake; strain; fill with Seltzer
BISMARCK                 Juice one-half Lemon
                         One-half spoon Sugar
                         One pony Raspberry Syrup
                         One and one-half jigger Rhine Wine
            OTHER PRE-WAR MIXED DRINKS

                   Shake and strain; fill with chilled
                     Seltzer
CHICAGO              Juice one-fourth Lemon
                     One-half spoon Sugar
                     White of one Egg
                     One-half jigger Jamaica Rum
                     One-half jigger Port Wine
                     Ice; shake; strain; fill from siphon
     An importation from the Windy City long before
  bombs, machine guns and .sawed-off shotguns had come
  to disturb its peaceful life.
                      I
FREE SILVER Juice one-fourth Lemon
                   One-third spoon Sugar
                   Two-thirds Tom Gin
                   One-third Medford Rum
                   One-half pony of Milk
                   Ice; shake; strain; fill from siphon
   Free silver was an obsession of a great many Ameri-
 cans during the final decade of the last century.

GIN                Juice one-half Lemon
                   One-half spoon Sugar
                   One jigger Tom Gin
                   Shake and strain; fill from chilled
                     siphon

GOLDEN            Juice one-half Lemon
                  One-half spoon Sugar
                  Yolk one Egg
                  One jigger Gin
                  Shake; strain; fill from chilled siphon
    84       OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

    GRENADINE      Juice one-half Lemon
                   One-half spoon Sugar
                   One pony Grenadine
                   One pony Milk:


'   HORTON
                   One jigger Tom Gin
                   Ice; shake; strain; fill from siphon
                   Gin fizz, with three or four sprigs
                     of Mint, shaken up

    JAP            Juice one-half Lemon
                   One spoonful Sugar
                   One-half jigger each of Rye Whiskey
                     and Port Wine
                   White of one Egg
                   Frappe; strain; serve with Seltzer
                     and one slice Pineapple

    MORNING        Juice one-half Lemon
    GLORY          One-half spoon Sugar
                   White of one Egg
                   One jigger Scotch
                   Xwo dashes Absinthe
                   Shake; strain; fill from       chilled
                     siphon

    MURDOCK        Two lumps Ice, dissolved in pony
                     of Water
                   Two pieces Lemon Peel
                   One jigger Rye Whiskey
                   Fill glass with Ice
                   Fizz from siphon
          OTHER PRE-WAR MIXED DRINKS              85
NEW ORLEANS Juice of one Lemon and a half
            White of Egg
            One spoon Sugar
            Three dashes Orange Water
            One jigger Cream
            One jigger Gin
            lee; shake well (goblet)

ROYAL           Gin Fizz with a whole Egg (lemon-
                  ade)
                Fill from chilled siphon

SILVER         ' Gin Fizz, with White of Egg
                 Fill with Seltzer

STRAWBERRY       One pony Strawberry Syrup
                 Juice of one-half Lemon
                 One jigger Tom Gin (lemonade)
                 Ice; shake; strain; fill from siphon

WHISKEY          Juice of one-half Lemon
                 One spoon Sugar
                 One jigger Whiskey
                 lee; shake; strain; fill from siphon

WHISKEY          One-half spoon Sugar
No. 2            One-half pony of Water
                 Three or four lumps Ice
                 One jigger Whiskey
                 Three slices of Fruit
                 Serve with spoon
86             OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

                                FLIPS
   FL1P: A drink made with some liquor, mixed with an egg and
spiced and sugared.

SHERRY                One Egg (star glass)
                      One-half spoon Sugar
                      One jigger Sherry
                      Ice; shake; strain; grate Nutmeg on
                        top
       Note: Other flips made by the same formula, with
     other bases than Sherry.
KRUGER                  Sherry Flip, with a dash of Grenadine
SPECIAL                    (fizz glass)
                        Fill from siphon
WHISKEY                 One Egg
                        One-half spoon Sugar
                        One jigger Whiskey
                        Shake; strain; Nutmeg grated on top

                          HIGH-BALLS
   Just as is the case with "cocktail," the origin and application of
"high-ball" as a name for a stimulant is open to dlscussion. Some have
asserted that the name was taken from the National Game, possibly
because of the effect upon the "batting average" of one who "hits"
enough in rapid succession. However the lexicographer digs further.
    In slang, a drink is often described as a "shot"; in Pall-Mall English
it's a "spot." High-ball, more or less pure American for what a Brit-
isher calls a Whiskey-and-Soda, say the learned, is combined from
"high," meaning tall, and descriptive of the container, and "ball,"
which used to be the equivalent of "shot," both metallically and ab-
sorbat1vely. Therefore the classical definition, "a 'long' drink con-
sisting of whiskey, to which is added soda-water, mineral water or
some other effervescent, served in a tall glass with broken ice."
            OTHER PRE-WAR MIXED DRINKS

HIGH-BALL          One jigger Whiskey
                   One lump Ice
                   Fill from siphon
   The whiskey might be Scotch, Bourbon, Rye or Irish;
 or instead might be used Gin, Sloe Gin, Brandy or Rum,
 the particular High-ball taking its name from the liquor
 used. In a GINGER ALE HIGH-BALL, Ginger Ale is used
 instead of aerated water.
BERMUDA            One-third Brandy
                   One-third Plymouth Gin
                   One-third French Vermouth
                   One whole Lemon Peel
                   One lump Ice; fill from siphon
PALL MALL          One-third Nicholson Gin
                   One-third Vermouth
                   One-third Brandy
                   Fill from chilled 'siphon

                HOT POTATIONS
COLUMBIA           One-half lump Sugar
SKILL              Two spoons not Water
                   One piece twisted Lemon Peel
                   One jigger Whiskey
                   Fill with hot Water; small spoon
   Called after the prowess Columbia had exhibited in a
 certain boat race with Cornell, and first composed upon •-'-r.'~::.-r:}
 the demand of a Columbia "fan" for a new drink that ~~--
 would properly commemorate the occasion.               ~~~
HOT GIN SLING See the same under "sLINGs"                   ~~. -- ...
88        OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

HOT SCOTCH       Lump Sugar, dissolved in hot Water
                 One jigger Scotch
                 Fill two-thirds with hot Water
                 One piece Lemon Peel, twisted
HOT SHERRY       Half lump Sugar, dissolved in hot
                   Water
                 One jigger Sherry
                 Fill two-thirds with hot Water
                 Nutmeg on side
HOT SPICED       Lump Sugar, dissolved in hot Water
RUM              One jigger Rum
                 Five whole Cloves
                 Fill glass with hot Water
HOT WHISKEY      Lump Sugar, dissolved in hot Water
SKIN             One jigger Whiskey
                 One piece twisted Lemon Peel
                 Fill with hot Water
LOCOMOTIVE       Yolks of three Eggs, well beaten
HOT              One ounce of Honey
(pitcher)        Five Cloves
                 One pony of Triple Sec
                 One pint Hot Burgundy
                 Stir well; serve in hot glasses

MULLED.          ..Three spoons Sugar
CLARET             One-half pint Water
or Burgundy        Five or six Cloves
                   Three small pieces Cinnamon
                   Whole rind of Lem,on, cut very thin
           OTHER PRE-WAR MIXED DRINKS

                    Let come to a boil; add Wine
                    Boil again and serve very hot
TOM AND             Beat six Eggs well, adding Pow-
JERRY                 dered Sugar until very thick, work-
                       ing out all lumps
                    Pour one-half tablespoon of this
                       batter into mug
                    One-half jigger Brandy
                    One-half jigger Jamaica Rum
                    Fill with hot Water; add Nutmeg
   (See also TODDIES, and "Drinks from e.>ther Climes")

            HOT-WITH FLAMES
BLUE BLAZES        One lump Sugar dissolved in one-
                     half jigger hot Water (ale mug)
                   One jigger Scotch
                   Set fire to Whiskey; pour back and
                     forth blazing
CAF:f: BRULER      Moisten edge of claret glass-dip in
                     Powdered Sugar
                   Seven-eighths Hot Coffee
                   One-eighth Brandy on top·
                   Set fire to Brandy
JERSEY             Two lumps Sugar
FLASHLIGHT         One dash Angostura Bitters
                   One piece Lemon Peel                 ,  .· ,
                   One jigger Apple Whiskey
                   Fill with hot Water; ignite the whole •    · . ·· ~
                   Mix while blazing                                -
90             OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

                             JULEPS
   JuLEP: From the Spanish julepe, itself derived from the Arabic
and Persian julab = gul (rose) plus ab (water); so that the name is
of ancient origin. Today, fresh Mint, as part of a julep, is as unchang-
ing as an old-time Persian law.
BRANDY                     Put three or four sprigs of Mint in
                             mixing glass
                           One-half spoon Sugar
                           One pony Brandy
                           One pony Water; crush well
                           Fill goblet two-thirds with Ice
                           Strain mixture on top
                           Fruit well; decorate with Mint
CHAMPAGNE                  One lump Sugar
                           Three sprigs Mint
                           Two lumps Ice
                           Fill with Champagne
MINT                        In mixer put three sprigs Mint
                            One-half spoon Sugar
                            One pony Water
                            Press well, crushing Mint
                            Add one jigger Whiskey; stir
                            Pour into glass two-thirds full Ice
                            Fruit well; decorate with Mint
PRESBREY ..                 Three sprigs Mint
                            One jigger Whiskey
                            One dash St. Croix Rum; shaved
                              Ice; stir; Fruit and Mint
WHISKEY MINT Three sprigs Mint
             One-half spoon Sugar
                 OTHER PRE-WAR MIXED DRINKS                             91
                           One pony of Water
                           Press well and add jigger Whiskey
                           Ice; stir; strain well

                         POUSSE CAFES
L'AMOUR                    One-third Maraschino
                           Yolk of one Egg
                           Cover with Vanilla
                           Fill with Brandy
RAINBOW                    Equal parts of Grenadine, Mara-
                             schino, Green Creme de Menthe,
                             Yellow Chartreuse, Cura~o and
                             Brandy
WALDORF                    One seventh each, Raspberry Syrup,
                             Anisette,   Parfait    d' Amour,
                             Creme Yvette, Yellow Char-
                             treuse, Green Chartreuse and
                             Brandy (Sherry glass)

                             PUNCHES-
   Contrary to common belief, the punch is not exactly an English
invention. In its original form the word was the Sanskrit poncho,
meaning ".five." The Hindus used .five ingredients to make what they
called ponclz,--Arrack, tea, sugar, water and lemon. Some attribute
its importation into England, not to early British travelers in the
Orient, but to the British East India Company, in its efforts to popu-
larize tea. If that looks a bit far-fetched, in modern punches the rule
of five ingredients does not always apply.                                         :- > · ~
                                                                               .; :~
   In addition to the various punches served at the Old Waldorf-             .-1/. : ,. · ..
Astoria, several scores o.f others are made in various parts of ~he w~rld.  ,f;::>.~: ._ .:-·
He or she who complains of lack of "punch" among the drinks hsted : K' - ~-
in this book is advised to consult a standard book of punch recipes.       ~»      ·_
92        OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

BOSTON MILK Grate Nutmeg in glass
            One-half spoon Sugar
            One-half jigger Whiskey
            One-half St. Croix Rum (goblet)
            Fill with chilled Milk; shake well;
              strain

BRANDY          Juice of one-half Lemon
                One-half spoon Sugar
                One pony of Water
                One jigger Brandy
                Ice; shake; strain; fruit

CHAMPAGNE       One pint Champagne
(pitcher)       One pint white Beaune, or other white
                 Wine
                One pint Apollinaris
                One sliced Orange
                Two lumps Sugar; Ice

CHAMPAGNE       One pint Champagne
(KINSLEY)       One pint Burgundy
                One pint Apollinaris
                Three lumps Sugar
                One sliced Orange; Ice

CLARET          Juice one-half Lemon
                One-half spoon Sugar
                One pony of Water
                One and one-half jiggers Claret
                Ice; stir; pour into goblet; fruit well
           OTHER PRE-WAR MIXED DRINKS               93
CLARET         Juice six Lemons
No. 2          Two ponies each, Curac;ao and Brandy
(gallon)       Tablespoon Sugar
               Two quarts Claret
               lee; two siphons of Seltzer
CREAM           One-half spoon Sugar
                One pony White Curac;ao
                One pbny Br.andy
                Fill two-thirds with chilled Milk
                Shake well; strain; Nutmeg

CUBAN MILK      One pony Vanilla
                One-half teaspoon Sugar
                One whole Egg
                One pony Bacardi
                Fill with Milk; shake; strain; Nutmeg

FISH-HOUSE      Juice one-half Lemon
                One-half spoon Sugar
                One-half jigger Brandy
                One-half jigger Jamaica Rum
                Ice; shake well; fruit in season

GOODWIN         Juice one Lime
                Open spoon Sugar
                One dash Sherry
                One jigger Rye
                Ice; shake; strain; fruit

HERALD          Juice of one Orange
                One-half spoon Sugar
    94          OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

                            One jigger Whiskey



I                           Ice; shake; fruit; flavor with St.
                              Croix Rum
    KNICKERBOCKER Juice one-half Lemon
                  One-half spoon Sugar
                  One pony Water
                  One jigger St. Croix Rum
                  Ice; stir; fruit well; float Claret
                     on top
    LANDER'S               One-fourth Jamaica Rum
                           One-fourth Gordon Gin
                           One-fourth French Vermouth
                           One-fourth Lemon Juice; Frappe
    MILK                    One jigger Whiskey (or Brandy)
                            One-half spoon Sugar
                            Fill three-quarters ·with Mille
                            Ice; shake; strain; serve with
                              Nutmeg
    PEGGY O'NEILL           One dash Parfait d'Amour
                            One Lime Peel in center of glass
                            One drink Rye Whiskey
                            Three sprigs Mint
                            Ice; fill with Seltzer
        After an. opera or play of that name, it is believed.
      The original Peggy O'Neill was the daughter of a Wash-
      ington tavern-keeper, and noted for her beauty and
      wit.
    PING PONG               Juice of one Lemon
                            One dash Bitters
        OTHER PRE-WAR MIXED DRINKS                95
                One jigger Apple Cider
                Fresh Egg
                One spoon Sugar
                Shake; strain; fill with chilled Soda
PING PONG       Five siphons
No. 2           One quart Whiskey
(pitcher)       One quart Brandy
                Crushed Mint; Fruit
PLANTER'S       Juice of, one small Lime
                Jigger of Jamaica Rum
                 Fruit like a Claret Punch
                 Fill glass from chilled siphon
PUNCH           Two tablespoons Sugar
UNIVERSAL       Juice of two Lemons and one
                   Ortinge
                One pony Jamaica Rum
                One pony Brandy       '
                One bottle plain Soda
                One quart Chablis; Ice; Fruit
ROMAN           Juice of one-half Lemon
                One ' spoon Sugar ·
                One pony Cura~o
                One-half jigger Jamaica Rum
                One-half Brandy
                One or two dashes Port Wine
                Ice; s~ake; strain; Seltzer on top; ·          ·-:· - 1 .
                  Fruit                                 ..    ' 1: ·   ·-


ROOSEVELT       Muddle one-half Lemon                        .......:- :·
                                                             .l>..
                One spoon Sugar                         ·             ·
         OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

                   One jigger Apple Whiskey
                   Ice; shake; one dash of Brandy on
                     top
                   Juice of one-half Lemon
                   One-half spoon Sugar
                   One pony of Water
                   One jigger Rum
                   Fill glass two-thirds fine Ice; Fruit
SCHLEY             Juice and rind of one-half Lime
                   One-fourth spoon Sugar
                   One-third jigger St. Croix Rum
                   Two-thirds jigger Whiskey
                   Ice; shake; strain; fill with Seltzer
SHERIDAN            Plain lemonade, with Whiskey
                      on top
STEINWAY          Muddle one-half Lemon
                  One-half spoon Sugar
                  One jigger Whiskey
                 Fill with chilled Seltzer
                  Stir; strain; Fruit
  Named after Charles Steinway, a well-known gour-
 met.
WALDORF            Whiskey, with Claret floated on top
WHISKEY ..         Juice of one-half Lemon
                   One-half spoon Sugar
                   One pony of Water
                   Fill glass two-thirds with fine Ice
                   One jigger Whiskey
                   Stir; fruit well in season
                OTHER PRE-WAR MIXED DRINKS                         97
WHISKEY MILK                One-half spoon Sugar
                            One jigger Whiskey
                            Fill three-quarters with chilled
                              Milk
                            Shake well; strain; Nutmeg on top

                            RICKEYS
   The Rickey owes its name to Colonel "Joe" Rickey, though an in-
terested public has long persisted in referring to him as "Colonel
Ji,m" Rickey. Colonel Rickey had ' been a lobbyist in Washington,
and as such used to buy drinks for members of Congress in the glam-
orous days before they had come to depend upon the discreet activities
of gentlemen in green hats to keep them wet while they voted dry.
The drink was invented and named for him at Shoemaker's, famous
in Washington as a Congressional hangout.

GIN RICKEY        Juice and rind of one Lime
                  Lump of lee (goblet)
                  Gin to suit customer
                  Fill from siphon
     Note: Other Rickeys get their names from the
  liquor taking the place of Gin in following the formula.

                         SANGAREES
   The Sangaree probably acquired its name for one or two reasons,
or both. The word is derived from the Spanisfi· sanguia, meaning
"bloody," which itself comes from the Latin sanguif (blood), and a
sangaree is red, or reddish--or was as originally made. The other
reason for the name may be that it is supposed to have a cooling effect
upon the blood.                                                           r-·(#')il ~
SANGAREE              g::~~: /;~::: :i:n~7nVermouth ~.:l.fo·.m
                                                             ~,-;,\1',~
                                                                      .~ -....' ..:
                                                                           ..
                      One dash Acid Phosphate                                   ~- ~
98           OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

                    Two dashes Angostura Bitters
                    Fill with Ice (fizz glass)
PORT WINE           One-half spoon Sugar
                    One jigger Water
                    One and one-half jiggers Port Wine
                    Ice; stir; strain
       Other Sangarees were made similarly of Sherry, or
     Gin, or Brandy. (See "Drinks from Other Climes.")

                            SLINGS
   SLING: Name, but not the drink itself, ascribed to the German
scklingen, meaning "swallow," not from the Engli,sh verb meaning to
"hurl"-down.

BRANDY                 One-half lump Sugar dissolved in two
                         spoons Water (whiskey glass)
                       One jigger Brandy
                       One piece twisted Lemon Peel
                       One lump Ice; serve with small spoon
GIN                    One lump Sugar, dissolved in half
                         wine-glass Water
                       One-half glass Gin
                       One lump Ice
                       Stir with spoon; grated Nutmeg
HOT GIN                One lump Sugar, dissolved in hot
                         Water
                       One jigger Gin; more hot Water
                       One piece Lemon Peel
WHISKEY                Half lump Sugar in half pony Water
                       One jigger Whiskey
                OTHE~    PRE-WAR MIXED DRINKS                       99
                        Four or five drops Lemon Juice
                        One piece Lemon Peel; Ice (spoon)

                            SMASHES
   SMASH: To flatten; in tennis, to bat, etc.; in slang a smash is some-
thing of extraordinary ability. Somewhere in these lies the origin of
the term as "a beverage of spirituous liquors, with mint, water, sugar
and ice."                             ·

BRANDY                   Two sprigs Mint
                         Two spoons Water
                         One-quarter spobn Sugar
                         Muddle in fizz glass
                         One jigge~ Brandy
                         Two lumps Ice; serve with small
                          spoon
WHISKEY                  Three sprigs of Mint
                         Fill mixing glass with fine Ice
                         Two more sprigs of Mint
                         One-quarter spoon Sugar
                         One-half pony of Water
                         Press well; add one jigger Whiskey
                         Stir; strain; fruit well; Mint on top

                              SOURS
  SouR: A good old Anglo-Saxon word, and it started as surigan,
was shortened to sur, and finally in its more modern version became the
name of an alcoholic drink because of the taste of the lemon or lime
that is an essential.

BRANDY                   Juice one-half Lemon (star glass)
                         One-half spoon Sugar
      IOO           OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

                              One jigger Brandy
                              Fill with Ice; stir; strain; fruit

'BRUNSWICK                    Juice one-half Lemon
                              One spoon Sugar
                              One jigger Rye
                              Ice, Stir; fruit; Claret on top
             Invented at the Old Hotel Brunswick, once a resort
           for Fashion, and situated on the north side of Madison
           Square.
     DOUBLE                   Juice one-half Lime
     STANDARD                 One-half Rye Whiskey
                              One-half Tom Gin
                              One dash Raspberry Syrup
                              Ice; stir; strain; fruit
              Owes its name to a controversy which during the
           Nineties divided two political parties on the subject of
           whether this country should have both a gold and silver
           standard of currency, or gold alone. Nothing to do with
           masculine or feminine conduct.

      HANCOCK                 Four dashes Rock Candy Syrup
                              Juice one Lime
                              Three dashes Jamaica Rum
                              One jigger Bourbon
   .....                      Ice; stir; strain; Carbonic (fizz
                                 glass)

      PEQlJOD SOUR Juice of one-half Lemon
                   One-half spoon Sugar
                   Two sprigs Mint
                   One-half Water
           OTHER PRE-WAR MIXED DRINKS                IOI

              One jigger Whiskey
              Stir well; fruit

ROOSEVELT Juice of one-half Lemon
               One-half spoon Sugar
               One jigger Apple Whiskey
               Ice; shake; strain on Fruit in glass
    Nothing to do with the New Deal; named to com-
 pliment the author of the Square Ditto.

RUM           Juice of one-half Lemon
              One-half spoon Sugar
              One jigger Rum
              Ice; shake; strain on Fruit in glass

ST. CROIX     Juice of one-half Lemon
              One spoon Sugar
              One jigger St. Croix Rum
              Ice; shake; strain on Fruit in glass

SANTIAGO      Juice of one-half Lemon
              One-half spoon Sugar
              One pony of Water
              One jigger Whiskey_
              Ice; stir well; stuffed Olive in glass

SOUTHERN St. Croix Sour, with Claret on top

WHISKEY        Juice of one-half Lemon
               One-half spoon Sugar
               One-half pony of Water
               One jigger Whiskey
               Ice; stir well; strain; fruit
102            OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

                           TODDIES
  Tooov: A general name for alcoholic liquor. Specifically and as
herein applied, a beverage made of spirits, sugar and water, the latter
usually hot, and sometimes with other ingredients for flavoring.

APPLE TODDY           Dissolve one lump of Sugar in three
COLD                     teaspoonfuls of Water (whiskey
                         glass)
                      One jigger Apple Whiskey
                      One lump Ice
                      Serve with spoon and Nutmeg
     (For Hot Apple Toddy, use larger glass and fill
   with hot water. Do not heat the Whiskey before mixing,
   and leave out the ice.)
BRANDY                    One-half lump Sugar
                          Three spoons Water
                          One jigger Brandy
                          One lump Ice (whiskey glass)
                          Small spoon
BRANDY (Hot)               One teaspoon Sugar, dissolved m
                             boiling Water
                           One wine-glass Brandy
                           Fill two-thirds with boiling Water
                           Grate Nutmeg on top
HOT BAKED                  One lump Sugar, dissolved
APPLE                      One-fourth Baked Apple
                           One jigger Apple Whiskey
                           Fill two-thirds with hot Water
HOT WHISKEY                 One lump Sugar, dissolved in hot
                             Water
               OTHER PRE-WAR MIXED DRINKS             IOJ

                     One jigger Whiskey
                     Fill two-thirds with hot Water

KENTUCKY             One-half lump Sugar
                     Two spoonfuls Water
                     One jigger Kentucky Whiskey

PEPSIN                One-half lump Sugar
                    , Two dashes Pepsin Bitters
                      One jigger Whiskey
                      One lu~p Ice
                      Fill from siphon


          OTHER MIXED POTATIONS
ABSINTHE             One jigger Absinthe (star)
FRAPPE               Ice; shake well; strain
                     Fill with plain Water

ABSINTHE             One jigger Absinthe
FRAPPE               Ice; shake well; strain
(California)         Fill from siphon

ANGEL'S BLUSH Two-thirds Benedi~tine (pony)
or KISS       One-third Cream

ANGEL'S              One-third Maraschino (pony)
DREAM                One-third Cream
                     One-third Creme Yvette

ANGEL'S TIT          Two-thirds Maraschino (pony)
                     One-third Cream
104         OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

APRICOT              Cup one small Lemon
SAM WARD             Put in cocktail glass
                     Fill with fine Ice
                     Fill with Apricot Brandy
AUTOMOBILE            Juice one-half Lemon or Lime
                      One jigger Gordon Gin
                      Two lumps Ice (Collins glass)
                      Three sprigs Mint
                       One bottle Ginger Ale
     First concocted in the days when the automobile was
  a novelty. The fact that its alcoholic content was modest,
  inclines one to the belief that it was not invented by the
  victim of a motor car.
BABY TITTY            One-third Anisette (sherry glass)
                      One-third Creme Yvette
                      One-third Whipped Cream
                      Serve with Cherry on top
BISHOP                Two jiggers Water
(pitcher)             Four spoons Sugar
                      Juice one-half Lemon
                      One jigger Jamaica Rum
                      One bottle Claret
                      Ice; fruit well

BORD ELA.I SE         One pony Kirsch (lemonade glass)
                      One-half pony Raspberry Syrup
                      Ice; shake; strain; fill from siphon
       ..
BRADLEY           Pony of Creme de Menthe on Ice or
MARTIN              plain with Creme de Cacao on top
   After the husband of a famous society leader who
           OTHER PRE-WAR MIXED DRINKS             105

 gave a much publicized ball in the room adjoining the
 Old Waldorf Bar, while the latter was still building.
BRANDY AND          One jigger Brandy (Collins glass)
GINGER ALE          Fill with fine Ice
FRAPPE              Shake well; strain; fill with cold
                      Ginger Ale
BRANDY       One-third Cura910 (pony)
CHAMPERELI:E One-third Baker's Bitters
             One-third Brandy
BRANDY FLOAT Fill whiskey glass two-thirds with
             1  Seltzer
              Float pony of Brandy on top by
                using spoon
BRANDY             One-half Maraschino (pony)
SCAFFA             One-half Brandy
                   Two dashes Angostura on top
CAFE KIRSCH        White of one Egg (claret glass)
                   One-foilrth spoon Sugar
                   One pony each, Brandy, Kirsch-
                     , wasser and Coffee
                   Ice, if preferred cold
                   Shake well; stra!~
CASCADE            One pony Creme de Cassis (goblet)
                   One pony French Vermouth
                   Fizz with Seltzer
CHOCOLATE          Yolk one Egg (Collins glass)
CREAM              One pony Kirsch
PHOSPHATE          One pony Cream
    106         OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

                        Three dashes Acid Phosphate
                        Shake well; strain; fill with plain
                          Soda
•   CIDERNECTAR         Juice one-half Lemon
    (one quart)         One spoon Sugar
                        Jigger each Brandy and Sherry
                        Ice; one quart Cider; Mint on top
    CONCLAVE            Juice one Orange (goblet)
                        One pony Raspberry Syrup
                        Fill with chilled Milk; little Sugar;
                          shake; strain
    CREAM PUFF          One-half spoon Sugar (lemonade
                          glass)
                        One pony Cream
                        One jigger St. Croix Rum
                        Ice; shake well; strain; fill from
                          siphon
    CREOLE LADY         Two Maraschino Cherries
                        One pony Maraschino
                        One sherry glass of Bourbon
                        One sherry glass of Old Madeira
                        Mix thoroughly with spoon-no Ice
    DELGARCIA           Fill glass with Brandy (pony)
          ...           One slice Lemon laid flat on top
                        One lump Sugar on top of that-
                          no lee

    DURKEE              One whole Lemon (Collins glass)
                        One spoon Sugar, muddled well
            OTHER PRE-WAR MIXED DRINKS                107

                     One jigger Jamaica Rum
                     Ice; fill with Soda; stir
EGG-NOG              One-half spoon Sugar (goblet)
                     One Egg
                     Fill three-quarters with Mille
                     Add Rum, Brandy, or Whiskey
                     Shake well; Nutmeg on top
FASCINATION          One-third White Cura910
                     Two-thirds White Absinthe
                     One piece of Ice in champagne glass
                     Fill from siphon
FIN DE SIECLE      'tom Collins, with Grenadine and
                      Raspberry Syrup
   Name dates it back to 1899 or 1900, when the term
 was much used, but much mispronounced.
FLAMBEAU             Cup small Orange-turn inside out
                     One lump Sugar           '
                     One jigger Brandy (champagne
                       glass)
                     Set fire-burn fiv.e or ten seconds
FLORADORA             Juice •one Lime (C-allins glass)
                      One-half teaspoon Sugar
                      One-half pony Raspberry Syrup
                      One jigger Gin
                      Frappe; fizz with bottle Ginger Ale
    After an English musical comedy that had a long run     ;-;-:~
 ~t the Casino early in the century, and was famou~ for Y:'.(;.~l~·
 its sextette, and for the number of wealthy marriages , fl, ':<~- --··
 made by the members of the latter.                       & .·:·
108       OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

GARDEN            One-half pony Creme Yvette
OF EDEN           One-half pony Apricot Brandy

GENERAL           One-half Lemon, muddled with
HENDRICKS         Two lumps Sugar in goblet
                  One jigger Bourbon Whiskey
                  Fill with chilled Apollinaris

GIN BUCK          One drink of Gin
                  One Lemon in Collins glass; Ice
                  One bottle imported Ginger Ale

GOLDEN            One-fourth yellow Chartreuse
SLIPPER           One small Egg (sherry glass)
                  Fill with Eau de Vie de Dantzig

HAPPY             Equal parts, in claret glass of cracked
THOUGHT             Ice, of following:
                  Anisette, Creme de Cacao,
                  Creme de Rose, Creme de Menthe,
                  Creme Yvette and Cognac

JIM RENWICK       Rind of one Lemon
                  One jigger Whiskey
                  Two lumps Ice (Collins glass)
                  One bottle imported Ginger Ale

JOHN COLLINS Juice one-half Lemon (Collins glass)
                One-half spoon Sugar
                One jigger Holland Gin
                Ice; shake; strain; fill with plain
                  Soda
   One of two members of the Collins family famous
            OTHER PRE-WAR MIXED DRINKS               109

  in bars in the old days. The difference between the two
  was that a Tom Collins was made with Old Tom Gin-
  or supposedly-while a John Collins was made with
  Holland Gin.
JOHN FRAZER            Seven-eighths pony Maraschino
                       One-eighth Angostura Bitters
JOKER                  One-fourth sherry glass each,
                        Anisette, Creme Yvette, Bene-
                        dictine and Cream
                             '
JONES LA POUSSE Two-thirds Yellow Chartreuse
                One-third Cream (pony)
                        I
KING CHARLES           One pony Maraschino
                       One jigger Tom Gin
                       Three small lumps Ice (goblet)
                       Fill with plain Soda; Fruit
KNICKERBINE            One-third sherry glass Creme de
                         Rose
                       One small Egg Yolk:
                       One-third Benedictine
                       One-third Kilmrnel
                       Three dashes Ox:ange Bitters on
                         top
KNICKERBOCKER Juice one-half L~mon (Collins
                 glass)
              One lump Sugar
              Two dashes Angostura Bitters
              One whole Lemon Peel
              One jigger Brandy
              Fill with plain chilled Soda
           I IO          OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

               After a well known New York Club, then situated



I
             a few steps from the Waldorf, and supposed to have
    ..       been originally compounded for members of that or-
.            ganization, as was the case with Knickerbocker Punch
    ....     (q. v.) .

           LALLA ROOKH          One pony Vanilla (lemonade glass)
                                One-half jigger Brandy
                                One-half Jamaica Rum
                                One-half spoon Sugar
                                One tablespoon Whipped Cream
                                Ice; shake well ; strain

           LAWYER'S             One-fourth spoon Sugar
           REVENGE              Piece of Orange Peel
                                One-half jigger Water; mix well
                                Fill mixing glass with Ice
                                Put over it jigger Port Wine
                                Serve in star glass; add dash of
                                  Vichy

           LEMONADE              Equal parts of Raspbetry Syrup,
           (a la Taylor)           Strawberry Syrup, Pineapple
                                   Syrup, Lemon Juice, Currant or
                                   Blackberry Syrup and Orange
                                   Juice, with small pieces of Banana
                                 lee; fill glass with sparkling Water

           LOENSKY               Two-thirds pony Russian KUmmel
                                 One-third Scotch Whiskey-no Ice
                    ..
           LUNE DE MIEL          One-third sherry glass White Cacao
                                 One-third Parfait d'Amour
          OTHER PRE-WAR MIXED DRINKS                   II I

                 Yolk of one Egg
                 One-third Ki.immel Dore
  Oftener drunk than correctly pronounced.
MAMIE            Juice one-half Lime (Collins glass)
GILROY           One dash Hostetter Bitters
                 One jigger Scotch Whiskey
                 One bottle chilled Club Soda
MAMIE             Juice one-half Lime (Collins glass)
TAYLOR            One jigger Scotch Whiskey
                  One bottle imported Ginger Ale
MARGUERITE        One-half Lime (Collins glass)
                  Lump'1Ice
                  One jigger Tom Gin
                  One imported Ginger Ale
MARTINIQUE        Two-thirds pony Benedictine
                  One-third Cream-no Ice
MINCE PIE          Three-quarters pony Creme de
                      Menthe
                   One-quarter Brandy-no Ice
    No mincemeat, no pie; only the brandy that was a
 standard mincemeat ingredient in those days.
MONT BLANC        One pony Orgeat Syrue (goblet)
                  One jigger Absinthe
                  White of one Egg
                  Shake; strain; fill glass with chilled ,, ~~ ~
                    Seltzer                             ~~.1 ':'J:~0!l1 ~
                                                               . ·'~··· -:.-J<
ORANGE           Cup an Orange; turn inside out               ~~~~
BRANDY CUP       Serve in glass with Brandy                   EJ:i ·    r
I 12        OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

ORANGE             Cup an Orange
FLAMB:f:E          Put rind in flat champagne glass, in-
COGNAC               side out
                   Fill with shaved Ice
                   Pour over it Cognac

ORANGE             Juice of two Oranges
SMILE              One Egg
                   Enough Grenadine Syrup to color;
                     frappe
PEACH BLOW Juice one-quarter Lemon
           One-half spoon Sugar
           One-half Peach
           One jigger Tom Gin
           Ice; shake; strain; fill fizz glass
              from siphon
POMPIER             One-half jigger French Vermouth
                    One-half jigger Creme de Cassis
                    Ice; fill fizz or Collins glass with
                      Seltzer
     After the French term for "fireman"; but no French
  fireman would understand the usual orders that were
  given for it.
QUEEN              One pony Raspberry Syrup
       -·
CHARLOTTE..        One jigger Claret
                   Two lumps Ice (Collins glass)
                   Fill with Lemon Soda; stir
ROBERT E : LEE One dash Absinthe
               Juice of one Lime
             OTHER PRE-WAR MIXED DRINKS               I I3

                     One drink of Scotch Whiskey
                     Ice and shake (Collins glass)
                     One bottle of Imported Ginger Ale
ROCK AND RYE         Two spoons Rock Candy Syrup
                     One jigger Whiskey in whiskey glass
                     Serve with small spoon
ROYAL SMILE         One-fourth Gordon Gin
                    One-fourth Applejack
                    One-fourth Grenadine
                    One-fourth Lemon Juice; frappe
SABBATH              One pony each, of Brandy, Port
CALM                   Wine and Black Coffee
                     One Egg; one-half spoon Sugar
                     Fill two-thirds with Cream
                     Shake; strain into goblet; Nutmeg
SHANDYGAFF           One bottle Ginger Ale
(pitcher)            One bottle Bass Ale; mix
SHERRY               One-fourth claret glass Sherry
AND EGG              One Egg
                     Fill glass with Sherry
SHERRY               Egg-nog; made with Sherry
CHICKEN
SINGLE                Rickey, made with Whiskey, instead
STANDARD                of Gin, and served in goblet
    This belongs to the same period, and·' has an origin
  similar to that of Double Standard Sour and Free Silver
  Fizz.
SMALL BEER
I 14    OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

SNOW BALL      White of one Egg
               One-half spoon Sugar (Collins glass)
               One . jigger Medford Rum
               Shake; strain; fill with chilled Gin-
                 ger Ale
SOOTHER         One-half spoon Sugar
                Juice one-half Lemon
                One pony Brandy
                One pony Jamaica Rum
                One-half pony Cura~ao
                One spoon pure Apple Juice
                Ice; shake; strain into goblet
STONE FENCE     Two lumps Ice (fizz glass)
                One jigger Whiskey
                Fill glass with Cider (spoon)
SUISETTE        Break one Egg in glass
                Juice of one Lemon
                One-third jigger Italian Vermouth
                Two-thirds jigger Brandy
                Two dashes Absinthe
                One spoon Sugar
                Frappe and fill lemonade glass from
                   siphon
SUISSESSE       Three-quarters jigger Absinthe
                One-fourth pony Anisette
                Ice; shake well; strain; fill star glass
                  from siphon
SUNSHINE        Juice one-half each, Lime and Orange
                White of one Egg
            OTHER PRE-WAR MIXED DRINKS               115

                    Jigger of Gin or Whiskey
                    Fizz with Carbonic (lemonade glass)
SYMPHONY            Wine-glass of shaved Ice
OF MOIST JOY        One-fourth each, Creme de Rose,
                    Yellow Chartreuse, Creme de
                    Menthe and Cognac; Berries on top
THREE-               One-third each; Yellow Chartreuse,
QUARTER              Cura~ao and Brandy (sherry glass)

TOM COLLINS          Juice of one-half Lemon
                     One-half spoo~. Sugar
                     One jigger Tom Gin
                     Ice; shak!e; strain; fill with plain
                       Soda
WHISKEY              Three sprigs Mint
AND MINT             One-half lump Sugar, dissolved;
                      press Mint lightly
                     One jigger Whiskey; Ice
WHISKEY            Three leaves of Tansy, or a pony of
AND TANSY             Tansy Mixture
                   One · jigger Whiskey
WHISKEY            Juice of one-half Lemon .
DAISY              One-half  spoon Sugar
                   One pony Raspberry Syrup
                   One jigger Whiskey
                   Ice; shake; strain; fill from siphon
WHISKEY FIX         O 1         S                       :·;{~~
                     ne .~mp uga:                       .,t~J.~1, . "
                   One Jigger Whiskey                     ~.,~~
                                                              '. ' ~ ·
     Brandy Fix made similarly. Some added one-fourth -~"'           1

of a Lemon and one-half Water.                             l1-;·J1 .
    I 16        OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

    VELVET                One pint Wine (Champagne)
                          One pint Dublin Stout

    VICTORY            Equal parts of Irish Whiskey, H~l­



'   SWIZZLE               land Gin and Jamaica Rum, with
                          juice of one-half Lemon; frappe
        Named in honor either of Dewey's victory at Manila
      Bay or of the Battle of Santiago. Swizzles were first
      imported from Cuba by American naval officers.

    WALDORF               Apricotine and Lime Juice, equal
    FRAPPf:                 parts; frappe

    WARD EIGHT            Whiskey Sour, with Grenadine

    WHISPERS              Equal parts in goblet, Whiskey,
    OF THE FROST            Sherry, and Port Wine
                          Add Sugar, to taste
                          Fruit well; Ice

    WIDOW'S KISS           One-quarter sherry glass Parfait
                             d'Amour
                           One-quarter Yellow Chartreuse
                           One-quarter Benedictine
                           White of one Egg, beaten, on top
                            On the last, put slice of Strawberry
         Just why the author of this drink should ascribe so
       many tastes to the osculation of some gentleman's relict,
       or who ~was the ·widow whose kiss was thus commemo-
       rated, it has been impossible to establish. One could only
       suggest that someone with an inquiring mind might
       catch a widow·and experiment with direct labial contact.
           OTHER PRE-WAR MIXED DRINKS             I   17

              NON-ALCOHOLIC
CIDER NOG          One-half spoon Sugar
                   One Egg
                   Shake well; fill with chilled Cider
                   Stir well; serve with napkin

DUMMY DAISY        One pony Raspberry Syrup
                   Juice one Lime· (lemonade glass)
                   One-half spoon Sugar; Seltzer
                   Ice

EGG FLIP            One-fourth spoon Sugar
                    One Egg
                    Fill two-thirds goblet with Milk
                    Ice; shake; strain
EGG LEMONADE        Juice one Lemon
                    One-half spoon Sugar
                    Fill with Water
                    One Egg
                    Ice; shake well; strain
EGG PHOSPHATE One Egg
              One-half sp~on Sugar
              Three dashes Acid Phosphgte
              Shake well; fill with chilled
                Soda
                                                               -


                                                           •
FLORIDA SPECIAL One drink Orange Juice
                                                                   .
                One lump Ice                                   '

                Split of Ginger Ale
I 18     OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

GRASSHOPPER         One-half Lemon Juice
                    One-half Orange Juice
                    One whole Egg
                    One-half teaspoon Sugar; Ice
HORSE'S NECK        Whole of a Lemon Peel (Collins
                      glass)
                    Ice; one bottle Ginger Ale
LEMONADE, PLAIN Juice of one Lemon
                One-half spoonful Sugar
                Fill with plain Water
                Ice; shake; fruit
LEMON ·              Three dashes Acid Phosphate
PHOSPHATE            One spoon Lemon Juice
                     Fill with Lemon Soda; Stir
LEMON SQUASH         Muddle one Lemon (Collins
                       glass)
                     One-half spoon Sugar
                     Fill with plain Soda; Ice; stir
MINT COOLER          Three or four sprigs of Mint
                     Two lumps Ice (Collins glass)
                     One bottle Ginger Ale
 ORANGEADE           Juice of one and one-half
                        Oranges
                     One-quarter spoon Sugar
                     Fill two-thirds with Water
                     Ice; shake; strain
               "
 ORANGE LILY          Juice of two Oranges
                      White of one Egg; Frappe
            OTHER PRE-WAR MIXED DRINKS                I I9

ORANGE                  Juice one-half Orange
PHOSPHATE               Two dashes Syrup
                        Three dashes Acid Phosphate
                        Ice; stir; fill with plain Soda
PRAIRIE CHICKEN         See PRAIRIE CocKTAIL
SARATOGA COOLER Whole rind of Lemon
                Two or three.lumps Ice (Collins
                  glass)
                Fill one-half with Sarsaparilla
                One-half with Imported Ginger
                           Al~
                                 I
SELTZER                 Juice of one Lemon
LEMONADE                One-half spoon Sugar
                        lee; fill with Seltzer; stir slowly
   Also the following "cocktails" (q. v.): Ammonia, Ci-
~ der, Mountain, Soda and Prairie.
                                    B.
                         AMENDMENTS
               DRINKS FROM OTHER CLIMES


            r. MOSTLY WITH FRENCH SPIRIT


      F    OR reasons earlier elaborated, the art of invention, as
            applied to cocktails, suffered in this country a sort of
      hiatus during the so-called Dry Era. Americans who trav-
      eled abroad became aware that determined efforts were
      being made by sympathetic foreigners to keep the Amer-
      ican School of Drinking alive-with amendments. All over
      Europe, in particular, visitors from this side were assured
      that cocktails answering to all the old familiar names
      would come when called, if asked for in the proper places.
      Many kinds were called for, but after some sampling, few
      varieties were chosen again.
         So far as I have been able to ascertain, Europe, during
      the Dark Interim, produced just one new cocktail that
      Americans took to and adopted. I first came across it in
      Rome. My host there, Commendatore Giulio Gelardi,
       General Man~ger of the Hotel Excelsior, did not, how-
       ever, claim the Side-Car for Italy, and Mussolini himself
       was silent on the subject. Americans who make their homes
       abroad and so have ·oeen able to watch the March of In-
       vention over there, trace its origin to the Ritz Bar, in Paris.
       The correct formula:
                                     120




--- ----------~
                   WITH FRENCH SPIRIT                    121

SIDE-CAR         One-third Lemon or Lime Juice
COCKTAIL         One-third Cointreau
                 One-third Brandy
   The Side-Car is somewhat reminiscent of the Stinger, as
New York knew it before the War, except that the Stinger
had no fruit juice in it, and needed none, having a strong
mint flavor. In English fiction dealing with the Malay
States, the characters seem to be forever calling for a drink
of similar name. One can scarcely read a page of W. Som-
erset Maugham's recently published tales without being
tripped up by an order to a menial to ''stengah-up" his
thirsty boss or the latter's guests, who then take time off
to drink. "Undoubtedly," one man {vas heard to say who
had got as near Singapore as Paterson, N. J., "that was
where we got the Stinger."
   He was wrong, but not until one turned up a friend who
had a friend just back from Singapore was it established
that "stengah" is Malay for "half." It came to mean a
drink because it seemed the easiest way for a Malay serv-
ant to gather what a Britisher wanted when in need of a
half-size "spot" of his favorite beverage. So that,_ when
Mr. Maugham's characters call for stengahs, what they get
are small Scotch-and-Sodas.
   The pre-prohibition Stinger was thus composed:
STINGER       Two-thirds Brandy
              One-third White Creme de Menthe
              Frappe, and serve in cocktail glass
  In the Stinger that now comes back to us from France,  _. .-;:~.
the Brandy and the White Mint mingle in. equal pro- ;!~~?:fl~·.
portions.                                               f1.'fjf ····
  From Paris too have come since Repeal a number of ~- .
122      OLD WALDORF BAR BOOK-AMENDMENTS

good recipes based on Brandy, or Cognac, which is France's
best contribution to the category of Ardent Drink. Some of
the recipes were known in the United States before the
War. As all contain Brandy, I ·have classed them as


              BRANDY POTATIONS
BRANDY AND SODA One wine-glass Brandy
                One-third shaved Ice
                Fill with plain Soda Water

BRANDY                    Ice in Punch bowl
CHAMPAGNE                 Small glass of Brandy
PUNCH                     Liqueur glass Maraschino
                          Liqueur glass Benedictine
                          Barspoon pulverized Sugar
                          One quart Champagne
                          One pint aerated Water
                          Use plenty of Fruit; mix well

BRANDY                    Pony of Brandy
CIDER NECTAR              One quart Cider
(pitcher)                 One glass Sherry
                          One bottle Soda Water
                          Juice of half Lemon
                          Sweeten to taste
                          Grate Nutmeg on top
                          Add sprig of Verbena and dash
                             of Pineapple Extract, or few
                             spoons Pineapple Juice
                          Ice; mix; strain
           WITH FRENCH SPIRIT                    123
BRANDY COBBLER    One-half tablespoon Sugar in
                    Water
                  One dash Maraschino (tall
                    glass)
                  One jigger Brandy
                  One slice Orange, quartered
                  Fill with Ice; stir well; dress
                    with fruits and serve with
                  , straws
BRANDY            Fill glass. two-thirds with Ice
COCKTAIL          Three dashes Syrup
                  Three dashes Angostura Bitters
                  Om! dash Orange Bitters
                  Fill glass with Brandy
                  Twist piece of Lemon Peel
BRANDY            One lump Sugar (whiskey
COCKTAIL            glass)
(OLD-FASHIONED)   Crush in dash of aerated Water
                  One dash Orange Bitters
                  One cube Ice
                  Piece of Lemon Peel
                  One jigger Brandy; s~ir (spoon)
BRANDY COLLINS    Fill Collins glass one-third with
                     sliaved Ice
                  One wine-glass Brandy
                  Fill with aerated Water
BRANDY DAISY      Fill shaker half-full of Ice
                  Three dashes Syrup
                  Three dashes Cura~o
                  Three dashes Lemon Juice
        124    OLD WALDORF BAR BOOK-AMENDMENTS

                            One wine-glass Brandy
                            Shake; strain; fill with aerated
                              Water


•
fJ::
~·     . BRANDY FIZZ        One wine-glass Brandy
                            Three dashes Lemon Juice
                            One teaspoon powdered Sugar
                            Ice; fill with aerated Water;
                              stir

        BRANDY FLIP         Fill shaker half-full of Ice
                            One Egg
                            One-half tablespoon Sugar
                            One wine-glass Brandy
                            Shake; strain; grate Nutmeg on
                               top
        BRANDY              Two dashes each, of Syrup,
        MORNING GLORY         Lemon Juice, Cura~o and
                              Absinthe
                            One-half jigger Brandy
                            One-half jigger Rye Whiskey
                            Shake; strain; fill glass with
                              aerated Water

        GEORGIA             Three-quarters wine-glass
        MINT JULEP            Brandy
                            Three-quarters wine-glass Peach
                              Brandy
                            Teaspoon powdered Sugar
                            Twelve sprigs fresh Mint
                            Place Mint in tall glass; add
                              Sugar, dissolved in Water;
           WITH FRENCH SPIRIT                  125

                    add the Brandies; fill glass
                    with shaved Ice. Do not crush
                    Mint
MOSELLE CUP       One pint Moselle
(pitcher)         One pint aerated Water
                  One glass Sherry
                  One pony Brandy
                  One pony Anisette
                  Three thin slices Pineapple
                  Rind of one Lemon; sweeten to
                    taste ·
                  lee·; fresh Mint on top
RHINE WINE CUP   Two liqueur glasses Brandy on
(pitcher)         cracked Ice
                 One liqueur glass Orange Cura-
                    <;ao
                  One liqueur glass Maraschino
                  One quart Rhine Wine
                  One-half pint aerated Water
                  Fruits; piece Cucumber Peel
                  Several sprigs fresh Mint; mix
                    well
SAUTERNE CUP     Two ponies Brandy .on cracked
(pitcher)          Ice
                 One pony Orange Curac;ao
                 One pony Maraschino
                 One quart Sauterne
                 Half-pint aerated Water; Fruits
                 Piece of Cucumber Peel; fresh ..
                    Mint· mix                    '~ilih:·,.
                           '
126       OLD WALDORF BAR BOOK-AMENDMENTS



             2.   CUBAN CONCOCTIONS

   It was during trips to the West Indies, during the last
dozen years or more, that many Americans learned a good
deal about good cocktails and other mixed drinks that was
not always practicable either at home or in Europe. In such
beverages they often found solace, cures for home-sickness
and new tastes and flavors of delightful charm, not to men-
tion considerable potency. Most of such travelers found
their ideas of what may make good drinks first broadened
in Havana.

                       COCKTAILS
   From Will P. Taylor, manager of the Hotel National,
in Havana, who stuck at his post all through the recent lo-
cal disturbances, which included a bombardment of his
hotel, I have obtained the choicest Cuban Rum recipes.
Out of compliment to Mr. Taylor, who was last resident
manager of the Old Waldorf-Astoria, is placed at the head
of this list the distinctive cocktail which at his hotel is also
called a Daiquiri, or a Bacardi. It is served in a tall glass,
instead of the flat Champagne type usual at llavana bars,
and to my taste is at its best when white Bacardi is used.
The recipe:
NATIONAL             Equal parts of Bacardi and Pineapple
                       Juice
                  "' Squeeze of Lemon
                     Dash of Apricot Brandy
                     Ice; shake; strain
                  CUBAN CONCOCTIONS                   I'27

  Other Havana recipes follow. Cocktails should be shaken
except where stirring is specified.
BACARDI           One-half jigger Bacardi
DUBONNET          One-half jigger Dubonnet
                  Juice of half Lime              .
                  One teaspoonful Grenadine; shaved Ice
                    in glass
BACARDI           One dash Angostura Bitters
OLD-              Two dashes Orahge'.Bitters
FASHIONED         One lump Sugar, dissolved m two
                    spoonfuls W.ater
                  One jigger Bacardi
                  Serve in "old-fashioned" glass
                  Dress with Fruit and fresh Mint
BACARDI           Half wine-glass Bacardi
VERMOUTH          Half wine-glass French Vermouth
(Dry)             Shaved Ice (Stir)
BACARDI           Half wine-glass Bacardi
VERMOUTH          Half wine-glass· Italian Vermouth
(Sweet)           Shaved Ice (Stir)
BERRY             One-third mixed Orange and Pineapple
                    Juice                      ··
                  Two-thirds Bacardi
                  Dash of Grenadine

BISHOP            Juice of half a Lime
                  One-half barspoon Sugar
                  Two-thirds Bacardi
                  One-third Claret
        128      OLD WALDORF BAR BOOK-AMENDMENTS

        BOWMAN            Crush small spoonful Sugar



I
        BACARDI           Three sprigs Mint
    .
                          One-third Orange Juice
                          Two-thirds Bacardi
'
    ~        Named after the late John McEntee Bowman, Amer-
          ican hotel man, who was the first to introduce modern
          American hotel-keeping into Havana and who, making
          the acquaintance of Bacardi on its native heath, prob-
          ably did more to popularize it among Americans than
          any other one person.
        COUNTRY            One-half Bacardi
        CLUB               One-half French Vermouth
                           Dash of Orange Cura~ao
        CUBAN              One-half Orange Juice
        BLOSSOM            One-half Bacardi
                           Dash of Maraschino
        CUBAN              One-fourth Orange Juice
        BRONX              One-fourth Bacardi
                           One-fourth French Vermouth
                           One-fourth Italian Vermouth
        CUBAN              Two dashes Grenadine
        CLOVER             Juice one Lime
        CLUB                Dash of Orange Juice
                           :White of one Egg
                           One drink of Bacardi (white wine-
                              glass)
        CUBAN     " One-third Bacardi
        CORONATION One-third French Vermouth
                    One-third Dubonnet (Stir)
                     CUBAN CONCOCTIONS                  129

    CUBAN             Two-thirds Bacardi
    LIBERAL           One-third Italian Vermouth
                      One dash Amer Picon (Stir)
    CUBAN             One-half Bacardi
    MANHATTAN         One-half Italian Vermcuth
                      A few drops Angostura Bitters
    CUBAN             One-half Bacardi
    PRINCE            One-half Italian Vermouth
                      Dash of white Cre}lle de Menthe (Stir)
1
    CUBAN             One-third Lemon ·or Lime Juice
    SIDE-CAR          One-third B<\cardi
                      One-third Triple Sec or Cointreau
    CUBAN ROSE        One-third Orange Juice
                      Two-thirds Bacardi
                      Dash of Grenadine

    DAIQUIRI            One part Bacardi
                        Juice of half a Lime
                        One barspoon powdered Sugar
        Note: The order of adding ingredients is ·important.
     Personal preference dictates serving the cocktail with
     finely shaved ice in the glass.

    DOROTHY GISH         One-third mixed Orange and Pine-
                           apple Juice
                         Two-thirds Bacardi
                         Dash of Apricot Brandy

    ELIXIR                Juice of half a Lime
                          One-half barspoon Sugar
IJO   OLD WALDORF BAR BOOK-AMENDMENTS

                  Two-thirds Bacardi Elixir
                  One-third Bacardi
FOUR DOLLARS      One-third Bacardi
                  One-third French Vermouth
                  One-third Italian Vermouth
GRAPEFRUiT        One-third Grapefruit Juice
BLOSSOM           Two-thirds Bacardi
                  Three dashes Maraschino

GRENADINE         One jigger Bacardi
                  One teaspoon Grenadine
                  Juice of half Lime (shaved Ice in
                     glass)
HAVANA OPERA      One-half Bacardi
                  One-half Dubonnet
                  Dash of Lemon Juice
                  Twist Orange Peel, on top

HAVANA SMILE      One-half Bacardi
                  One-half Italian Vermouth
                  A little Sugar
                  A little Lime Juice

HIGH-STEPPER       One-third Orange Juice
                .. Two-thirds Bacardi
                   Dash of Apricot Brandy

ISLE OF PINES     One-half teaspoon Sugar
                  One-third Grapefruit Juice
                  Two-thirds Bacardi
               CUBAN CONCOCTIONS                  131

MARY              One-third Pineapple Juice
PICKFORD          Two-thirds Bacardi
                  Dash of Grenadine

MENENDEZ          One-third mixed Orange and Pine-
                    apple Juice
                  One-third Bacardi
                  One-third French Vermouth
                  Dash of Apricot Brandy

PARADISE          Two-thirds Bacardi
                  One-third Apricot Brandy
PRESIDENTE        One-half Bacardi
                  One-half French Vermouth
                  One dash Grenadine (shake or
                   stir)
                  Twist Orange Peel on top
SUNSHINE          One-third Pineapple Juice
                  One-third Bacardi
                  One-third French Vermouth
                  Dash of Grenadine
YACHT CLUB        Two-thirds B~rdi
                  One-third Italian Vermouth ..
                  Dash of Apricot Brandy (Stir)

           FIZZES AND FLIPS
                                                                 .




                                                        •
BACARDI FIZZ      Juice of half Lemon                       . .
                  One barspoon Sugar                         .
                  One jigger Bacardi; Ice; shake
                     IJ'.:.:   OLD WALDORF BAR BOOK-AMENDMENTS




~,
 ..~.
                                          Strain into fizz glass; fill from
                                             siphon
                     GOLDEN FIZZ          Juice of half Lemon
~    ,, . . .                             One barspoon Sugar
. ·.~. . . -~ ..;;
                                          Yolk of one Egg
                                          One jigger Bacardi; Ice; shake
                                          Strain into fizz glass; fill from
                                             siphon
                     PINEAPPLE            One barspoon Sugar
                     FIZZ                 One jigger Pineapple Juice
                                          One jigger Bacardi; Ice; shake
                                          Strain into fizz glass; fill from
                                             siphon
                     ROYAL FIZZ           Juice of half Lemon
                                          One barspoon Sugar
                                          One jigger Bacardi
                                          One Egg; Ice; shake
                                          Strain into fizz glass and fill from
                                            siphon
                      SILVER FIZZ          Juice of half Lemon
                                           One barspoon Sugar
                                           One jigger Bacardi
                                           White of one Egg; Ice; shake
                                           Strain into fizz glass; fill from
                                             siphon
                      SUNSHINE FIZZ        Juice of half Lemon
                                           Juice of half an Orange
                                           White of one Egg
                                           One jigger Bacardi; Ice; shake
               CUBAN CONCOCTIONS                 133
                  Strain into fizz glass; fill from
                    siphon
BACARDI FLIP      One barspoon Sugar
                  One Egg
                  One jigger Bacardi; Ice; shake
                  Strain into a Delmonico glass
ORANGE JUICE      One barspoon Sugar
FLIP              One Egg
                  One drink Orange Juice
                  One drink Bacardi; Ice; shake
                  Serve in a ~zz glass

           MISCELLANEOUS
BACARDI BUCK       Two lumps of Ice m high-ball
                     glass
                   Juice of half Lime
                   One jigger Bacardi
                   "Split" of Ginger Ale
BACARDI            Juice of one Lime
COLLINS             One spoonful Sugar
                   One jigger Bacardi; Ice; shake
                   Strain into Collins glass in which
                      are three lumps Ice        ···
                   Fill with Club Soda
                   Stir with spoon
BACARDI            One lump Ice in Collins glass
COOLER             One jigger Bacardi
                   Plenty of fresh Mint
                   "Split" of Ginger Ale
134   OLD WALDORF BAR BOOK-AMENDMENTS

BACARDI         Juice of one Lime
DAISY           Two dashes Grenadine
                One jigger Bacardi; lee; shake
                Strain into goblet filled with shaved
                   Ice
                Dash of Yellow Chartreuse on top
                Dress with ·Fruit and Mint

BACARDI          One spoonful Sugar
EGG-NOG          One wine-glass Bacardi
                 One Egg; one glass Milk
                 Ice; shake well
                 Strain into Collins glass
                 Grat-e little Nutmeg on top

BACARDI MILK     One glass hot Milk
PUNCH            One tablespoon Sugar
                 Pinch of grated Nutmeg
                 Yolk of one Egg
                 On;e jigger Bacardi
                 Now, beat up thoroughly the yolk
                   of Egg with the Sugar; add
                   Milk, next Bacardi, next Nut-
                   meg. Mix thoroughly

BACARDI            Juice of one Lime
PLANTERS'          Qne barspoon Sugar
PUNCH              One jigger Bacardi; shake
                 · Strain into goblet
                   Fill with shaved Ice
               ... Decorate with Fruit and Mint
             CUBAN CONCOCTIONS               135
BACARDI PLUS    One pony .Bacardi
                Two dashes Creme de Cacao
                One dash Anisette
                Shaved Ice; stir; strain
BACARDI         Two lumps Ice in high-ball glass
RICKEY          Juice of half Lime
                One jigger Bacardi
                "Split", of aerated· Water
BACARDI SOUR    Juice of half Lime
                One barspoon Sugar
                One jigger. Bacardi; Ice; shake
                Strain into a Delmonico glass
                Dress with Fruit
BACARDI         Crush half lump Sugar with little
TODDY             Water in "old-fashioned" glass
                One lump Ice
                One jigger Bacardi
                One Lemon Peel (Stir)
BRUNSWICK       Juice of half Lime
SOUR            Barspoon Sugar
                Jigger Bacardi; "Ice; shake
                Strain into Delmonico glass
                Dash of Claret on top; Fruit
CUBA LIBRE      Half portions of Bacardi and Coca ...?17-·~
                 Cola                            ~~2:
GROG            Two quarts Bacardi                  ~i~
                Two pounds Sugar                    ~~--
136     OLD WALDORF BAR BOOK-AMENDMENTS

                   Two quarts Formosa Oolong Tea
                   When serving, dilute one-half with
                    very hot Water in which Sugar
                    has been dissolved and put slice
                     of Lem~n in glass
MOJITO             Same as Bacardi Rickey, with little
                     Sugar and few sprigs of Mint
                     added
MORNING            One spoonful Sugar
STAR               One Egg
                   One-half jigger Bacardi
                   One-half jigger Port Wine
                   One glass Milk; Ice; shake well
                   Strain into a Collins glass
                   Grate little Nutmeg on top
NIGHTCAP           One-third Orange Cura~o
                   Two-thirds Bacardi
                   Yolk of one Egg; Ice; shake
                   Strain into white wine-glass
PEACH                Teaspoon powdered Sugar (tall
                        glass) dissolved in Water
                      Fresh crushed Mint
                      Juice of two Lemons
                      Three jiggers Bacardi
                      Layer of shaved Ice in glass
                      One whole pitted fresh Peach
                      Another layer shaved Ice
                  ... Dress with Mint; serve with straws
                   JAMAICAN JOLLIFIERS                     137

            3. JAMAICAN JOLLIFIERS

                  Rum, Ru.m, J amaica Rum!
                Who in thy praise is dumb?
                The strong, the weak, the gay, the glum-
                All call thee good, Jamaica Rum!
                                         -Old Song

    It is recorded in Rupert Hughes-or somewhere-that
 the Father of His Country so highly esteemed Jamaica
 Rum that he once swapped a perfectly healthy negro slave
 for a cask of it. That, somehow, makes one recall a famous
 cartoon of the late Homer Davenp,ort's-Roosevelt with
 Uncle Sam tapping him on the shoulder and saying, "He's
 good enough for me! "
    As a matter of fact, George Washington did not stand
 alone. Many of our Revolutionary and colonial fathers
 knew Jamaica Rum and liked it. The Pilgrim Fathers
knew rum, or came to know it, and when swallowed it
 seemed to go down well with the Puritan conscience. For
many years rum was one of the products of New England.
Perhaps Plymouth Rock and Massachusetts Bay were orig-
inally attracted to it by its ancient name.             .
   When Englishmen first discovered what could be done
with cane sugar in Barbados, rum was known as "Kill-
Devill," and under that guise it made its first appearance
in English literature. It was said to be a sure cure for
"Blue Devils." Soon it was rechristened with the Devon-
shire name of "Rumbullion,'' meaning "a great tumult,,-        .;/~- ;~
probably a case of swapping cause for e.ffec~. In time it be- ;~~:~·.
came the most famous product of Jamaica, its manufacture :· /It~-~··
in that Island having attained such a degree of perfection ~. .
1J8        OLD WALDORF BAR BOOK-AMENDMENTS

by 1788 that John Hunter, a British army physician, after
a careful observation of its effects, acquitted Jamaica Rum
of any complicity in the ills that befell British soldiers sta-
tioned there; in substance, Hunter declared it had no stain
on its character, and that it could be drunk with absolute
impunity. Thereupon the British navy adopted it as its
own. Still, certain British lexicographers maintain that
"Rum" is an American word, coined generations before
the British acquired the habit of abbreviation, from the
good old Devonshire "Rumbullion."
   It is to Mr. T. G. S. Hooke, for many years assistant
manager of the old Hotel Belmont, in New York, but
for some years past general manager of the Myrtlebank
Hotel in Kingston, Jamaica, and the Tichfield, in Port
Antonio, that I am indebted for the following collection
of the best cocktails and other local concoctions in which
the most-famed product of Jamaica finds favor among
visitors from northern latitudes.


                        COCKTAILS
  Note: Ingredients should be added in order named. Shake except
where stirring is specified. Cocktails should usually be strained.

CHINESE                    Fill bar glass half full of Ice
                           One or two dashes Angostura
                           Three dashes Maraschino
                           Three dashes Cura910
                           Three dashes Grenadine
                           Half glass Jamaica Rum (Stir)
                           Add Cherry; squeeze Lemon
                             Peel on top
              JAM AI CAN JOLLIFIERS           139
DOLORES            Half glass Sherry
                   Quarter glass Jamaica Rum
                   One-eighth glass Dubonnet
                   One-eighth glass Orange Juice
                   Dash of aromatic Pepper
FLAPPER            One-half Jamaica Rum
                   One-half French Vermouth
                   Two dashes Angostura Bitters
                   Sweeten to taste
                   Serve with· Maraschino Cherry
                     and slice ·of Orange
GRENADE            Half glass Grenadine
                   Quarter glass French Vermouth
                   Quarter glass Jamaica Rum
HONEY DEW          Eight parts Jamaica Rum
                   Two parts Gin
                   Two parts Vermouth
                   Two parts Water
                   Juice of fresh Lime or Lemon,
                     sweetened
                   Crushed Ice in glass (Stir)
                            '           .
JAMAICA       Three-fourths Jamaica Rum
KNICKERBOCKER One-fourth Orange, Lemon or




JAMAICA
ORANGE
                Lime Juice
              Two dashes Grenadine
              Crushed Ice in glass (Stir)
              Half glass Jamaica Rum
              Quarter glass Italian Vermouth •
                                                   Ii
                                                    . '.- ~
              Quarter glass sweet Orange Juice      - ·
      I40   OLD WALDORF BAR BOOK-AMENDMENTS




 j
ti?
 "-
      JAMAICA RUM
                       Pinch of powdered Cinnamon
                       Half glass Jamaica Rum
                       Quarter glass Gin
                       One teaspoon Grenadine
                       Juice of one Lime or Lemon
      KINGSTON         Half glass Jamaica Rum
                       Quarter glass Kilmmel
                       Quarter glass strained Orange
                        Juice
                       Dash of Pimento Dram
      LIFE~SAVER       One-half Jamaica Rum
                       One-half Orange Juice
      MAREE            Half glass Jamaica Rum
                       Half glass sweetened Lime or
                         Lemon Juice
                       Dash· of Bitters
                       Bit of grated Nutmeg
      PLANTER'S         One-third Jamaica Rum
                        One-third Orange Juice
                        One-third Lime or Lemon Juice
                        Serve with crushed Ice
      QUEEN             Five parts Jamaica Rum
      ELIZABETH         One part Lime or Lemon Juice
                        One part Grenadine
      RUM AND           Half glass Jamaica Rum
      FRUIT             Quarter glass sweet Fruit Juice
                        One teaspoon Kilmmel
                        One· teaspoon Benedictine
             JAMAICAN JOLLIFIERS                         141

                  Two teaspoons Lime or Lemon
                   Juice
RUM CRUSTA        Prepare glass thus:
                  Moisten edge in Lemon, dip m
                     powdered Sugar
                  Cut ends from a Lemon; peel rest
                     like an apple; put rind inside
                     glass so that it lines the latter
                  Fill shaker with Ice
                  Three 9ashes plain Syrup
                  Three dashes Maraschino
                  Two dashes Angostura Bitters
                  J ulce of quarter Lime or Lemon
                  Half glass Jamaica Rum
                  Shake; strain into glass
                  Fruit; serve with spoon
SEPTEMBER         White of one Egg       .
MORN              Juice of half Lime or Lemon
(Jamaica)         One teaspoon Grenadine
                  Half glass Jamaica Rum
TEA TIME          Half glass Jamaica Rum
                  Half 'glass cold Tea
                  Dash of Lime or Lemon Juice
                  Sweeten as desired ~

VOLCANO           Heaping teaspoon granulated
                    Sugar, dissolved in Water
                  One-half glass Jamaica Rum
                  Juice of Lime or Lemon (Stir)
                  Fill with crushed Ice and stir again :~, .:_ - ~.: .
142    OLD WALDORF BAR BOOK-AMENDMENTS

WINTER            Two-thirds glass Jamaica Rum
                  Juice of one Lime or Lemon
                  Sugar to taste
                  Teaspoon of Ginger Brandy and
                    Pimento Liqueur
                  Two dashes Angostura Bitters

                 PUNCHES
CARIBBEAN    Two quarts Jamaica Rum
FISH-HOUSE   One quart Brandy
             Four ounces powdered Sugar
             Juice of twelve Lemons
             Liqueur glass Maraschino
             Large wine-glass Peach Brandy
             Ice; mix well; Fruit
COLD RUM AND One-third pint Lime or Lemon
BRANDY          Juice
             Twelve ounces Sugar, dissolved in
                Water
             Half pint Brandy
             One gill Peach Brandy
             One gill Jamaica Rum
             Two and one-half pints Ice Water
             Add Ice; mix
HOT RUM            One pint Jamaica Rum
                   Half pint Brandy
                   Half wine-glass Kilmmel
                   Half wine-glass Benedictine
                  ·Peel of one Lemon
                   Peel of one Orange
                   One sliced Orange
              JAMAICAN JOLLIFIERS                143
                   One sliced Lemon or Lime
                   Sweeten to taste
                   Add three pints boiling Water
                   Stir up well
JAMAICA MILK       Fill shaker with Ice
                   One tablespoon plain Syrup
                   Quarter glass Jamaica Rum
                   Quarter gl~s Brandy
                   Fill with rich MiTh:
                   Shake; strain; serve in tumbler
                     with grated _Nutmeg on top
JAMAICA PUNCH Fill shaker with Ice
              One tablespoon plain Syrup
              Juice of half Lime or Lemon
              Half glass Jamaica Rum; shake;
                strain
MISSISSIPPI        One small glass Brandy
PUNCH              One-half glass Jamaica Rum
                   One-half glass Bourbon Whiskey
                   One and one-half tablespo.ons
                     Sugar
                   Mix well; pour into tumbler; fill
                     with shaved Ice; add small
                     pieces of Orange or other Fruits
MYERS'             One part Lime Juice
PLANTER'S          Two parts Sugar
PUNCH              Three parts Jamaica Rum
                   Four parts Water and Ice
                   Dash of Angostura Bitters
                   Shake well
        144   OLD WALDORF BAR BOOK-AMENDMENTS

        OLD NAVY         One quart Jamaica Rum



I
        PUNCH            One pint Brandy
    .
                         Three pints Champagne
                         Two-thirds pint Lemon Juice
'   ~                    One and one-half pounds Sugar
                         Juice of three Oranges
                         One gill Peach Brandy

                    MISCELLANEOUS
        BLACK STRIPE     Dissolve teaspoon Honey in little
                           hot Water
                         Cool; add three lumps Ice
                         Half glass Jamaica Rum
                         Fill with cold Water
                         Grate Nutmeg on top
                         (Same as a hot drink made by
                            using boiling Water)
        CLARET CUP       Crush pound of red or black Cher-
        AUX CERISES         ries
                         Cover with quarter bottle Jamaica
                           Rum
                         Let stand several hours in cool
                           place
                         Add two bottles Claret (or three)
                         One sliced Orange; thin Lemon
                           Peel
                         Ice; add aerated Water
        EGG-NOG           0.ue fresh Egg
        BALTIMORE         One teaspoon plain Syrup
                          Quarter glass Madeira
             JAMAICAN JOLLIFIERS                   145
                  Quarter glass Jamaica Rum
                  Fresh Milk:
                  Ice; shake; strain into tumbler
                  Grated Nutmeg on top
EGG-NOG           Fill shaker with Ice
JAMAICA           One fresh Egg
                  One teasp9on plain Syrup
                  Half glass Jamaica Rum
                  Fill with riCh Milk
                  Shake well; strain into tumbler
                  Grated Nutmeg on top
EGG-NOG           Fill shaker with Ice
MYERS             One fresh Egg
                  One teaspoon plain Syrup
                  Quarter glass Brandy
                  Quarter glass Jamaica Rum
                  Fill with rich Milk
                  Shake well; strain into tumbler
                  Grated Nutmeg on top
HOT SPICED        Two teaspoons Sugar, dissolved !n
RUM                 boiling Water
                  Half glass Jamaica Rum
                  Piece of Butter, walnut-size
                  Teaspoon mixed Spices ( Cinna- ··
                     mon, Cloves, etc.)
                  Fill glass with boiling Water
                  Slice of Lemon on top             ~;.-;:i1 .
JAMAICA           Make Tea; before it becomes bit- {¥,~Ii
COLD TEA           ter, strain into jug and let grow
                   cold.
I .
           OLD WALDORF BAR BOOK-AMENDMENTS

                       Put in tumblers, one for each
                         person
                       One teaspoon Prune Syrup
                       One teaspoon Cura910
                       One teaspoon Jamaica Rum
                       Ice; sweeten to taste; fill glasses
                         from jug

      JAMAICA          Two lumps Ice
      HIGH-BALL        Haff cocktail glass Jamaica Rum
                       Fill from siphon
                       Add slice of Lime or Lemon

      JAMAICA JULEP    Mash half dozen sprigs fresh
                          Mint with Sugar and Water
                       Strain into bar glass; Ice
                       Half cocktail glass Jamaica Rum
                       Shake; strain into glass thus pre-
                          pared:
                       Tumbler or balloon glass, filled
                          with shaved lee; three sprigs
                          fresh Mint, dipped in powdered
                          Sugar, and leaves upward
                       Now decorate drink with Berries,
                          Pineapple, Banana, Orange or
                          other fruit

      JAMAICA           Juice of six Oranges
      ORANGE CUP  ..    Half pint Water
                        Sweeten; put in jug with
                        Half tumbler Jamaica Rum
                        Two teaspoons Essence of Orange
             JAMAICAN JOLLIFIERS                 147
                  Let jug stand on Ice one hour
                  Serve, filling glasses with aerated
                    Water
JAMAICA           One pint Jamaica Rum (tall
SWIZZLE             pitcher, or jug)
                  Juice of six Limes or Lemons
                  Six small cubes Ice
                  Four, spoons Sugar
                  Few sprigs fresh Mint
                  Use swizzle stick, rolling top be-
                     tween hands until mixture
                     froths 1 and outside of pitcher
                     frosts

RUM-ADE          Two tablespoons Jamaica Rum
                   in glass of Lemonade
RUM DAISY         Dissolve little Sugar in Water in
                    shaker; Ice
                  Juice of half Lime or Lemon
                  Quarter glass Cura9lo or Yellow
                    Chartreuse
                  Half glass Jamaica Rum .
                  Shake; strain; decorate with fruit;
                    serve with spoon



                                                        1;
                                                         ·
RUM RICKEY       Two lumps Ice in tumbler or tall
                   glass
                 Squeeze half Lime or Lemon
                 Half cocktail glass Jamaica Rum              .
                 Fill with chilled aerated Water; •      . ·· 1
                   serve with spoon                      . ··
                             148   OLD WALDORF BAR BOOK-AMENDMENTS

                             RUM SANGAREE     Spoonful Sugar, dissolved m
~,
 --                                             small wine-glass Water
                                              Pour into large tumbler or tall
~· J r•            .
                                                glass
•
    •.\..
            •. •
            .      ~
                       .;J
                                              Fill up with Jamaica Rum and
                                                Water in desired proportions
                                              One or two lumps Ice; serve with
                                                spoon
                             RUM SOUR          Fill shaker with Ice
                                              One teaspoon plain Syrup
                                              Juice of half Lime or Lemon
                                              Half cocktail glass Jamaica Rum
                                              Shake; strain; splash of Soda
                                                 Water on top
                                              Fruit

                             RUM TODDY         Dissolve Sugar in Water in small
                             (cold)               tumbler
                                               Ice
                                               Half cocktail glass Jamaica Rum

                             RUM TODDY         Dissolve Sugar in hot Water in
                             (hot)                small tumbler
                                               Half cocktail glass Jamaica Rum
                                               Slice of Lemon on top

                             TEA COBBLER       One teaspoon plain Syrup m
                                                 shaker
                                               Teaspoon Pineapple Syrup, or
                                                 Curar;ao
                                               Half cocktail glass Jamaica Rum
                                               Ice; shake; strain into tumbler
             JAMAICAN JOLLIFIERS                149
                    £lied with cracked Ice; decorate
                    with sliced Fruit; serve with
                    straws and spoon

WHITE LION       Juice of half Lime or Lemon
                 Quarter glass Raspberry Syrup
                 Quarter glass Cura~o
                 Half glass Jamaica Rum
                 Shake, strain into tumbler filled
                    with shaved Ice
                 Fruit         ,
V. HISTORICAL



         THE OLD WALDORF BAR
                       1897-1919
              "And drop upon its grave a tear."

N      OT far from the spot where the Indian chief who
        sold Peter Minuit the Island of Manhattan coined
the expression, "Here's how!" when he tackled the bottle
of rum that the crafty Dutchman threw a~er his twenty-
four dollars to bind the bargain; not far from that spiritu-
ous spot, in later years, arose a mighty hotel. In one of
its great halls, disciples, if not descendants, of the noble
red man were wont to assemble every afternoon, and to
preface, as well as conclude, with his utterance on that
memorable occasion, deals which caused the original New
York real estate speculation to dwindle to the proportions
of a fly-speck.
   What some of those men did, under the influence of a
just-ended session of the Stock Exchange, of the news-
ticker that kept discharging its tape into a waste-basket,
and possibly-and probably-of what was dispensed in
that hall by a dozen talented bartenders, helped make
American history. Men staked fortunes there; they formed
pools; they plotted to corner markets. For years the names
of certain of them made the first page of the newspapers
almost every. day. They were, in their way, giants, and
they took their ease in a Gargantuan way.
   Many of that noble army of gallant drinkers I knew
by name; many others I knew by sight. The majority
                              150
                        HISTORICAL                     151

 have gone. The great hall where they exercised elbows
and appeased arid appetites every day, some of them for
 more than twenty years, ceased to function one dark day
 in June, 1919. While the light holds, let me try to
recreate it, and to limn the shapes of some of those who
went surging in and out, while, above the roar of con-
versation and the chatter of the ticker, the air was rent
with calls of "Same here!" and "tlere's how!"
   On the walls are a: few paintings-expensive.looking.
Here and there is a piece of m~ssive, if not always orna-
mental, statuary. In one corner stands a great rectangular
counter, behind which a dozen men in white coats are busy
all afternoon and evening ministering to an endless array
of thirsts.
   The crowd surges in. Everyone struggles to get a foot-
hold on a brass rail that runs around the bottom of the
bar. Sometimes the gang is ten deep, all pressing toward
that common goal. On every face is written strong re-
solve. Each man pushes forward until some drinker who
has been monopolizing a coveted spot falls or otherwise
gives way; and then, with something like a shout, the
late-comer, if he is a good squirmer or ducker, wiggles
into the place thus vacated, t0 claim the drink he yelled
for while still a Sheridan's ride away.
   It should be stressed that the scene described was typi-
cal only of hours when the room was overcrowded, as it
frequently was toward six o'clock of an afternoon, when
men would come in who acted as if they had .only one aim
in life, and that was to get outside of a drink, and with no
delay. Frequently, as intimated, their chances improved
when some "tank" at the barside had filled to overflowing
and had to be either carried or led away.
152          OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

   But, be it also emphasized, that Bar was not regarded
as a place of "ill-repute." In its early days, particularly,
men of the highest reputation frequented it; some never
went from their offices downtown to their homes without
calling in for at least an appetizer-or something to make
them forget the worry or turmoil of the day's work. Any-
body could look in, and most every man who entered the
Waldorf-Astoria in those days did look, at least once. It
was known all over the country; in mining camps from
Mexico to Alaska, it evoked recollections of tastes and
odors that parched many a throat. As a matter of fact, its
fame was world-wide.
   Visitors to the Old Waldorf during its latter days found
difficulty, did they seek to recreate the picture of that great
hall where Bacchus so long drew his greatest throngs of
pilgrims and devotees, and where such, in turn, drew in-
spiration of the widest spirituous variety. On the spot
mostly occupied by the great bar counter, a humidor had
been built, and ex-tanks who came and looked through a
once popular doorway often could not remember which
was the proper direction to cast their sighs of regret. The
back entrance from the lobby-past the telephone switch-
board-with its inviting facilities for gentlemen whose
capacity had been stretched, had been closed, and here
young women armed with pencils and typewriters were
taking dictation from industrial, financial, railway and le-
gal magnates, ..so classed. Across the room and against a
partition were desks for various managerial heads and
 factotums. And when one's eye reached that partition they
 had embrac;:oo only half of the room where for decades
 the thirsty had libationed from eight in the morning until
closing time. The second part of the great oak-wainscoted
                         HISTORICAL                       153
 hall had been converted into a bus station, and there one
 bought tickets for Montclair, the Oranges, and other points
 in New Jersey, or else for New Haven and other way sta-
 tions to Boston.
    Some of the decorations of the temple remained. For
 example, two great Egyptian-like bronze figures still stood
 one on either side of the private entrance to the Jade Room,
 which did not look like a door at all until you found the
 handle-not easy for one who had lingered over his liquor.
 Then there was still one picture, "The Ballet Dancer,"
which in that long-past age referred to probably inspired
more toasts than any ot~er single painting in the world;
which turned more men i11 the direction of art-connoisseur-
ing than any other example of high art known, and whose
legs and lingerie caused far more comment and centered
more scrutiny than all the cigarette pictures of stage fa-
vorites in tights that used to help sell "coffin nails,'' as
they were termed, during the days when "The Ballet
Dancer's" reign was being established. On the opposite
wall hung a big copy of Paolo Veronese's "Wedding at
Cana, in Galilee,'' for contemplation by those whom liquor
put or left in an attitude proper for the contemplation of re-
ligious subjects. High above, the paneling still hung some
of the elks' heads with which the late George C. Boldt,
long the old hotel's proprietor, had adorned the place.
   But when that laboratory of Bacchic end~avor was in its
heyday, pilgrims came from far and wide-from all cor-
ners of the globe. They flocked about the rectangular Bar
counter and drank deeply of what was good stuff, if not
wisdom. As soon as the first bartender appeared in the
morning, before even arranging the multitude of glasses
of various sizes and shapes on the high stand that took up
                                                               I)

154          OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

the central space of the rectangle, he must satisfy the de-
mands of at least half a dozen accumulated patrons, either
for breakfast appetizers or for something to take away what
was left of the jag of the night before. From five o'clock
in the evening until eight, the room was jammed at its
tables and at its counter, and late-comers, whose "innards"
were sending out an SOS, found themselves impeded
in their progress toward satisfaction by S.R.O. conditions.
   During those three hours named, the Waldorf-Astoria
Bar was Wall Street moved bodily uptown for an ad-
journed session of the Stock Exchange, with men betting
on how stocks would perform the next day. In one dis-
creet corner a ticker kept clicking off news. Here market
pool!! were often formed. Here were to be found men
who were willing to bet on anything, and to any amount.
Financiers and market operators, with names that gained
newspaper front pages every day or so, clustered about the
tables, or joined in the maggot-like surge that squirmed
for a foothold on the substantial brass tradition that ran
along the bottom of the counter. Some who once gained
such a post of vantage never left until the Bar closed.
   Many forms of beverage dated their origin to the in-
spiration of some clever Waldorf bartender. Or, perhaps,
it was a translation of the passing fancy of a patron who
wanted something different to drink, and entirely of his
own conception. If the result met his expectations, he
might thereafter call only for his own cocktail, or what-
ever it was, and the bartender, out of compliment, would
christen the new drink after its godfather.
   A school of drinking, and a distinctive one, the old Wal-
dorf Bar undoubtedly was. And-which may surprise many
-it was a real school of art-a school in which more than
                          HISTORICAL                        155
one connoisseur who has since spent hundreds of thousands
in collecting paintings and sculpture, got his first tuition from
the pictures on the Bar walls, whose appeal was often em-
phasized by the cumulative influence of cocktails or high-
balls.
   More than one middle-aged or elderly American who
has survived the era that saw bootlegging grow into. one
of our most important industries, has reason to remember
gratefully at least one feature of this particular American
School of Drinking, and in which, perhaps, it was preemi-
nent among institutions of similar learning. This was the
free lunch table. There are many rich .men in this land to-
day, who, were they frank, could date their first acquaint-
ance with Russian caviar to that generous board. There,
too, many of them ~rst learned of the superb succulence
of Virginia "vintage" ham. As a matter of fact, the exoteric
could there give the "once-over" to delicacies they had
never before seen-or even imagined. No menu in puz-
zling French to mystify or confuse. The uninitiate saw
what he saw, and what he fancied he could sample at his
leisure. And spread out for his delectation-for he was free
to choose, and to whatever extent-wc::re light and savory
canapes, thirst-provoking anchovies in various-tinted guises,
and other delicacies; and there were substantial slices of
beef or ham, ordinary as well as Virgin~a, and a wonder-
ful assortment of cheeses of ·robust odors; not forgetting
the crisp radishes and sprightly, delicate spring onions, and
olives stuffed and unstuffed.
   The temporary addicts of the lunch table were never
disturbed, or rarely. Their meal ticket depended merely
upon good conduct-supported, of course, by a good front.
The occasional investment of a quarter in a bottle of beer
156          OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK.

-not necessarily spent before an attack upon the lunch
table-served to keep them in good standing. By such an
outlay as little as three times a week, a man could eat daily
from that hospitable offering a luncheon that, served in
one of the hotel's restaurants, would have set him back a
good two dollars-and get away with it. And many so dici.
The table in the Waldorf-Astoria Bar cost the hotel more
than seventy-five hundred dollars a year. It proved excel-
lent advertisement, for no inconsiderable slice of the
hotel's profits came from the sale of wines and liquors.
    Service was rendered with a distinction many establish-
ments of a similar nature lacked. For example, in its early
days, a small, snowy napkin went with each drink, enabling
a patron to remove certain traces from his mustache or his
whiskers-heavy mustaches and whiskers were abundant-
without toting home odors in his hip pocket, or wherever
he carried his handkerchief. And while questions were not
usually asked, men who bought drinks were supposed to be
able to freight them away intact, and not to spill them,
or to show other effects than a certain mellowness and
good fellowship-though perhaps fl:µency in argument or
reminiscence might be forgiven one who was standing
treat. In brief, a gentleman was supposed to be lar~ than
what he drank. The theory of the proprietor of the estab-
lishment was that all his patrons were gentlemen. And the
theory was good, even if it didn't always work out in
practiGe.
    The actual bar itself, a large, rectangular counter at the
 northeast corner of the room, as noted, had a brass rail
 running alL around its foot. In its center was a long re-
 frigerator topped by a snowy cloth and an orderly arrange-
 ment of drinking glasses. At one end of this cover stood
                         HISTORICAL                      157
 a good-sized bronze bear, looking as if it meant business;
 at the other end, a rampant bull. Midway between them
 was placed a tiny lamb, flanked on either side by a tall
 vase of flowers. The whole decoration was a more or less
 delicate compliment to the heaviest patronage of the room
 at cocktail-time, wags claiming that the ·flowers were all
 the lamb-the innocent public-got after Wall Street's
 bulls and bears had finished with him.
    To name the impqrtant figures that were to be seen at
 various times in that Barroom during its first fifteen or
twenty years would be like setting down most of the names
 from various editions of Who's Who in America-except-
ing, of course, always preachers-and including a good-
sized list taken from the British Who's Who and the Al-
manach de Gotha. As a gathering place for celebrities,
the room was one of the real sights of New York. But
in recollection, one cannot stop to assign faces to a partic-
ular period. There is too nearly a sea of them.
   While Colonel William F. Cody-"Buffalo Bill"-clung
to the old Hoffman House as long as his friend, Ed.
Stokes, was its proprietor, he used to drop into the Wal-
dorf Bar, and there one might discove.r him at a table
surrounded by a lot of admirers.
   Cody, with his wide-brimmed hat, long mustache and
goatee, and in the old days wearing a Prince Albert coat,
presented a handsome figure and one which eyes seldom
failed to follow.
   Men liked to invite Colonel Cody to "have one" with
them, and it is not on record that he ever refused. In ac-
cepting such an invitation, he followed an invariable
formula.
   "Sir," he would respond heartily, "you speak the Ian-
158          OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

guage of my tribe."
   John W . Gates, of "Betcha-a-million" fame, and his
bosom friend, Colonel "Ike" Ellwood, appeared in the
Bar, occasionally, though Gates' favorite hangout was the
Men's Cafe, across the hall. With them when he came to
New York almost invariably trailed Colonel John Lam-
bert, sometime warden of Joliet, Ill., penitentiary, but
president of the American Steel & Wire Company at the
time of the formation of the Steel Trust. In the Gates aura,
too, one would discover John A. Drake and the latter's
brother-in-law, Theodore P. Shonts-that was before he
was made chairman of the Panama Canal Commis~ion­
and Loyall L . Smith, a millionaire who had once been a
Chicago newsboy. And while its owner was a strict tee-
totaler, the round face of Diamond Jim Brady, brass fit-
tings salesman, gormand and dinner-party impresario,
~ould be seen circulating among the crowd, as he button-
holed this or that "Big Feller," the orb illuminated by
forty to a hundred carats of diamonds or emeralds, or sap-
phires, or whatnot, that glowed or gleamed from an ex-
pansive shirt-front or a particularly nojsy necktie.
   What now seems an almost incredible proportion of the
brokers and operators in the Wall Street of twenty-five to
thirty years ago-at least such as were family men-had
homes in the immediate vicinity of the Waldorf, West-
chester and Long Island and uptown apartments not yet
h~ving come into widespread vogue as dwelling places for
Wall Street. "Cocktail-hour" drew a real majority of them
to the Waldorf Bar. Whether they drank or not, there
they knew they would find men they wished to see.
   Many of these cocktail-hour patrons were hosts at tables.
As a rule, they actually drank cocktails at that time, Mar-
                        HISTORICAL                     159
tinis being most popular and Manhattans running second.
That was before the "Clover Club" had won in New York
temples of thirst a wide but short-lived popularity. Very
few fancy drinks were served at cocktail-time. There were
many customers, who would stand up to the bar with a
group of friends, and before they moved away would gulp
down five or six Manhattans or Martinis in succession. A
big banquet in the hotel would fill the Barroom at mid-
night, for whatever · they had had upstairs of cocktails,
champagne, and liqueurs, many men must have, in those
days, a nightcap. Often, it took several to get them prop-
erly "head-dressed" for bed.                              ·
   Not infrequently, revblution-experts were of the com-
pany present-men who were the heads or members of
organizations that stood ready, at the drop of a hat, or
upon receipt of a code cable, to start up trouble in any
Latin-American country, provided the price was forthcom-
ing. Gun-running was at one time a remunerative, if some-
time hazardous vocation-some spelled it "avocation"-in
the Caribbean and along the West coast from Nicaragua
down. One dealer in ammunition and guns owned, or
leased, an island up the Hudson, which was reported to be
well stocked with the latest· war material.of the day. This
could be promptly dumped into the hold of a chartered
"tramp" and headed wherever trouble was brewing.
   Every gold rush was followed sooner or later by an
influx of rough-looking men wearing wide-brimmed hats-
and more than once, cowhide boots-and the air. would
resound with tales of ccbig strikes" and of "prospects" that
promised big, and whose performances later made a big
hole in many a speculative bank account. Cripple Creek,
for example; Alaska, Tonopah-all paid tribute to Boldt's
160          OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

Bar. And those miners wanted the most expensive drinks.
Champagne was their first thought.
   More than once a flood of reminiscence, developed
through continuous imbibition, and the cropping up of
some subject that had been, or was possibly still disputable
among the men from the Still-Open Spaces, threatened
trouble. At least once a swift train of events beginning
with a slighting reference to the virtue, valor and dis-
cretion of "Bat" Masterson succeeded in starting a panic
in the Bar, because of the sudden materialization of the
subject of the reference, backed by his reputation for say-
ing the last word, and with a "gun."
   "Bat" Masterson, a United States Marshal, long famous
in the Northwest, and a friend of Theodore Roosevelt, was
in New York at the time, but not in the hotel, when the
thing started that, after he did come in, was effective in
holding up trade and leaving the bartenders on duty keep-
ing company only with the bull and the bear and the lamb
on top the refrigerator table.
   At a table in the middle of the room sat six big men,
some of them in wide-brimmed hats. Most of them were
mining men, and they were from Butte, Montana. Of the
group was Colonel "Dick" Plunkett, said to be a United
States Marshal.
   They were talking about gold strikes, mining conditions
and individual exploits, law and order, jumping claims,
and other things mining men usually discussed at such
gatherings. Not a little egocentric hero-worship was voiced,
but the talk was mostly of what other fellows had done;
of "bad 'ffien" and shootings. And Masterson's name was
mentioned as having saved the expense of a lot of hangings
by using his six-shooter.
                         HISTORICAL                      161

   Plunkett dissented. He was emphatic about it.
   "I tell you what," he said, "that fellow, Bat Master-
son, has killed more innocent men in his day than anybody
else in the United States! "
   Whether the statement was immediately challenged or
not, is not recorded. Masterson had good friends in that
group. A little later, one of them made an excuse and left
the room. He knew where Bat was, and he got into a han-
som and ordered the driver to go there, lickety-split. And
he gave a news-hot version o~ what Plunkett had said.
   Hardly half an hour after the statement had been made,
Masterson in person d(amatically appeared at the main
door of the Barroom. Ohe of the men at the table caught
sight of him and jumped up. The others, following his
gaze, turned. Two or three right hands went to hips.
   Bat, after halting long enough to achieve sensational
effect, strode straight across to the group. He stopped at
the side of his detractor's chair.
   "Plunkett," he said, "I hear you have been talking bad
about me." With the words, he suddenly dug his hand
between Colonel Dick's neck and collar, shut his fist, and
made as if to pull the other out of his chair.
   Plunkett was conciliatory.· "Sit down, Hat," he said; "sit
down and have a quiet drink, and talk things over."
   Then a man on his other side jumped ·Up. "Take your
hands off my friend, Dick Plunkett!" he shouted at Mas-
terson, at the same time trying to jerk something from his
hip pocket.
   Meantime, the effect upon the crowd had been panicky.
Immediately the identity of Masterson had begun to be
whispered about. "That's Bat Masterson," men told one
another. "He'll shoot on sight," some added. So before
I6Z         OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

Masterson-had grabbed Plunkett's collar, a movement had
started toward the exit-toward all exits, in fact. Men be-
gan pouring not only into the extension of Peacock Alley,
but into the Grill Room, and the emergency lavatory at
the southeast corner of the Bar, past which safety could be
gained, was choked by men who merely wanted to find a
quick way out, but missed the door.
   Opportunities offered by the assemblage of so many men
who were making easy money in mining, or in "The
Street,'' were too pregnant to be resisted by certain pur-
veyors of luxuries. At least one noted dealer in uncut
precious stones always drifted in to scan those whose
actions or talk indicated they had been lucky in the market,
and he usually did a thriving business because, in those
times, men who had made money on "flyers" were apt to
have their lighter moments. That crafty psychologist de-
rived considerable profit from persuading such that one
way to celebrate their good fortune was to select a costly
trinket for the lady in the uptown flat. And invariably in
the gathering were to be discovered a full half-dozen gen-
tlemen whose specialty in trade was either high-priced art
or antiques. To their activities amid those inspirational
scenes one who used to know most of the local art mer-
chants and many of the imported ones has often dated the
rise of the passion for art-collecting which became so wide-
spread and violent during the early years of the century.
More than once, however, the yearning for the acquisition
of "high art" instilled-or distilled-in that impregnated,
if not perfumed, atmosphere, was subjected to check and
revision by experience and acquired knowledge of the sub-
ject; and more than one nouveau who used to brag about
the "old masters" he had picked up, found excuse later on
                          HISTORICAL

  to subject his art gallery to a process of weeding.
     To dismiss a recollection of a place where much rude,
  ungainly and uproarious story-telling was done, but where,
  too, so much real humor came out under the stimulative
  effect of generously drunk spirit, without calling to mind
  one of its most decorative as well as most intelljgent wits,
  would almost mean leaving the best egg out of this rum
  omelet. Up rises from a table at the farther end of the
 room a tall, slender' man whose gray mustache bears evi-
 dence that the lingering traces· of good liquor may be held
 too precious for desecration by ·a pocket handkerchief.
     "Private John Allen to the bar!"
     And "Private" John Allen never said nay to such an
 invitation.
    The way he used to tell it, Congressman Allen-of
 Tupelo, Mississippi, suh!-had dubbed himself with the
 title by which he was invariably known. After the Civil
 War he. found the South overrun with generals and colo-
nels and majors, so that at encampments of Confederate
veterans, when it seemed that everyhody he met had com-
manded an army, a brigade, a regiment, or at least a bat-
talion, while he himself had never risen above the ranks,
he concluded he must be the only private of the Confed-
erate Army who had survived the conflict. So he chose for
himself the title of "Private," and thereafter gave it dis-
tinction.
    Private Allen showed up at least once a year at the
Waldorf, and his visits seldom continued less than three
weeks. One afternoon, his friend, Colonel E.T. Brown of
Atlanta, arrived at the hotel and, suspecting the whereabouts
of his intimate, sought the door of the Bar. And, sure
enough, at his favorite table, the center of a group of atten-
I 64         OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

tive listeners, sat Private John Allen. On the table was a
bottle of Old Green River whiskey. At Allen's right was a
stout man, red-f~ced and with a tremendous mustache of a
hue that matched. The other waved his hand and shouted,
"Come right over, Colonel Brown!" As the newcomer ap-
proached, Private John arose.      ,
   "Gentlemen," he said, "this is Colonel Brown, of At-
lanta, Georgia. Colonel Brown, suh, I wish you to meet
Majah Soandso. Majah Soandso is the representative, suh,
of that wonderful, that potent, that seductive beverage-
0-1-d Gre-e-n Rivah."
   Colonel Brown sat and the bottle was passed around.
Another was ordered and then another. Finally, Private
John suggested: "Let's all go down to the Hoffman
House."
   A few minutes later, the party lined up at the long bar
counter of that establishment.
   "Gentlemen, will you indicate your preference?" Pri-
vate John's voice invited. Each named his choice in turn.
Finally the white-coated bartender reached the end of
the line.
   "And yours, sir?" he said to Private John.
   "You may give me, suh," came the answer in a full,
round voice that reverberated through the room, "some
of that great liquah that is considered a boon in every well-
Tegulated ·household-0-1-d Gr-e-en Rivah ! "
   The bartender inclined his head to one side. "l beg your
pardon, sir," he said. ''I didn't quite catch that."
   "l said, suh," Private John returned, "some of that
beneficent, luscious, pervasive and persuasive liquah who~e
eloquence has chahmed a continent-0-1-1-d Gr-r-e-e-en
Rivah!"
                          HISTORICAL                      165
    "I am very sorry, sir,'' the polite barman now returned,
  shaking his head. "We haven't such whiskey and I have
  never heard of it. But we have Old Crow, Y.P .M.-"
    "What, sub?" bellowed Private Allen. "Do you mean to
 t~ll me, sub, that you haven't any of that famous, soul-
 inspirin' liquah; the joy of every American father, the
 pride of every American mother, and for which American
 children cry instead of for Pitchah's Castoria-0-1-1-1-d
 G-r-r-r-e-e-n Rivah?"
    "I am sorry, sir,'' said the barman, "but we haven't it.''
    "Well, by Gawd," exclaimed Private Allen, his voice
 this time at its highest·,and most reverberant pitch, "you
 haven't got Old Green Rivah! Well, suh, I just refuse to
 drink in such a low-down place. Come on, fellahs!" And
 he led the way out of the barroom.
    The next afternoon, Colonel Brown saw Private Allen
and the red-mustached major in close communion just out-
side the Barroom entrance. The major slipped away. Pri-
vate John said to Colonel Brown, with a chuckle, "Do you
know, the Majah tells me he slipped into the Hoffman
House Bar, this mornin', and sold 'em seventy-five cases
of Old Green Rivah. Colonel,'' he continued, with a wink,
"how'd you like, suh, for me to send· you down to At-
lanta a case of Old Green Rivah with my compliments?"
VI. GLOSSARIAL



 SOME THINGS MOST PEOPLE DON'T
      KNOW ABOUT LIQUORS


F     OR the benefit of antiquarians and serious students of
       American mores-as well as for the information of
those who like to know what's in a name or two, when ap-
plied to liquor-the author has deemed it expedient to
append a brief Glossary, which may serve to uncork certain
useful and perhaps entertaining particulars concerning spirits
and other things mentioned in the Formulary portion of
this book.
    To begin with, take "Berries." As used in the text, ''Ber-
ries," it should be emphasized, does not mean dollars-
simply small fruit usually growing on vines or diminutive
plants. "Mug,'' as employed, does not signify a face, or
"to photograph," as commonly applied these days; but a
container made of glass, crockery, or stone, with a handle,
and used for dispensing ale, cider, or, infrequently, beer.
A "lemon" is a small yellow fruit; and "lemon peel," of
course, is the rind.
  ~ The word "Egg,'' as frequently used, should be taken in
a literal and primitive sense. In the days when recipes were
written down in the Old Bar Book, the term "Pittsburgh
Steel 1\1glionaire" had not yet been synonymously super-
seded in Manhattanese by "Big Butter and Egg Man,''
and at the Old WaldorfBar "Good Egg" was synchronous
and synonymous with "Fresh Egg." Whatever metaphori-
                             166
                           GLOSSARIAL

   cal or sinister sense either has come later to assume, each
   then meant simply a natural output of a female of the
   chicken species, and in fair condition. A "Nutmeg" was,
   and still is, the aromatic kernel of the fruit of a tree of
   the Myristica family.
     "Cock's Comb" as used, meant literally what it says,
  however incredible to those who think only of a cow or a
  goat when they return to the barnyard for something to
  drink. As an elective concomitant, if not an ingredient, of
  the Chanticleer cocktajl, a <:;ock's Comb was a ruddy, ser-
  rated, distinctive capital dec0.ration peculiar to the mascu-
  line chicken. It was pickled or bottled as a sweetmeat in
  France, often . with ot'her elemental components of de-
 parted roosters, particularly what are known to high-class
 grocers and certain gourmets as "Fftu!ncieres." The Cock's
 Comb and the Financiere are still reputed among the ultra-
 sophisticated to possess virtues akin to those of certain
 simian appropriations recommended by a , distinguished
 Slavic surgeon. Indeed, the manager of one well-known
 mart for rare comestibles and delicacies stoutly maintained
 to the writer that the combination is in great and growing
demand.
    "Ginger ale" is now perhaps even better known than in
pre-prohibition days, so it should be unnecessary to define
it, except so far as to say that "imported?' ginger ale used
to mean that the product had been manufactured in some
other country than the United States. An "orange," of
course, signified about what it does today, though "orange
peel" used to mean a good deal more, as in the compen-
dium there will be found numerous concoctions in which it
was used for flavoring purposes. "Mint," a pungent herb
~ommonly found in kitchen gardens, has long filled a noble
168         OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

office in certain parts of this country-particularly below
Mason and Dixon's line, and most notably, perhaps, in
Kentucky, though in other states great pride is exhibited by
many citizens in the virtues of a compound whose recipe,
they claim, has been handed down in some particular fam-
ily for generations past. In recent years and in New York,
it seems to have become more closely identified with the
chewing gum industry than anything else. It might be em-
phasized that when the Old Waldorf recipes were com-
piled, the word "raspberry" had not become synonymous
with "horse's laugh" or any other anatomical performance
and the expression "give him the raspberry" had not come
into common use. Nor had "strawberries" entered the
 realm of slang. Berries were berries and fruits were fruits.
 It was a simpler age.
    A few processes employed by bar-mixers of the old
 American School, and named here and there, seem to call
 for some clarification.
     For example, to "muddle" meant to mash and stir up
 one or more ingredients, and had no objective reference
 to the person who was getting the drink; to "cup" meant
  either to shape or use as a cup, or to place in the bottom
  of a cup or glass; to "frappe" meant to cool with ice. More
  frequently than not, a bartender averse to the vigorous
  and more than local exercise demanded by plying a
  cocktail-shaker achieved a similar effect by the finger-and-
  wrist method of gently stirring a few lumps of ice with a
  spoon, but, as already intimated, "stirring'' was often pre-
  scribed in the formula.
     Witfi' this brief introduction, one passes on to the Glos-
  sary proper. The definitions are confined to terms used in
  the compendium. The term "voltage," given where it is
                         GLOSSARIAL

known, signifies "horse-power,'' "kick,'' or "alcoholic con-
tent,'' and is used as being more in accord with this age of
electricity.

                     DEFINITIONS
ABSINTHE-Usually a green, bitter, aromatic liquor,
  impregnated with wormwood, though there was also a
  white variety manufactured in France. Deriv., Latin, ab-
  sinthium, "wormwood." ,L ong a resort for parodists in
  such lines as "Absinthe makes the heart grow fonder."
  Taken "neat" and · often, was guaranteed to produce
  visions of snakes, et~. Voltage, 58.93.
ANISETTE-A liquor made in France by distillation
  from anise seed. Voltage, 42.
APPLEJACK-Often used synonymously with apple
 brandy or apple whiskey and supposed to be a distilla-
 tion. New Jersey continued producing tae one-or the
 three-right through prohibition.
AROMATIC SPIRITS OF AMMONIA.-A fragrant
 distillation from a colorless, pungent, suffocating gas
  (NH 3 ) obtained from nitrogenous- organic bodies, such
 as coal, bones, blood, etc.
BENEDICTINE-A cordial or liqueur, distilled for cen-
 turies at Fecamp, in France, by the Benedictine monks.
 Its composition was kept secret and some persons be-
 lieved its distillation was accompanied by religious rites.
 However, after the French Revolution, discovery was
 made that it could be produced by the laity and by
 strictly secular methods. Its components have been kept
 a trade secret, but it was believed to contain the volatile
 constituents of cardamom seeds, arnica flowers, angelica
I 70        OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

   root, lemon peel, thyme, nutmegs, cassia, hyssop, pep-
   permint, ·and cloves. Imitation of Benedictine is not so
   much confined to prohibition history as patrons of boot-
  leggers may have become convinced. As a matter of fact,
  such has been going on in France and elsewhere for gen-
  erations, the average customer who did not know being
  satisfied if the bottle was queer and squat and bore the
  initials "D.O.M." Voltage, 52.
BITTERS-Beverages containing alcohol, together with a
  component for cathartic effect. Best known varieties:
  Angostura, made from the bark of a South American
  tree; Calisaya, synonymous with cinchona or quinine,
  also of South American origin; Orange; Boonekamp,
  made in Germany; Baker's, Amer Picon (which a ste-
  nographer rendered for me "American Pecan,'' but which
  is really a French proprietary proposition); Hostetter's,
  West Indies, Pepsin, Peychaud (formerly made in New
  Orleans); Fernet Branca, etc. So named from the usual
  bitter taste.
BRANDY-(Sometimes called "cognac," from a town in
  France noted for its manufacture.) Alcoholic liquor dis-
  tilled from wine. Deriv., Dutch, brandewijn, meaning
  "burnt wine." Was also made from the juice of apri-
  cots, peaches, apples or other fruit by distillation, and
  called liqueur. Cognac was often called for by the
, name of. its maker, though in other days it was often
  referred to by the symbol printed on its label, "* * *"
  or"*****,'' as indulgers frequently proved unable
  to r~ad when ready for an encore. Voltage, 53.4.
CHARTREUSE-A distillation with brandy of certain
  rare herbs, used as a cordial or liqueur. The name was
  derived from the fact that Chartreuse, like Benedictine,
                         GLOSSARIAL

    owed its invention to early French monks, who knew
    about what they wanted and got it. These monks were
    of the Carthusian Order, and the liqueur was made ~nly
    at their monastery in the Grande Chartreuse, in the
    French Alps. The formula for its preparation was said
   to be known only to the Father Superior of the Order.
   When the monks were expelled from France, in 1903,
   they spirited the secret of its preparation to Tarragona,
   in Spain, whehce comes an herb much esteemed by gour-
   mets in the treatment ,of vinegar. Rival manufactories
   were then set up in France, but their product was never
   so good as the o.ijginal brand. Some thirty years or so
   before their expu1sion, the Carthiisian monks had suf-
   fered a big loss in the destruction of their brandy ware-
  houses, wherein was stored what was said to be the
  largest stock of old Napoleon brandy in existence. Even
  before prohibition came, as much as twenty dollars a
  bottle was paid in New York for Chartt;euse dated 1869
  or before. While the monks have kept their formula a
  secret, analysts have named among the ingredients of
  Chartreuse: balm leaves, orange peel, dried hyssop tops,
  peppermint, wormwood, angelica seed and root, cinna-
  mon, mace, cloves, Tonka beans, ca:lamus aromaticus and
  cardamom. Some of the flavor, if not virtues of the prod-
  uct, however, wa~ ascribed to certain herbs which were
 said to grow only in the neighborhood of the Grande
 Chartreuse. There were three varieties of Chartreuse-
 yellow, green, and white. Voltage, 43.
COINTREAU-A liqueur made in France, but not well
 known in the United States before prohibition.
    '
CREME      DE CACAO-An extract of cocoa, made in
 France. Used as a cordial or liqueur.
172         OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK
  '
CREME DE CASSIS-A liqueur made in France of
 black currants, whose voltage still causes headaches to
 sq_me who recall its potency.
CREME DE MENTHE-A distillation of mint, or of
 brandy flavored with mint. Usually green in color,
 though there is also a white variety. By those who
 could not pronounce its name correctly, it was often
 called "green mint,'' or "white mint," menthe being the
 French word for "mint." It is usually made in France.
 V~ltage, 48.
CREME YVETTE-An extract of violets, used for fla-
 voring purposes; also drunk as a cordial or liqueur. Its
 perfume often gave it preference over the common or
 garden refuge of the drinking dissembler-a clove or
 peppermint lozenge-before the commercial discovery
 of halitosis. Made in New York.
CURACAO-Often mispronounced "Curacoa,'' especially
 by Englishmen. A liquor made by distilling spirits with
 orange peel and certain spices. Manufactured originally
 in Holland. Name derived from that of a Dutch island
 off the north coast of South America. Voltage, 55.
DUBONNET-A proprietary French bitters or tonic, one
 of whose ingredients is said to be quinine.
GIN-Originally a drink distilled from malt or other
 grain and afterwards rectified with and flavored with
 junipe~ berries. Manufactured in Holland, under the
  name of Hollands, Schiedam, and Schnapps. For the
  effect of Schnapps, see Washington Irving's tale of that
  sterling New Yorker of pre-war times, Rip Van Winkle.
  Also manufactured in England' under various names,
  notably: Gordon, Booth's, Holloway's, Old Tom, Nich-
  olson, Plymouth, House of Lords, etc. Among the
                         GLOSSARIAL                       173
   lower classes of London, "gin" is alcohol, flavored with
   oil of turpentine and common salt. The term is often
   used generically for ''bad liquor." In some parts of the
   Cotton Belt, "gin" signifies a beverage whose effects are
   momentarily synonymous with those produced by the
   saws of a cotton gin-from which it is not derived. The
  actual derivation is from the Dutch jenever, itself com-
   ing from the old French word jenevre, meaning juni-
  per. Gin was sometimes called "Ceneva," or "Geneva
  Water,'' and ascribed.to Swiss invention. Voltage, 54.3.
SLOE GIN-Not to be·confused with the real gin, and it
  should be noted that as compared with real gin, its ef-
  fects are describbd by its first name, differently spelled.
  Sloe Gin is a sort of cordial made by distillation from the
  small, plum-like astringent fruit of the Blackthorn, or a
  distillation flavored with the same.
GRAND MARNIER-A cordial, or liqueur, made in
  France from oranges.
GRENADINE-A red syrup or cordial, said to be made
  from pomegranates; manufactured in France.
KIRSCH or KIRSCHWASSER-A liquor distilled from
  European wild cherries, and made in Germany and
  2ther central European countries.
KUMMEL or KIMMEL-A liquor made generally
  from highly rectified alcohol, flavored with cumin (a
 plant of the parsley family) and caraway seeds. Before
 the War it was manufactured chiefly at Riga, then in
 Russia. Voltage, 33.9.
MARASCHINO (pronounced "maraskeeno")-A cordial
 distilled from fermented cherries and flavored with
 bruised pits. Deriv., Italian, marasquino.
OJEN-A cordial formerly made in New Orleans, La.,
174         OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

  and flavored with absinthe.
ORGEAT.:.__A syrup made in France from sugar, orange
  flower water and almonds. Deriv., French, from Latin,
  hordeum, barley.
PARF.AIT D'AMOUR-A red cordial whose composi-
  tion was a proprietary secret, but whose name often
  assured those who had a slight acquaintance with French
  that it was a sort of love potion.
RUM-Generally, the name of any alcoholic liquor. Used
  as an adjective, colloquial English for "queer" or "pe-
  culiar." Specifically, an alcoholic liquor distilled from
  fermented molasses, or. cane juice. Varieties usually
  named from country of origin-Jamaica, Swedish, St.
  Croix (West Indies), Cuban-better known as Bacardi
  or Santiago-and Japanese (usually called Sake and dis-
  tilled from fermented rice). Deriv., abbreviation of
  "rumbullion" or "rumbooze." The latter term is com-
  posed of the gypsy word rom or rum, meaning "good,"
  and "booze," a corruption of the Dutch bouse, meaning
  to "guzzle," but now used as a good English word with
  a sinister meaning. The manufacture of rum was at one
  time an important New England industry, antedating
  that of cotton cloth. Voltage, 53.7. See "Jamaican Jolli-
  fiers."
SHERRY-Originally meant the white wine of Jerez,
  Spain,J rom wh9~e name it was derived. Jerez was pro-
  nounced "Hareth," or "Berreth." The English corrup-
   tion may have been.due to excessive sibilance manifested
  by the original Britisher who drank a bottle and de-
   manded more: Voltage, I 9.
SODA, SIPHON, PLAIN SODA, CARBONIC, SELT-
   ZER, VICHY-Water charged with gas and dis-
                         GLOSSAR.IAL                    175
  charged into a glass by pressing a lever controlling the
  metal vent of a siphon. CLUB SODA, aerated water in
  a small bottle. LEMON SODA, the same with a flavor
  of synthetic lemon. DELATOUR SODA, a brand of a
  particular manufacturer. The word VICHY was a mis-
  nomer, appropriated from that of the famous water bot-
  tled at Vichy, France, by the French Government.
SWEDISH PUNSCH-A beverage manufactured in
  Sweden, and having somewhat of the taste and proper-
  ties of Rum. Voltage, 26.3.
VERMOUTH-A liquor made from white wine, fla-
  vored with aromatic herbs. Formerly, of the two varie-
  ties, the Italian, or sweet, 'was made in Italy, and the
  French, or sec (dry), was manufactured in France. A sec
  Vermouth is also made in Italy. Deriv., German, wer-
  1'JUl,th, meaning "wormwood." In the country of its
  origin, Vermouth is often drunk "neat," that is to say,
  unmixed with water or more potent liquids. Voltage,
  about 17.
VIN MARIANI-A wine made in France from cocoa,
 and formerly very much advertised as a tonic.
WHISKEY-Again less comprehensive in definition than
 of late years, whiskey is an alcoholic liquor obtained by
 the distillation of a fermented starchy compound, usu-
 ally a grain. Deriv., Gaelic, uisgebeatha, "water of life."
 It used to be called also etltU de vie or aqua vitae, mean-
 ing the same as the Gaelic term. The Swedes appropri-
 ated the name for "Aquavit," now one of their national
 drinks. Varieties: rye whiskey, made from that product;
 corn whiskey, called "Bourbon" if manufactured in Ken-
 tucky, and blended with rye, but turned out as ''White
 Mule," "Moonshine" and under other names in illicit
176         OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK

 distilleries throughout the South; "Scotch," named for
 the country of its origin and popularly supposed to be
 made of oatmeal, the national dish, turned into spirits
 by the aid of peat fires, but more probably of barley or
 other grain, and "Irish," made in Ireland.
WINE-The juice of grapes, fermented by nature, in
 course of time. Varieties named in the compendium in-
 clude Claret, the ordinary red wine of certain districts in
 France (voltage, 13.3); Burgundy, the heavy red wine
 of Bourgogne, France (voltage, 13.6); Madeira, the
 wine of the Portuguese Island of that name; Port, a
 wine whose name came from the Portuguese city of
  Oporto, whence it was exported; Rhine, meaning a wine
  made of grapes grown in the Rhine valley; Beaune,
  wines both red and white, made in the vicinity of
  Beaune, France, and about the same voltage as Bur-
  gundy; Bordeaux, made of grapes grown in the terri-
  tory contiguous to the city of Bordeaux, France (voltage,
  l 1.5); Champagne, an effervescent wine made before
  the war in the Marne region of France, particularly at
  Rheims (voltage, l 2.2).
BAR GLASSES-Among the glasses mentioned as proper
  for the service of the fancy potations, the name "star"
  appears frequently. According to surviving authorities
  on bar-containers of the period, a "star" was synonymous
  with a. SOVR gl~s.
      The SOUR glass, so called because it was used for
   "sours" of various kinds, held from five and a half to
   six ounces. The LEMONADE was originally a thick goblet,
   but in time it 'became a thin, straight-sided glass, holding
   from six to eight ounces. The latter was originally the
   same as a FIZZ or a HIGH-BALL glass. The COLLINS
                       GLOSSARIAL                     177
 started out by being an eight-ounce glass, but a demand
 for a longer drink led to the adoption of a twelve- or
 even a sixteen-ounce glass-one that, besides the gin and
 the ice, would hold a "split" of soda. The CHAMPAGNE
 was usually a wide-bowled, thin-stemmed goblet; often,
 however, a thin four-ounce tumbler, was also used, the
 same being also called an APOLLINARIS glass. A SHERRY
.glass was a small glass with a sharp, conical bowl, hold-
 ing from three-quarters of an ounce to about an ounce
 and a third. A PONY was identical with a small liqueur      I   I
 glass, and held a scant ounce. A· PoussE CAFE glass was
 an elongated pony, holdin? abOut an ounce and a half.
 A WHISKEY was a thin, low, straight-sided vessel hold-
 ing about four ounces. The CLARET, a thin goblet, held
 from three and a half to four ounces.
    The J IGGER was a conical metal container, holding
 about two ounces. In many establishments its use was
 abandoned in favor of the barman's eye. He was sup-
 posed to be able to gauge a jiggerful when pouring
 from a bottle in composing mixed drinks. In first class
 establishments, the customer was usually permitted to
 measure his own whiskey when he took it "neat,'' or in a
 high-ball.
                      OTHER BOOKS
                                  by
        ALBERT STEVENS CROCKETT

                    PEACOCKS ON PARADE
 The story of America's Age of Strut, the Gorgeous Period between
 the World's Fair and the War, and of the Grand, Gaudy and Gro-
 tesque Struttera themaelvea, moat of them known personally to the
 author here and in Europe. Praise d by reviewers from Coaat to
 Coast. 3 14 pp.; illustrated with rare p ictures.




              WHEN JAMES GORDON BENNET!'
                WAS CAIJPH OF :BAGDAD
Pronounced by critics here and abroad, a "Great Fact Romance of
Jourriaiism." The story of a boy's aspirations to become a news-
paper man and how these were fulfilled ; and his adventures here
and abroad while working directly under the eccentric proprietor
of the old New York Herald. 4 14 pp. ; illustrated.




                  REVELATIONS OF LOUISE
A   Narrative of a Strange Psychical Adventure that befell the
author and his family . 23 4 pp.; with illustrations'.




                 OLD WALDORF BAR DAYS
The story of a unique American "Institution," and of the notable,
notorious and nondescript figures that patronized it. Also giving
th e origin of many drinks. Beautiful e xample of printing and bind-
ing. Out of Print. A few copies· remaining wiU be sold to collectors.
..
   THE OLD WALDORF-ASTORIA BAR BOOK
SIDNEY WILLIAMS, in the PIDLADELPIDA INQUIRER: "Of
making bar books there is no end, and the best conceivable is
'The Old Waldorf-Astoria Bar Book.' Here we have recipes for
more than 500 cocktails and appetizers proved, and in many cases
invented at the big brass rail of the original Waldorf ••• He has
added to this imposing list of formnlas a number of recipes for
standard cocktails and mixed drinks, mostly gathered outside of
the United States. His unrivaled manual is agreeably supplemented
by chapters written in the spirit of a historian and a connoisseur
.•• A well-made hook and encyclopedic in its field."
LAWTON MACKALL, in the November, 1935, ESQUIRE: "Mixers'
guides have been compiled, with the aid of good bartenders, by
all the leading gin, whiskey, rum, vermouth, aperitif, and liquor
firms. The most complete manual ever gotten together-a tome
too big for your pocket and costing full bookstore price, but worth
it-is 'The Old Waldorf Bar Book.'"
GEORGE CURRIE, in BROOKLYN EAGLE: "Seasonable and wi!!e
 .•• Crockett's book is keen for setting things right•••• Something
more than merely a sort of cook book for the tippler in the home.
It is one man's history of noble drinking and offers 500 noble
experiments to the adventurous. It offers them with a cheerfnl
 'Here's How' and a sage admonition concerning the dynamic
 qualities of each with a view to aiding in the keeping of one's
 head within reason. Nostalgically it breathes the spirit of a time
 when a drunk was a souse and not the life of the party.''
 HARTFORD COURANT: "While primarily, a manual of depend-
 able recipes for a large variety of mixed drinks, its chief interest
 for a mass of readers will lie in the reminiscent notes and
 anecdotes concerning the 'old days.'"
 SATURDAY REVIEW OF LITERATURE: "Ranges as far as Cuban
 concoctions and Jamaican jollifiers. Some of the mixed drinks
 it records constitute a marvelous medley.''
G. SELMAR FOUGNER, NEW YORK SUN'S authority on drinks:
"Highly authoritative." (Frequently quoted by Mr. Fougner.)
PRINTER'S INK: "Among the more authentic repeal literature
      Stands out above so many of the cocktail recipe books."
BOSTON TRANSCRIPT: "A hook the younger generation needs
. . . It telis all fledgling imbibers just what the famous old drinks
really are.''
PITTSBURG SUN TELEGRAPH: "Sparkling and effervescing con-
tribution to post-prohibition literature."
NEW YORK TIMES: "A first rate example.''
CAMDEN, N. J. COURIER: "Takes top rank."
DOUGLAS GILBERT in the WORLD TELEGRAM: "Delightful
compendi0D1.''
      Price $2.00; $2.15 by Express. Orders not accompanied
      by cash or equivalent, filled only C. O. D.

                      A. S. CROCKETT
781 Fifth Avenue                                  New York, N. Y.
