I
                    IT*-,I?,.




                                   M'* .

                    >:>&./ :l, .




 't-
IM-'*




        it   '
             iLN.
EXCLUSIVE
COCKTAILS
 FROM    THE RECIPES OF
   USHER'S HOTEL




        SYDNEY, 1936
                          1

USHER'S   IS   SYDNEY'S

MOST   DISTINCTIVE

AND    EXCLUSIVE

       HOTEL




                          i




                          i
                 PREFACE

SOME time ago we published a small booklet of
    sixty-four pages, in which we gave over fifty of
    the exclusive cocktail recipes which were respons
ible for building the reputation that Usher's enjoys
for its distinctive Cocktails dispensed on the First
Floor Lounge.

Although some thousands of these booklets were
printed, the demand for them from every State in
Australia and from England, America and other over
sea countries, was so great that not a single copy is
available to-day. Encouraged by this success, we.«
have now produced this present booklet in which
we are releasing the recipes of eleven of our most
exclusive cocktails that have won great popularity over
the last few months.

Usher's trust that you will like these latest eleven
creations — each recipe being"different" to the ones
that are usually known. These cocktails are quite
distinctive, and are really delightful and refreshing.

We wish to acknowledge the courtesy of Mr. J. C.
Bancks, the creator of "Ginger Meggs," who illus
trates our booklet.
                            H. H. Welman,
                                    General Manager.
Usher's Hotel,
  Sydney.
    HINTS ON                      MIXING
                COCKTAILS

IN making a Cocktail, the most essential factor is
   to observe the correct proportions as set out in
   these recipes. All ingredients should be poured
into a cocktail shaker, which should be shaken vigor
ously — not merely rocked. The object is to wake
the mixture up — not to send it to sleep. Crushed
ice should be added in the shaker when making any
Cocktail.

To obtain the greatest enjoyment from a Cocktail,
it should be partaken immediately it is poured from
the shaker. "Drink it while it is still laughing at you,"
is the maxim of one of England's greatest cocktail
connoisseurs.

Where white of egg is used in any recipe, the mixture
should be shaken longer than usual. About five
minutes is generally required to make the white of
egg properly beaten. In the case of cream Cocktails,
it is advisable to add the cream last when pouring
the ingredients into the shaker. A dash of Angostura
bitters may be added to any Cocktail. This improves
the flavour and accentuates the pleasing effect of the
different ingredients.

The proportions given in the recipes are those that
should give a pleasing Cocktail, suitable for the average
taste. These proportions may be varied if it is desired
to alter the flavour, but, generally speaking, in no
case should greater quantities of any Liqueur be used
than those stated.
 ATMOSPHERIC                 PRESENTATI,ON
              OF      COCKTAILS

SHOULD you desire to surprise your guests when
    entertaining them at your next Cocktail Party,
    may we suggest an idea which has proved success
ful with clients for whom we have had the pleasure
of arranging Cocktail Parties. For instance, should
you desire to serve a "White Lady" Cocktail, to
cover the Cocktail shaker with the Crinoline skirt of an
attractively dressed doll creates an atmosphere for
the title of the cocktail.

A cocktail shaker, concealed in a crepe-paper pink
rose automatically suggests the title for this cocktail,
"Pink Rose."

A very humorous atmosphere for a blood-hound
cocktail can be obtained by the use of a grotesque
toy dog.

These suggestions will indicate how you can effectively
secure an atmospheric presentation of Cocktails that
will delight and intrigue your guests. The number
of different forms of presentation are infinite, because
you can draw on your imagination indefinitely.
BLOOD AND SAND



                              "   lib




                        11




Take two-sixths of a measure of Usher's Rum
one-sixth of a measure of Red Curaco and one-
sixth of a measure of Grenadine. Add a good
dash of Cloves and a dash of Orange Bitters.
To this add an equal quantity of milk. Ice and
shake well.

Serve in a long-stemmed glass, crusted with
sugar. Serve with a piece of preserved fruit.
            BLUE              HEAVEN




.«ry




       To two-sixths of a measure of Usher's Gin add
       one-sixth of a measure of Cointreau, one-sixth
       of a measure of Absinthe, and two-sixths of a
       measure of lemon juice, and the white of a fresh
       egg for each two persons.
       Ice and shake well and serve with a Maraschino
       Cherry on two small drinking straws in a cham
       pagne glass.

       The particularly fascinating feature of this cock
       tail is its appearance. An azure blue is obtained
       by carefully adding, before shaking, a few drops
       of a blue colouring. This ingredient is used
       just as one would use yokine when cooking.
FLYING                 COLOURS




                                                   i


To four-eighths of a measure of orange juice,
add one-eighth of a measure of Apricot Brandy,
one-eighth of a measure of Cointreau, one-eighth
of a measure of Usher's Gin, one-eighth of a
measure of French Vermouth and the white of
a fresh egg to each two persons.
Ice and shake well.
Serve in a champagne glass sprinkling hundreds
and thousands on top of the mixture.
              KOALA




To one-sixth of a measure of Brandy, add-two-
sixths of a measure of Apricot Brandy, two-
sixths of a measure of Orange juice, and one-
sixth of a measure of French Vermouth.

Ice and shake well.

Serve a small slice of orange on the edge of
the glass.
      KOOKABURRA




                                  II



Take two-sixths of a measure of Usher's Gin,
one-sixth of a measure of Parfait Amour and add
three-sixths of a measure of Passion-fruit syrup.
Ice and shake well.
Serve in a glass crusted with purple sugar. A
piece of Preserved Ginger should be floated on
top of the cocktail. The unusual purple colour
of this cocktail is obtained by using Bols Parfait
Amour.
      LAZY               DAISY




Take one-third of a measure of Usher's Gin,
and add one-third of a measure of Creme de
Banana, and one-third of a measure of cream,
and a few drops of bright yellow colouring.
Ice, shake well, and serve in a glass crusted with
yellow sugar.
A thin slice of banana should be floated on top
of the cocktail.
                                                    1
     MAGIC                 NOTES

                        _ ^




Take two-eighths of a measure of Usher s Gin,
one-eighth of a measure of Italian Vermouth,one-
eighth of a measure of Apricot Brandy, one-eighth
of a measure of Kummel,one-eighth of a measure
of Orange Curacao, and to this mixture add two-
eighths of a measure of Grenadine and the
white of a fresh egg for each two persons.
Ice and shake well for at least five minutes.
Serve in champagne glass crusted with pink
sugar. A Maraschino cherry should be placed in
the glass on two small drinking straws.
        moon                 mist




With three-sixths of a measure of Usher's Gin
use one-sixth of a measure of Maraschino, and
two-sixths of a measure of grape juice.
Ice and shake well.
With this cocktail serve a sugared grape.
The popularity this cocktail enjoys, we attribute
entirely to the use of the grape juice, which is
almost unique in cocktail recipes.
The glass should have a "misty" appearance
which is obtained by crusting with a powdered
white sugar.
           NEW              LIFE




                   %




Take two-sixths of a measure of a good Amon
tillado Sherry, one-sixth of a measure of Italian
Vermouth, two-sixths of a measure of grenadine
and one-sixth of a measure of absinthe.
Ice and shake these ingredients well in a shaker,
serving with an olive.
This cocktail has become exceedingly popular
because of the ever increasing popularity of
sherry, which, until recently, was only appreciated
by connoisseurs.
           WHOOPEE




oo o




                                4




With three-sixths of a measure of Usher's Gin
use two-sixths of a measure of cream, and one-
sixth of a measure of Creme-de Menthe.
Ice and shake well, but not for too long.
  Serve with a Maraschino Cherry.


                                                 .,1
    WIDOW'S                    KISS




Take two-sixths of a measure of Usher's Rum>
two-sixths of a measure of French Vermouth,one-
sixth of a measure of Cointreau, and to this mix
ture add one-sixth of a measure of lemon juice.
Ice and shake well.
Serve in glass crusted with coloured sugar.
Float a small cube of Preserved Pineapple on
top of the cocktail.
    /■




t
            ■




        ■

t




    ■
