         . V.




     /   "/     ♦'/•




New Orleans
DRINKS
and how to
 mix "em.
 PRICE
  ,50
BY MAIL
  .60
                        HARMANSON'S PubHcationa

                                 AUDUBON
             An Intimate Life of The American Woodsman
                            by Stanley Clisby Arthur
          Author of Old New Orleans, The Birds of Louisiana, The Story of
               The Battle of New Orleans, Old Families of Louisiana, Story
               of The West Florida Rebellion, The Fur Animals of Louisi
               ana, Etc., Etc.
          At Last! The book all bird lovers have been waiting
               for!
          For the first time the "real" Audubon has been
              placed between the covers of a book.
          The finest and greatest biography of the talented
              genius who made "The Birds of America" live
              again on his drawing papers. The uncensored
              story of a bird man by a bird man.
                             Over 75 Illustrations
               In two formats. Limited and signed $10.00.
               Regular edition, blue and gold cloth $5.00.


                      OLD NEW ORLEANS
                            by Stanley Clisby Arthur
          Author of Audubon, An Intimate Life of The American Woods
               man, Etc.
          The first authentic history of the Crescent City's
              famed French Quarter, its ancient and historical
              Creole buildings. Written for those who want
              to wander along the narrow streets of New Or
               leans' famous "Vieux Carre"—who want to
               know something authentic about these priceless
               relics of a romantic past.
          Profusely illustrated by pictures that successfully
              capture the spirit of quaint streets—the beauty
               of old courtyards—the delicate traceries of old
               iron lace on old balconies.
                      Bound in atti'active red cloth $2.50.
               Anniversary edition, artcraft binding $5.00.


             HARMANSON, Publisher and Bookseller
             333 Royal Street             New Orleans, Louisiana
   — '^JvSVnXwvl,




  Famous New Orleans Drinks
  And How to Mix'em




(V^:)^
      t-v^          ^^p£e.-rC?!^ ^-
 7^;;;^                   ^
                                                                     mF-^y




                     CHRISTENING FONT OF THE COCKTAIL

                 The old-fashioned double-end egg-cup which served the
                 first brandy-cocktails in old New Orleans. A Coquetier
                 to the Creoles but a "cocktail" to the Americans.




•ite

"'"liiiiiiiiiii' [ii liiittMi
iiiis
        ItJ
                     Copyright 1937 by
                STANLEY CIllSBY ARTHUR
      All rights reserved ... no part of this book may
      be reprinted In any form without permission In
      writing from the copyright, owner.




            First Printing November 29, 1937
            Second Printing December 8, 1937
             Third Printing August 15, 1938

'v.




      Printed in the United States of America by the
              ROGERS PRINTING COMPANY
                 New Orleans, Louisiana
           CONTENTS

                         •



Aperitif                         ^    7

The Birth of the Cocktail    :        9


Whiskey Drinks                       15

Juleps                               27

Absinthe Drinks                      34


Gin Drinks                           42

Rum Drinks                           59

Pousse Caf^s                         69


Brandy Drinks                        72

Caf£ BrOlot                          74

Toddies, Slings, and Flips           78

Flips                                79


Slings                               80


Swizzle                              82


Punches                              84
                      "."•"7 '




Wassail Bowl

Eggnogs                          89


White Ribbon Punch_              92


The Contradiction                94


Index                            95
                      Aperitif

   Hail New Orleans that for more than a century has
been the home of civilized drinking. From the time of
its settlement by the French, through the dominaton
of the Spanish, and occupation by the Americans after
the Louisiana Purchase, the flowing bowl and the adept
mixing of what went in it has constituted as high an
art in this Creole city as the incomparable cooking for
which it is famed.

   The quality of mixed drinks as served in New Or
leans has always appealed to the sophisticated taste, but
the drinks and their histories are forever linked with the
past of this pleasure-loving city out of which has come
so much that is beautiful and gay, and so much that is
worth preserving.

  It was here that your pious Creole lady guilelessly
brewed muscadine wine and blackberry cordial and peach
brandy chocked with authority. It was here that your
gentlemen of the old school, more or less pleasantly
corned in season and out, made a cult of preparing a
drink and a ritual of downing it. It was here that your
most modern of American beverages, the cocktail, first
came into being and was given its jaunty name.
  With a desire to acquaint the world—or that part of
the world that may be interested—with the art of mixing
a drink as it is done in New Orleans, the author of this
book has cajoled from old and new experts the recipes
handed down through succeeding generations and pre
sents them herein for your delectation with a smile and a
"SantS!"
                                                    Seven
            Why We Clink Glasses
                  (A Toast for Toasters)

        When friends tvith other friends contrive
        To ma\e their glasses clin\,
        Then not one sense of all the five
        Is absent from a drinl{.

        For touch and taste and smelland sight
        Evolve in pleasant round,
        And tvhen the flotving cups unite
        We thrill to sense of sound.

        Folly to loo\ on tvine? Oh, fie
        On ivhat teetotallers thinks . . .
        There're altvays five good reasons tvhy
        Good fellotvs likj; to drin\.

                                           E. B. A.




Eight
           The Birth of the Cocktail

  The most popular alcoholic beverage in the world to
day is that high-powered mixture known as the Cocktail.
  For a century and beyond this stimulating drink has
served to elevate dejected spirits. Born, nurtured, and
christened on this side of the Atlantic, it has overflowed
its original boundaries, especially since the World War,
and today even staid British taste, long wedded to his
toric brandy and soda, is beginning to find satisfaction
—and something else—in the Yankee mixed drink.
  Why is a cocktail called a cocktail.? Why should the
rear adornment of a chanticleer be identified with so
robust a libation?

  The origin of the cocktail and its singular naming
have long been veiled in mystery. One legend sets forth
that the French-speaking people of Old New Orleans
had a word for a favorite drink, and that word event
ually was corrupted into "cocktail." Other and more
fanciful legends have found circulation from time to
time but here are the facts concerning the birth of the
cocktail and how it received its inapposite name.
  In the year 1793, at the time of the uprising of the
blacks on the portion of the island of San Domingo then
belonging to France, wealthy white plantation owners
were forced to flee that favored spot in the sun-lit Carib
bean. With them went their precious belongings and
heirlooms. Some of the expelled Dominguois who
flocked to what was then Spanish Louisiana brought
gold to New Orleans. Others brought slaves along with
their household goods. Some brought nothing but the
clothes they wore upon their backs. One refugee suc-
                                                      Nine
ceeded in salvaging, among other scanty possessions, a
recipe for the compounding of a liquid tonic, called
bitters, a recipe that had been a secret family formula
for years.
  This particular young Creole refugee was of a distin
guished French family and had been educated as an
apothecary. His name was Antoine Amedee Peychaud.
In the turmoil of the insurrection and the hurried exodus
from San Domingo, Amedee and his young sister, Last-
henie, became separated. It was not until years later
when he had established himself in New Orleans, that
Ae sister was located in Paris and Peychaud had her
join him in his new home where subsequently she mar
ried into the well-known Maurin family.
   A. A. Peychaud's bid for fame and popularity in the
city of his adoption was founded not so much upon the
quality or profusion of the drugs he dispensed over the
counter of his shop (located in a building still standing
at 437 Royal street) as upon his bitters, a tonic and
stomachic compounded according to his secret family
formula. These bitters, good for what ailed one irre
spective of malady, gave an added zest to the potions of
cognac brandy he served friends and others who came
into his pharmacy—especially those in need of a little
brandy, as well as bitters, for their stomach's sake.
  The fame of Peychaud's highly flavored dram of
brandy spread rapidly. Consequently the bitters found
a ready market in the numerous coffee houses (as liquid
dispensing establishments were then called) that stood
cheek by jowl in almost every street in old New Or
leans. Cognac had long been a popular drink among
the city's experienced bibbers, but presently customers
began demanding their French brandy spiked with a
Ten
dash or so of the marvelous bitters compounded by M.
Peychaud.
  In his own place of business Peychaud had a imique
way of serving his spiced drink of brandy. He poured
portions into what we now call an "egg-cup"—the old-
fashioned double-end egg-cup. This particular piece of
crockery, known to the French-speaking population as
a coquetier (pronounced ko-k-tay), was, in all proba
bility, forerunner of the present jigger—the name given
the double-end metal contraption holding a jigger
ounces) in the big end, and a pony (1 ounce) in the
little end, which we now use to measure portions for
mixed drinks.
   It is not surprising that those whose French pronuncia
tion was imperfect were soon calling the spiced drink
they quaffed from the big end of the crockery cup a
"cock-tay." Possibly through sampling too many of M.
Peychaud's spiced brandies, the thickened tongues of
the imbibers slurred the word into "cocktail."
  Presently all New Orleans was drinking brandy-cock
tails, quite dissimilar indeed from the usual brandy-tod
dies heretofore served exclusively in most of the coffee
houses of old New Orleans. The bitters made the
difference.
  In such fashion did Peychaud's original San Domingo
bitters give an otherwise simple brandy-toddy new life
and zest. In such fashion did the inconspicuous little
crockery coquetier or egg-cup become the christening
font of the cocktail.
  Many have been the yarns setting forth the correct
etymology of the word "cocktail." Some of these legends
are picturesque, some old, some modern, many fantas
tic, and most of them far-fetched and meaningless.
                                                     Eleven
  The word was not accepted by lexicographers until
about the beginning of the present century, each pupdit
advancing a different version as to its origin. Dr. Frank
H. Vizetelly, noted editor of the Standard Dictionary
and authority on words, writes me;
   The cocktail goes back at least to the beginning of
the 19th century, and may date back to the American
Revolution. It is alleged by one writer to have been a
concoction prepared by the widow of a Revolutionary
soldier as far back at 1779. He offers no proof of the
statement, but a publication. The Balance, for May 13,
1806, describes the cocktail ofthat period as 'a stimulating
liquor composed of spirits of any kind, sugar, water, and
bitters. It is vulgarly called hitter sling, and is supposed
to be an excellent electioneering potion.'
  "Washington Irving in Knickerbocker (1809), page
241, said of the cocktail- 'They (Dutch-Americans) lay
claim to be the first inventors of the recondite beverages,
cock'tail, stone-fence, and sherry-cobbler.' Hawthorne re
ferred to cocktails in The Blithedale Romance (1852),
as did Thackeray in his The Newcomes (1854), but
neither of these authors shed any light upon the origin
of the term.

   The New England Dictionary on Historical Princi
ples says that the origin of the word cocktail is lost. In
this connection one writer refers to the older term cock
tail, meaning a horse whose tail, being docked, sticks
up like the tail of a cock. He adds: 'Since drinkers
of cocktails believe them to be exhilarating, the recently
popular song "Horsy, keep your tail up," may perhaps
hint at a possible connection between the two senses of
"cocktail".'
T welve
   "Bartlett in his Dictionary of Americanisms gives the
 following: 'Cocktail. A stimulating beverage, made of
 brandy, gin, or other liquor, mixed with bitters, sugar
 and a very little water. A friend thinks this term was
 suggested by the shape which the froth, as a glass of
 porter, assumes when it flows over the sides of a tumbler
 containing the liquid effervescing.' He quotes the fol
 lowing from the New Yor\ Tribune of May 8, 1862: 'A
 bowie-knife and a foaming cocktail.' In Yorkshire dia
 lect, cocktail describes beer that is fresh and foaming.
   "Brewer in A Dictionary of Phrase-and Fable, follow
 ing the definition of cocktail, adds the note: 'The origin
of the term is unknown: the story given in the New
York World (1891) to the effect that it is an Aztec
word, and that "the liquor was discovered by a Toltec
noble, who sent it by the hand of his daughter Xochitl,"
to the king who promptly named it "xoctl," whence
"cocktail" is a good specimen of the manufacture of
popular etymologies.'
  "As you will see from the foregoing, altho many
theories have been advanced as to the ctymoloey of the
term cocktail, these, like most etvmologies of the kind,
are mere flights of fancy, and while they make interest
ing reading, cannot be accepted as reliable."
   After careful analysis of Doctor Vizetelly's data it ap
pears to be certain that the odd mispronunciation of
coquetier in New Orleans is the oldest and most positive
basis for the word "cocktail."
  Monsieur Peychaud, glass in hand we salute you? A
votre santSl
  An interesting tale bearing upon the use of the word
cocktail in Old New Orleans is to be found in a book
written by a German traveler over a century ago. The
author was Henry Didimus, and his book. New Orleans
                                                    Thirteen
As I Saw It, tells of his adventures in the Crescent City
in the winter of 1835-36 at which time he became ac
quainted with the then famed brandy-cocktail.
  Herr Didimus writes of wandering about the old town
and of meeting up with three worthies . . . "one played
the fiddle, another beat the drum, and the third dealt
out nectar in the form of brandy-cocktail." Didimus
says he repeated the name, "brandy-cocktail" when such
a drink was suggested, so as to gain the attention of the
third worthy who thereupon said: "Ah, I see; not ac
quainted with the mixture," and led the way to a refresh
ment place. When all were seated about a table, the
third worthy yelled: "Boy, bring up four glasses of
brandy-cocktails!"
  The black slave vanished and returned with four tumb
lers practically filled, each of Didimus' companions
seized a glass, and eyes shining with anticipation, glasses
were touched, and the drinks were downed.
  Herr Didimus, immensely pleased with what the draft
did to his insides, demanded to be told in what way a
brandy-co<r/^toz7 differed from a brandy-^oi^y?
   "The difference between a brandy-cocktail and a
brandy-toddy is this," explained the loquacious worthy.
"A brandy-toddy is made by adding together a little
water, a little sugar, and a great deal of brandy—mix
well and drink. A brandy-cocktail is composed of the
same ingredients, with the addition of a shade of bitters
—so that the bitters draw the line of demarkation. Boy!"
he bellowed, "bring up four brandy-toddies—you shall
 taste the difierence, sir!"



 Fourteen
           "Whisf{ie shall put our brains in rage." 1715


                    Whiskey Drinks
   Whiskey is a potent drink and whiskey is a potent
 word—^perhaps because both are of Irish extraction. The
 English pronunciation of the word in use today is based
 upon a word the ancient Gaels applied to the product of
 their stills, for it appears they were the original whiskey-
 makers.
    The name they gave the distilled spirit was singularly
 fitting  they called it uisgebeatha. If we dissect the
word we find that uisge (pronounced oosh'gee) means
"water," beatha means "life," and the two combined mean
"water of life." All of which goes to prove you can't
beat the Irish for apt naming. In time this potent pro
duct of Ould Ireland's stills became "whiskbae," later
"whiskie," and finally just plain "whiskey."
  The Scots likewise were distillers of this ancient and
honorable liquid. They adopted the original name the
Irish gave to the white spirit which flowed from their
stills, the word going through a similar sequence of pro
nunciation until it became "whisky" without the e — note
spelling on any bottle of Scotch.
  We have much for which to thank the Irish, but whis
key rates a top place on the list. A toast to the Irish!
And what drink may better serve such purpose than one
of the many whiskey cocktails mixed to perfection as
in New Orleans ? Make it an Old Fashioned, a Sazerac,
a Manhattan, a julep, a highball, or just plain whiskey.
Whichever it may be, fill 'em up and drink 'em down
to the original whiskey-makers—the Irish!
   "Whis^ee—Pa! Give me a Glass of that Rhenish!" 1753
                                                           Fifteen
Highballs
          1 jigger rye whiskey,
                    or,
                    Bourbon whiskey,
                    Scotch whisky,
                    Irish whiskey,
                    cognac brandy,
                    applejack,
                    gin,
                •   rum.
            fizz water
            ice


   The dictionary lowdown on highball: "a long drink
of diluted spirits, usually whiskey, served in a tall glass
with cracked ice."
  Like all popular drinks, the highball is conspicuous
for its variety. Any spirituous liquor will answer—it
depends upon individual preference. Some like rye with
seltzer water, some Bourbon; others hold that the spirit
of the drink should be Scots whisky, and still others de
mand Irish whiskey. Brandy, rum, applejack, all have
their advocates, and there are even benighted souls who
crave gin in their highballs.
  As they used to say out West: "Name your own poison,
gents!"
  For the fizz accompaniment use whichever of these
appeals to you—seltzer, club soda, white rock, ginger ale,
coca cola, seven-up. Connoisseurs, as a rule, insist that
only cold water be poured upon their whiskey.




Sixteen
              The Sazerac Cocktoil

  Oldtimers will tell you the three outstanding drinks
of New Orleans in the memory of living men were the
dripped absinthe frappe of the Old Absinthe House,
the Ramos gin fizz, and the Sazerac cocktail.
  As previously related, the American cocktail was not
only born in Old New Orleans but was given its curious
name in the city's famous Vieux Carre. There are cock
tails and cocktails but the best known of all New Or
leans cocktails is unquestionably the Sazerac. The fact
that it originated in New Orleans gave rise to the legend
that it was first concocted by and named for an old Loui
siana family, legend without fact as no such Louisiana
family ever existed.
  A barbershop now holds forth in a building on the
right hand side of the first block in Royal street going
down from Canal, and before its doors, still remains
lettered in the sidewalk the word "SAZERAC."        This
denotative indicated the entranceway to a once well-
patronized bar on the Exchange Alley side of the build
ing. It was here the drink famed far and wide as a
Sazerac cocktail was mixed and dispensed. It was here
it was christened with the name it now bears.
  For years one of the favorite brands of cognac imported
                                                Seventeen
into New Orleans was a brand manufactured by the
firm of Sazerac-de-Forge et fils, of Limoges, France. The
local agent for this firm was John B. Schiller. In 1859
Schiller opened a liquid dispensary at 13 Exchange Alley,
naming it "Sazerac Coffee-house" after the brand of
cognac §erved exclusively at his bar.
  Schiller's brandy cocktails became the drink of the
day and his business flourished, surviving even the War
Between the States. In 1870 Thomas H. Handy, his
bookkeeper, succeeded as proprietor and changed the
name to "Sazerac House." An alteration in the mixture
also took place. Peychaud's bitters was still used to add
the right fillip, but American rye whiskey was substi
tuted for the cognac to please the tastes of Americans
who preferred "red likker" to any pale-faced brandy.
  Thus brandy vanished from the Sazerac cocktail to
be replaced by whiskey (Handy always used Maryland
Club rye, if you are interested in brand names), and the
dash of absinthe was added. Precisely when whiskey
replaced brandy and the dash of absinthe added are
 moot questions. The absinthe innovation has been
credited to Leon Lamothe who in 1858 was a bartender
for Emile Seignouret, Charles Cavaroc & Co., a wine im
porting firm located in the old Seignouret mansion still
standing at 520 Royal street. More likely it was about
1870, when Lamothe was employed at Pina's restaurant
in Burgundy street that he experimented with absinthe
 and made the Sazerac what it is today.
   But this history delving is dry stuff, so let's sample a
 genuine Sazerac. We will ask Leon Dupont, now vice-
 president of the St. Regis Restaurant but for years one
 of the expert cocktail mixers behind Tom Handy's origi
 nal Sazerac bar, to make one for us.
 Eighteen
     Here's how—and how!                                     3>iO
              1 lump sugar
              3 drops Peychaud's bitters
              1 dash Angostura hitters
              1 jigger rye whiskey
              1 dash absinthe substitute
              1 slice lemon peel
  To mix a Sazerac requires two heavy-bottomed, 3J^-ounce bar
  glasses. One is filled with cracked ice and allowed to chill. In
  the other a lump of sugar is placed with. just enough water to
  moisten it. The saturated loaf of sugar is then crushed with a
  barspoon. Add a few drops of Peychaud's hitters, a dash of
 ^gostura, a jigger of rye whiskey, for. while Bourbon may do
 tor a julep it just won't do for a real Sazerac. To the glass con
 taining sugar, bitters, and rye add several lumps of ice and stir.
 Never use a shaker! Empty the first glass of its ice, dash in
 several drops of absinthe, twirl the glass and shake out the
 absinthe . . . enough will cling to the glass to give the needed
 flavor. Strain into this glass the whiskey mixture, twist a piece
 of lemon peel over it for the needed zest of that small drop of
 oil thus extracted from the peel, but do not commit the sacrilege
 of dropping the peel into the drink. Some bartenders put a cherry
 in a Sazerac; very pretty hut not necessary.
   M-m-m-m-m! Let's have another, Leon!

 Kentucky Whiskey Cocktail
            1 jigger Bourbon whiskey
            1 jigger unsweetened pineapple juice
            1 lump sugar
Dissolve the sugar in the pineapple juice. Pour in the jigger of
Bourbon. Then some lumps of ice. Stir. Strain in serving glass.
  This cocktail could be made with rye whiskey, but
then you'd not be privileged to attach the name Ken
tucky to it. Some make the same drink with orange
juice instead of pineapple, and some use sweetened pine
apple juice. If the latter, be wary of the amount of
sugar you use.

                                                        Nineteen
Old Fashioned Cocktail
            1 lump sugar
            2 dashes Peychaud or Angostura bitters
            1 jigger rye whiskey
            1 piece lemon peel
            1 chunk pineapple
            1 slice orange peel
            2 maraschino cherries

Into a heavy-bottomed barglass drop a lump of sugar, dash on
the bitters, and crush with a spoon. Pour in the jigger of rye
whiskey and stir with several lumps of ice. No shaking allowed!
Let the mixture remain in the glass in which it is prepared. Gar
nish with a half-ring of orange peel, add the chunk of pineapple,
and the cherries with a little of the maraschino juice. Twist the
slice of lemon peel over all and serve in the mixing glass with the
barspoon.
  Old Fashioned? Yea, verily, but as appealing to smart
tastes now as on that certain Derby Day a half century
ago when the originator, whoever he may have been,
first stirred it into being at the Pendennis Club, in Louis
ville, Kentucky.
   The Old Fashioned has been a New Orleans institu
tion for many years and when other whiskey mixtures,
garnished with fancy names, have passed on and been
forgotten, the Old Fashioned will continue to tickle ex
perienced palates. Don't let anyone tell you that gin,
rum, or brandy can take the place of whiskey in an Old
Fashioned. Turn a deaf ear to such heresy. A real Old
Fashioned demands rye whiskey. Remember, Bourbon
won't do.
   In the old days before the Great Mistake the Old
 Fashioned contained less fruit than it does today. How-
 beit, the expert barkeep of pre-prohibition days never
 neglected to twist a slice of lemon peel over the glass be
 fore serving.
 Twenty
Blue Blazer
            1 lump sugar
           1 jigger Scotch whisky
           1 jigger hot water
Have two mugs, earthenware or metal, and in one dissolve the
lump of sugar in the hot water. Now add the Scots whisky; be
sure it's a good brand with plenty of alcoholic content for it has
to burn. Ignite the mixture. Hold the burning mug in one
hand, then empty the fluid rapidly from one container to the
other so that a streak of blue flame connects the two. ^rve in
a hot-drink glass after twisting a bit of lemon peel over the mix
ture and topping with a grating of nutmeg.
   If you have cold feet, chattering teeth, shivers, frozen
fingers, or chilblains, in other words, if you're cold, and
want to warm up the inner man, you can do no better
than thaw out with a Blue Blazer.
  This drink was a popular tipple aboard the palatial
paddle-wheeled steamboats that churned the waters of
the Mississippi during the time the Natchez and t^e
Robert E. Lee made history in upstream races to Samt
Louis. The barkeeps were expert in transferrmg the
blue-flamed liquid from one mug to another, accom
plishing the feat with an agility that kept the flames
from singeing their walrus-like moustaches. You c^
do the same, (with or wihtout the moustaches) but be
cautious; if any of this hot Scotch gets on your fingers
they'll burn like blue blazes!




                                                       T wenty-one
 Manhattan Cocktail
               1 lump sugar
               1 dash Peychaud bitters
               1 dash Angostura bitters
              '/2 jigger rye whiskey
              Vi jigger Italian vermouth
              1 slice lemon peel
 Drop a lump of sugar in a barglass, moisten with a very little
 water, dash on it the two bitters and crush with a barspoon. Add
 Ae rye whiskey (don't use Bourbon) and then the vermouth.
Drop several lumps of ice into the glass and stir. After straining
into the cocktail glass, twist a bit of lemon peel over the mixture
to extract the atom of oil, drop in a maraschino cherry with a
very httle of the sirup.

  There are almost as many recipes for a real Manhattan
cocktail as there are skyscrapers in Little Old New York,
or ways of getting into heaven. The Manhattan, origi-
nated at the old Delmonico Restaurant in New York
during the bibulous 90's, was composed of one-third
Italian vermouth, and two-thirds Bourbon whiskey. Nat-
^ally, the formula has been improved upon in New
Orleans; you 11 note we always improve upon things to
eat and drink in this New Orleans. Just an old Southern
custom!

  The Manhattan as served over the better New Orleans
bars has always had that certain something it lacks else
where. Reason: in first-class establishments the mixol
ogists use rye for the whiskey and the drink is stirred—
never shaken. Properly mixed with good brands of
hquor, the Manhattan is one of the finest drinks that
flourishes under the name of cocktail, and well deserves
the reputation that "it is the most popular cocktail in
the world."
Twenty-two
Dry Manhattan
               1 lump sugar
              1 dash Peychaud bitters
              1 dash Angostura bitters
            1/3 jigger rye whiskey
            1/3 jigger Italian vermouth
            1/3 jigger French vermouth
               1 slice lemon peel
This is mixed exactly as is the Manhattan. Must not be shaken—
a brisk stirring with large lumps of ice is the proper procedure.
Fine or crushed ice has a tendency to make drinks cloudy and
whiskey cocktails should have a clear amber color. Put a cherry
in the cocktail glass before straining in the mixture.
  There are cocktail quaflers who object to the sweet
ness of the Manhattan made in the orthodox manner and
prefer a dry Manhattan. The dryer drink is made by
using a third of a jigger each of the rye, the Italian, and
the French vermouths. When dropping the cherry into
the cocktail glass do not include any of the sirup.
Whiskey Cocktail
              1 lump sugar
            6-7 drops Angostura bitters
            5-6 drops Peychaud bitters
              1 teaspoon curajao
              1 jigger rye whiskey
Use a heavy-bottomed barglass and drop in a lump of sugar.
Moisten with a little water, add the two bitters, then ^sh with
a spoon. Put in the curagao, then the jigger of rye, and stir with
several lumps of ice. Strain into the serving glass. Finally ^ist
a sliver of lemon peel over the mixture. That adds the uny drop
of oil necessary for the perfect result.
  The whiskey cocktail is one of the old-time appetizer
drinks masquerading under a variety of names in dif
ferent parts of the country. Follow this recipe and you
will agree it's a cocktail deserving its wide popularity.
                                                         Twenty-three
Cocktail a la Louisiane
            1/3 jigger rye whiskey
            1/3 jigger Italian vermouth
            1/3 jigger Benedictine
               3-4 dashes absinthe substitute
               3-4 dashes Peychaud bitters
Mx in barglass with lumps of ice. Strain into a cocktail glass
in which has been placed a maraschino cherry.
   This is the special cocktail served at RestuuTunt de lu
Louisiune, one of the famous French restaurants of New
Orleans, long the rendezvous of those who appreciate
the best in Creole cuisine. La Louisiane cocktail is as
out-of-the-ordinary as the many distinctive dishes that
grace its menu.

Orange Whiskey Cocktail
           1 jigger rye whiskey
           1 jigger orange juice
           1 jigger charged water
           1 dash Peychaud bitters
           1 lump sugar
Mix the ingredients in a barglass, pour into a shaker with crushed
ice and shake vigorously. Strain into chilled cocktail glass.
Prepare in generous quantities, for your guests will offer their
glasses for more.
 While rye is indicated in the recipe you may substitute
Bourbon if that is your choice ... but sidestep Scotch
or Irish. The addition of the carbonated water gives
this one a little more sparkle than if you use plain water.
  The same cocktail can be made by substituting Orange
Wine for the orange juice. In some New Orleans homes
the celebrated Louisiana Orange Wine, made in the
orange groves below the city, is used in preference to the
plain orange juice. Many experts prefer Bourbon to rye
in this particular cocktail.
Ttventy-jour
Place d'Armes Cocktail
            54 orange—^juice only
            Yz lemon—juice only
            Yz lime—juice only
             1 pony grenadine sirup
             1 jigger whiskey
Squeeze the fruit juices in a mixing glass. Add the sirup; be
careful not to make it too sweet if you like a dry drink . . .
Otherwise use a little sugar. Then add the whiskey—some prefer
Bourbon, others rye. Rye is usually better in any mixed drink.
Strain into a tall glass half-filled with crushed ice. Decorate with
a sprig of mint, after frapp^ing well with a spoon.
  Of course, this gallant cocktail might be called a Jack
son Square as readily as a Place d'Armes or, if you speak
Spanish, how about Plaza de Armas? But its originator
called it a Place d'Armes, and we'll stick to that. It was
so named in honor of the grassy tree-shaded square front
ing the Cathedral and the Cabildo, where General An
drew Jackson sits astride a rearing battle steed, holding
aloft his chapeau in perpetual politeness. He would have
enjoyed this cocktail!




                                                       T wenty-five
Roffignac Cocktail
             1 jigger whiskey
             1 pony sirup
               seltzer or soda water
               ra§pberry sirup
Pour into a highball glass the jigger of whiskey (or use cognac,
as in the original drink). Add the sirup, which may be rasp-
berry, grenadine, or. red Hembarig, the sweetening used in New
Orleans a century ago. Add the soda water. Ice, of course.

  Joseph Rofl&gnac, before he fled his native land of
France at the time of the Revolution, was Count Louis
Philippe Joseph de Roffignac. In time he became a lead
ing merchant in New Orleans, the city of his adoption,
and its mayor for eight years. He fought the British
under "Old Hickory" at the Battle of New Orleans,
served in the state legislature, and was a banker of note.
As mayor he introduced street lighting, and laid the first
cobblestones in Royal street. For all his many honors,
Roffignac's name comes to us through the years linked
with a favorite tipple of Old New Orleans—the Roffig
nac.


   While not so celebrated as A. A. Peychaud's cocktail,
it was equally potent. The red Hembarig mentioned
in the directions for mixing was a popular sirup when
old New Orleans was young.




Twenty-six
  "An Ordinary Virginian rises about six o'cloc\. He then drin\s
       a julep made of rum, and sugar but very strong." 1787.


                             Juleps
    The word Julep is an old and honored one and can
  be traced as far back as A. D. 1400—long before we ever
 heard of the Southern States of these United States, where
 the julep is popularly supposed to be indigenous.
   For centuries the julep has been described as "some
 thing to cool or assuage the heat of passion," and "a
 sweet drink prepared in different ways." We know noth
 ing of the first definition but will confirm the second
 statement that it can be made in different ways.
   The earliest form of the word was iulep. Arabs called
 it julab, the Portuguese julepe, the Italians giulehhe,
 Latins named it julapium, Persians, gul-ab, meaning
 "rose water." The Greeks, alas, did not have a word
for it! ]ulep, as we spell it, is French. All this being
settled, let us get on with our juleping.
  Don't use rye whiskey in making a julep. If you do
use whiskey let it be Bourbon, which serves its highest
purpose when it becomes a component part of that
prince of all thirst-quenchers known as the Mint Julep.
There are many kinds of mint juleps, one for nearly
every Southern State—such as Kentucky, Georgia, Vir
ginia, Maryland, Louisiana juleps. We give several of
the most popular recipes.

   "The first thing he did upon getting out of bed was to call for
a fulep and I date my own love for whiskey from mixing and
tasting my young master's juleps." 1804.
                                                    Twenty-seven
Mint Julep
           1 teaspoon sugar
           1 dozen mint leaves
           1 jigger Bourbon whiskey
           1 j)ony nun
Put the mint leaves into a tall glass in which the julep is to be
served. Add the sugar and crush in a little water. Pour in the
Bourbon whiskey, then the rum, and fill the glass with shaved
ice. Jiggle the mixture with a long-handled spoon (do not stir)
until the outside of the glass or metal goblet is heavily frosted.
Arrange a bouquet of several sprigs of mint on top just before
handing to the recipient, who will ever after bless you.
  Naturally, one is aware that he takes his life in his
hands by even suggesting the way a real mint julep should
be prepared, for there are as many recipes for this truly
Southern drink as there are southern states in the Union.
  Julep experts—may their tribe never decrease!—know
that correct and authentic recipes take on changes in pass
ing from one state to another. Southern colonels, to say
nothing of majors, captains, and buck privates, have been
known to call for pistols under the duelling oaks when
it is even hinted that mint leaves be crushed in prepar
ing a julep. Other colonels, majors, etc., emit fire and
brimstone, and a Bourbon-laden breath, if the pungent
leaves are not crushed in the bottom of the glass and a
bouquet of short-to-measure sprigs placed on top in
which to snuggle the nose while the nectar is being
withdrawn with a reverent, albeit, audible sucking
through a straw.
   There is also a difference of opinion concerning the
variety of spirits that go into the making. In the recipe
above the pony of rum may be added or subtracted—it
all depends on your drinking mathematics. Rum, how
ever, gives added zest to a regulation whiskey julep.
T wenty-eight
  The one thing upon which the two mint julep schools
are fully agreed is this: it was a julep the two C^ohna
governors had in mind when making ^eir celebrated
observation regarding the length of time between drmks.

Kentucky Mint Julep
           1 lump sugar
           ? sprigs of mint leaves
           ? jiggers Bourbon whiskey.
Note the absence of the amount of Boujon to be used—th^'s
important in a julep, no matter from w at          which must
that is lacking in the above recipe is the shaved ice whiA must
go il £ Ilass or metal goblet in which the ,ulep is com
pounded.

  While Georgia may be able to make gwd the boast
that the mint julep originated within her                ^
appears to be no successful refutation of Kentucky s
claim that the Blue Grass State
drink. However divided                       ^J
leaves should be crushed or merely dunked, one ^ng
is certain-no Kentucky gentleman, far less a Kenmcky
colonel, would ever sanction a recipe which placed
limitations on the amount of Bourbon that goes into the
making.
  Nor will we here entangle ourselves in the age-long
controversy-should a julep be sucked through a straw
or drunk from the container? Kentuckians vociferously
maintain that the use of astraw rums ajulep. We have
tried Kentucky julep with a straw and without both
work!

   On one of his many visits to New Orleans "Marse
Henry" Watterson, one-time beloved editor of the Louis-
                                                    T wenty-nine
 ville Courier-Journal, told a young newspaper reporter
 his recipe for a real Kentucky mint julep.
   "Take a silver goblet, son, one that will hold at least
 a pmt, and dissolve a lump of loaf sugar in it with not
 more than a tablespoon of water. Take one mint leaf,
 no more, and crush it gently between the thumb and
  orefinger before dropping it into the dissolved sugar.
 • \        5 itgoblet
            into  all thenearly to whiskey
                          Bourbon  the brimthewith shaved
                                               goblet will
     * Take a few sprigs of mint leaves and use for
 decorating the top of the mixture, after it has been well
 frapped with a spoon. Then drink it. But," warned
 Marse Henry, "do not use a straw, son."
  I know that this was Marse Henry's version of a real
 Kentucky mint julep, for I was the young—and thirsty
 —newspaper reporter.


 Georgia Mint Julep
            1 teaspoon powdered sugar
            1 pony cognac brandy
            1 pony peach brandy
              sprigs of tender mint shoots
Use the goblet in which the julep is to be served. Place some of
andj '"'"'if''®®
      muddle or fbruise bottom, with Add
                         the leaves. the sugar and a litde
                                           the cognac and water,
                                                           peach
brandy. Fill ^e goblet with finely crushed ice. Jiggle with the
long-handled barspoon until well frapped.
   Jiggling is not stirring. Stirring calls for a rotary
motion, but "jiggling" is dashing the spoon up and down
st^eadily until the outside of the goblet is frosted. Place
the metal or glass container on atable to do your jiggling
—do not hold the glass for heat of the hand will hinder
frost from forming on the outside. When the julep has
Thirty
been thoroughly jiggled, thrust in a bunch of the ten-
derest mint shoots arranged to simulate a bouquet.
  This julep is to be absorbed with a straw, a short one
so that the drinker's nose is buried in the very heart
of the green nosegay as he drinks, thus adding the de
light of aroma to the delight of taste.

San Domingo Julep
               1 piece of loaf sugar
             l'/2 jigger rum
                 sprigs of mint
Into a tall glass (preferably a metal goblet) drop the sugar and
moisten with a Uttle water. Take several mint leaves and crush
while the sugar is being muddled with the barspoon. Fill with
shaved or finely crushed ice. Pour in the rum. Jiggle to frappe
the mixture. Set a bouquet of mint leaves on top before serving.
Aslice of orange peel for garnish is ritzy but not strictly necessary.
   This seems to be the original mint julep that came
to Louisiana away back in 1793, at the time the white
aristocrats, who were expelled from San Domingo by
the uprising of the blacks, settled in New Orleans. In
the United States, especially those states south of the
Mason and Dixon line, Bourbon whiskey gradually took
the place of sugar cane rum as the spirit of the drink.
  Many advocate the use of both red whiskey and rum
in making a julep, but if you wish to quaff the original
San Domingo julep use rum alone. Any of the well-
known imported or domestic brands will do, such as
Bacardi, Cabildo, Carioca, Pontalba, Rumrico, Charles
ton, Don Q., Puerto Rico, Jamaica, St. Croix, Red Heart,
or Pilgrim.
                                                           Thirty-one
 Brandy Mint Julep
             1 spoon powdered sugar
             1 pony Bourbon whiskey
             1 pony peach brandy
               sprigs of mint leaves
Mix as directed for the juleps in preceding pages. Use plenty of
crushed ice and frappe with the long-handled barspoon.
   It is rank heresy even to mention it, but some Georgia
julep experts make theirs by substituting Bourbon whis
key for cognac brandy. Whichever you use, Bourbon
or brandy, remember that quicker and prettier frosting
will result if you use a silver or other metal goblet rather
than glass. The outside of the container must be kept
dry if it is to take on a good frost, so do not hold it in
your hand when jiggling.

Sf. Regis Mint Julep
             1 teaspoon sugar
             1 teaspoon water
             1 dozen mint leaves
             1 jigger rye whiskey
             14 pony rum
             1 dash grenadine sirup
Into a tall glass crush the mint leaves with a barspoon. Dissolve
die sugar in water and stir. Pour in the whiskey and rum, then
the grenadine sirup. Fill the glass with crushed ice and jiggle
with the spoon. When properly frapped decorate the top with
sprigs of mint.
  This recipe departs in two ways from the usual . . .
the use of rye for Bourbon and the introduction of grena
dine sirup. In spite of its straying from the neither
straight nor narrow path of Bourbon, this julep is ex
ceedingly good on a hot day, or any day, for that matter.
It is the julep that is served at the St. Regis Restaurant
bar and is the pride of head-bartender John Swago.
Thirty-two
 Louisiana Mini- Julep
              1 teaspoon powdered sugar
                jigger Bourbon whiskey
                sprigs of mint
                crushed ice
Put a dozen leaves of mint in a barglass, cover with powdered
sugar and just enough water to dissolve the sugar. Crush sugar
and mint leaves gently with a muddler or barspoon. Pour half
the mint and sugar liquid in the bottom of the tall glass in which
the julep is to be served. Then enough shaved or snowball ice
to half fill. Next add the remaining mint and sugar liquid,
fill nearly to the top with shaved ice. Pour, in the Bourbon
until the glass is full to the brim. Place in the refrigerator at
least an hour before serving to acquire ripeness and frost. Top
with mint sprigs.
  Time was when the mint julep was strictly a symbol
of the South—a green and silver emblem of Dixie's
friendly leisure. But today the mint julep, that most
glorious of summer drinks, is becoming as popular above
the Mason and Dixon line as below it.
  Some term the Louisiana julep the last word in per
fection, so if you have the feeling you haven't sampled a
real julep, try the above. If you are still in doubt and
are willing to go to some trouble, try the one below.
New Orleans Mint Julep
  Put the glasses or the metal goblets in the refrigerator
the night before you are to serve juleps. This is a high-
powered julep so you'll need two jiggers of Bourbon
for every glass. In the serving glass drop a layer of
mint leaves, fill one-quarter full with shaved or snow
ball ice, then one teaspoon of powdered sugar. Repeat
until the glass is half ibll. Add one jigger of Bourbon.
Repeat until the glass is full, the second jigger of Bour
bon being the last to go into the glass. Serve on a
tray with a straw or tube in each goblet so that hand
does not touch the container, which is frosted white.
                                                     Thirty-three
"Thy secret pleasure turns to open shame, thy sugred tongue to
    bitter wormwood taste." Sha\espeare's Lucrece. 1593.

                Absinthe Drinks
  According to some authorities, absinthe as a drink
originated in Algeria, and French soldiers serving in
the Frango-Algerian war (1830-47) introduced the green
spirits to Paris upon their return from the North African
country where the drink foimd strong favor along the
boulevards. . In time the spectacle of bearded men and
demi-mondes dripping their absinthes became one of
the sights of Paris. Naturally, so fashionable a Parisian
drink was not long in finding its way to the Little Paris
of North America—New Orleans.
  The drink, which was spelled absynthe in New Or
leans liquor advertisements in 1837, when it was appar
ently first imported from France and Switzerland, was
a liquor distilled from a large number of various
herbs, roots, seeds, leaves, and barks steeped in anise. It
also included Artemisia ashinthium, a herb known as
"Wormwood' abroad, but called Herbe Sainte by the
French-speaking population of Louisiana. In recent years
wormwood has been condemned as harmful and habit-
forming, and laws have been enacted forbidding its use
in liquors in the United States and other countries. In
addition to banning wormwood from manufactured
liquor, the use of the word "absinthe" on bottles of
modern concoctions which do not contain wormwood,
is also banned. As a consequence, manufacturers of ab
sinthe substitutes have been forced to adopt trade names.
Thirty-four
               Old Absinthe House
  Of all the ancient buildings in New Orleans' famed
Vieux Carr6, none has been more glorified in story and
picture than a square, plastered-brick building at the
corner of Bourbon and Bienville streets, known as "The
Old Absinthe House."
   Hoary legend has long set forth that the building was
erected in 1752, 1774, 1786, 1792, but as a matter of fact
it was actually built in 1806 for the importing and com
mission firm of Juncadella & Font, Catalonians from
Barcelona, Spain. In 1820, after Francisco Juncadella
died and Pedro Font returned to his native land, the
place continued as a commission house for the barter of
foodstuffs, tobacco, shoes, clothing, as well as liquids
in bulk from Spain, and was conducted by relatives of
the builders. Later it became an epicerie, or grocery
shop; for several years it was a cordonnerie, or boot and
shoe store, and not until 1846 did the ground floor corner
room become a coffee-house, as saloons were then called.
  This initial liquid-refreshment establishment was run
by Jacinto Aleix, a nephew of Senora Juncadella, and
was known as "Aleix's Coffee-House." In 1869, Caye-
tano Ferrer, a Catalan from Barcelona, who had been
a bar-keeper at the French Opera House, transferred his
talents to the old Juncadella casa and became principal
drink-mixer for the Aleix brothers.    In 1874, Cayetano
himself leased the place, calling it the "Absinthe Room"
                                                T hirty-five
because of the potent dripped absinthe he served in the
Parisian manner. His drink became so popular that it
won fame not only for Cayetano, but for the balance
of his family as well—papa, mamma, Uncle Leon, and
three sons, Felix, Paul, and Jacinto, who helped to attend
the wants of all and sundry who crowded the place.
What the customers came for chiefly was the emerald
liquor into which, tiny drop by tiny drop, fell water from
the -brass faucets of the pair of fountains that decorated
the long cypress bar. These old fountains, relics of a
romantic past, remained in the Casa ]uncadella for many
years. Came prohibition when the doors of "The Old
Absinthe House" were padlocked by a United States mar
shal, and the contents of the place went under the ham
mer. Pierre Cazebonne purchased the prized antiques,
together with the old bar, and set them up in another
liquid refreshment parlor a block farther down Bourbon
street, where signs now inform the tourist that therein
is to be found the original "Old Absinthe Bar' and anti
que fountains, and we find the marble bases pitted from
the water which fell, drop by drop, from the faucets over
the many years they served their glorious mission.
   In these modern years the tourist yearning for an old
flavor of the Old New Orleans to carry back as a memory
of his visit, goes to 400 Bourbon street, not only to see
the venerable fountains and bar, but to be served absinthe
frappe by a son of Cayetano Ferrer, the Spaniard who
established "The Old Absinthe House." Jacinto Ferrer
(we who know him call him "Josh") should indeed
know how to prepare the drink properly for he has been
at it 65 years. Josh served his apprenticeship in his
father's celebrated "Absinthe Room" in W2, and today
at three-score-years-and-ten, carries on with an air the
profession at which he began his apprenticeship as a five-
year-old boy.
Thirty-six
Dripped Absinthe Frangaise
            1 lump sugar
            1 jigger absinthe substitute
            1 glass cracked ice
Pour the jigger of absinthe substitute into a barglass filled with
cracked ice. Over it suspend a lump ofsugar in a special absinthe
glass which has a small hole in the bottom (use a strainer if you
haven't the glass) and allow water to drip, drop by drop, slovvly
into the sugar. When the desired color which indicates its
strength has been reached and most of the sugar dissolved, stir
with a spoon to frapp(f. Strain into a serving glass.
  This recipe is for the original dripped absinthe that
made famous Cayetano Ferrer's "Old Absinthe House
when he introduced the Parisian drink to New Orleans
—the drink containing oil of wormwood which instigat
ed the banishing of the word "Absinthe" ftoi^ bottle
labels. It is the same dripped absinthe, the "Fairy with
Green Eyes," described in Marie Corelli's famous book
"Wormwood."
  Today, the absinthe substitutes are free of the hari^ul
extract of the herb Artemisia absinthium, and entirely
safe when imbibed (in moderation) at any bar.

Absinthe Cocktail
             1 jigger absinthe substitute
             1 teaspoon sugar sirup
             1 dash anisette
             2 dashes Peychaud bitters
             2 ounces charged water
Fill a highball glass a little more than half full wiA cracked or
crushed ice. Pour in the absinthe substitute, sugar sirup, anisette,
and bitters, then squirt in carbonated or other live water. ^Jiggle
with a barspoon until the mixture is well frapp^d. Strain into
cocktail glasses which have been iced ahead of time.
                                                        Thirty-seven
Absinthe Frappe
            1 jigger absinthe substitute
            1 teaspoon sugar sirup
            1 jigger charged water
Fill a small highball glass with cracked or shaved ice. Pour in
the sugar sirup, then the absinthe substitute, and drip water
(seltzer or other charged water will improve it) slowly while
frappeing with the spoon. Continue jiggling the barspoon until
the glass becomes well frosted.
   This is the simple and easy way to prepare an absinthe
drink, one that has many devotees in many lands. Of
course, if you have a shiny cocktail shaker and want to
put it to work, you can use it. Shake until the shaker
takes on a good coating of frost, and then pour the mix
ture into glasses which have been well iced before the
drink is prepared.


Absinthe Anisette
               1 pony anisette
               1 jigger absinthe substitute
Use a small glass and fill with shaved or finely cracked ice. Pour
in the anisette and absinthe. Jiggle with a barspoon until heavily
frapped and serve in the same glass. A straw goes with this one.
  The modern absinthe substitutes cannot be detected in
taste even by those who were familiar with the original
but now illegal liquor, a flood of fancy and trademarked
names has resulted, and it is marketed under such names
as Greenopal, Herbsaint, Pernod, Assent, Milky Way,
and the like.



Thirty-eight
Green Opal Cocktail
             1 jigger Greenopal, or other absinthe
               substitute
               pony dry gin
            14 pony anisette or ojen
             1 dash orange bitters
             2 dashes Peychaud bitters
Put the absinthe substitute and dry gin in a shaker. Add anisette
or ojen (make your own choice), and the two bitters. Fill shaker
with crushed ice to frappe.
  This is a special cocktail featured by Solari's, manu
facturers of Greenopal, the absinthe substitute that gives
this cocktail its foundation. The name green opal comes
from its lovely opalescent color.
 A different, highly recommended cocktail for those
who want something very good as well as very different.,

Jil'ters Cocktail
            1/3 jigger ojen
            1/3 jigger gin
            1/3 jigger French vermouth
Pour all ingredients into a barglass filled with ice. Jiggle with
a barspoon until well frapped, and serve in a cold cocktail glass.
  This is a Spanish cocktail featured by Fernandez 8e Co.,
famous Ojen distillers of Jerez, Spain. Barkeepers who
claim that Ojen should not be mixed with other liquors,
say this one ought to give anybody the "jitters."
  Old and odd names for Ojen in New Orleans were
"Majorca" and "Anis del mono" Majorca for the fam
ous Spanish island in the Mediterranean, and Anis del
mono meaning "monkey anise." Why monkey.? Your
guess is as good as mine. Maybe enough Ojen cocktails
encourage monkeyshines!
                                                       T hirty-nine
Ojen
             1 jigger ojen
             1 glass crushed ice
             1 ctince carbonated water
Fill a barglass with crushed ice. Add a jigger of ojen. Jiggle
energetically with a barspoon for a moment or two. Add an
ounce of seltzer or other charged water and jiggle again. Strain
into a cocktail glass which has been thoroughly chilled.

   Ojen possesses so much delicacy of flavor that it should
be served neat and not mixed with other ingredients, al
though there are recipes that call for mixing. While an
Ojen is supposed to be frapp^d with a spoon, a good
shaking will do no harm to the flavor and will induce a
thicker coating of frost.
   Ojen (which is pronounced oh-hen) is a word short
ened from the Spanish ajenjo {ah-hen'ho) meaning ab
sinthe and wormwood in the musical tongue of Spain. It
is manufactured from anise, which is also a predominant
ingredient in absinthe, and despite its original Spanish
name, Ojen contains no harmful wormwood.


Ojen Cocktail
              1 jigger ojen
            2-3 dashes Peychaud bitters
                 seltzer water.

Stir the mixture in a barglass with ice, add a little seltzer or other
charged water, and strain into a frapped cocktail glass.

  The bitters give this Ojen a delicate rose-colored tinge.
Therefore it masquerades under the name of "Pink
Shimmy," or pinque chemise, if you prefer the language
of the fifty million who can't be wrong.
Forty
Suissesse
              1 teaspoon sugar
              1 pony French vermouth
              2 p)onies absinthe substitute
              1 white of egg
             54 pony crhme de menthe
              2 ounces charged water
Mix the sugar with charged water, vermouth, and absinthe. Drop
in the white of egg. Fill the glass with cracked ice and shake
vigorously. Strain into a champagne glass in which there is a
cherry with crime de menthe poured over it.
  Suissesse, a perfectly good French word meaning a
Switzerland-born female, lives up to the reputation
earned by those hardy daughters dwelling among the
rocks of their picturesque land. The Alps are wonder
ful—so is a Suissesse. If the name stumps you, pronounce
it "swee-cess" and you'll make the barkeep understand
what you want. If you yearn to mix one yourself, fol
low the directions given above and find out why some
folk call a Suissesse tops in mixed drinks.

Green Opal Suissesse
  The Suissesse given above is probably what originated
Swiss yodelling. In New Orleans we have a variation of
the happy mixture that transforms yodelling into the
more American "whoopee!" Follow these directions for
an adventure in excitement
             1 jigger Greenopal or other absinthe
                substitute
            54 pony anisette sirup
               white of an egg
                crushed ice

All go into a metal shaker. Shake until the outside takes on a
heavy frosting. Bear in mind that one egg white will take care
of ten or a dozen portions. Serve in cocktail glasses.
                                                         Forty-one
  "The Infamous Liquor, the name of tvhich deriv'd from
Juniper-Berries in Dutch, is now, by frequent use from a word
of midling length shrun\ into a Monosyllable, Intoxicating Gin."


                       Gin Drinks
  Of all popular alcoholics, gin probably leads in favor,
especially in tropic and sub-tropic countries. To go high
bat Avitb the language, gin is an aromatized potable with
a characteristic flavor derived from the juniper berry.
The word "gin" is merely a shortening of the liquor's
original name, geneva, taken from an old Dutch word,
genever, a name for the juniper berry.
  In old writings (such as one of 1706: "Geneva, a kinde
of Strong Water, so called") are found many references
to this liquor. Its shortened form Gin, formerly denoted
a double distilled spirit of British manufacture, imitation
of the original liquor, marketed by the Dutch as Hollands
geneve, later known as Hollands, but today called Hol
land Gin.
  That the British form of geneve was for many years
even as now a popular drink, is amply proved by litera
ture of the past. For example, in 1709 "The Gypsie
With Flip and Geneve got most Damnably Typsie," and
in 1728, Dean Swift, driving home a simile, wrote: "Their
chatt'ring makes a louder din than fishwives o'er a cup
of jin."
  Our so-called dry gin, usually coupled with the infor
mation on the bottle that it is "London Dry Gin," as
popular in this country and the British possessions, as it
is in the Merry Old Isle. First made in England by a
redistillation process repeated frequently before bottling,
it is quite different from the old Holland gins which
verge on the sweet side.
Forty-two
   Fable tells us that the name "Old Tom" Gin, of certain
 British brands, was so named when an old Tom cat fell
 into a barrel of the spirits. This tradition is antedated
 by the fact that years before the tale of the drowned cat
 went the rounds, Hodge's Distillery in England named
 their brand of gin for old Tom Chamberlain, a distiller
 employed by them. His picture in the garb of a sailor
 appears on the labels pasted on the bottles.
   Sloe Gin, used in some of our fancy mixed drinks, is
 named for a small, bitter black wild plum, the oil of
 which is used to flavor the distilled spirit—^not because
 there is anything slow about its effects. Sloe gin is fast
 coming into favor because of its mild strength and the
 distinctive flavor given it by the sloe berries—tart yet
 somewhat sweet.
  Practically all of the gin drinks, the drys. Old Toms,
and sloes, belong in the tall glass category . . . tall ones
that tinkle when filled with ice and make hot days coolish
and hot nights cooler. Before you try any of the famous
New Orleans recipes which have for their basic ingredient
good old gin, first let me introduce you to a mixed drink
that has won world-wide acclaim—New Orleans own
and truly refreshing Ramos Gin Fizz.




1,1]:; vnc- |h'
 •I'l,'   lij   I

v.if' hi-,' ;
•1' 'J.

                                                 Forty-three
Ramos Gin Fizz
               1 tablespoon powdered sugar
             3-4 drops orange flower water
              Vz lime—juice only
              Vz lemon—^juice only
               1 jigger dry gin
               1 white of egg
               1 jigger rich milk or cream
               1 squirt seltzer water
               2 drops extract vanilla (optional)
Mix in a tall barglass in the order given; add crushed ice, not
too fine as lumps are needed to whip up the froth of the egg white
and cream. Use a long metal shaker and remember this is one
drink which needs a long, steady shaking. Keep at it until the
mixture gets body—"ropy" as some experienced barkeepers ex
press it. When thoroughly shaken, strain into a tall thin glass for
serving.

  This gin fizz long has been an institution in the city
care forgot. The age of the Ramos gin fizz is well past
the half-century mark and its popularity shows no signs
of abating. In the good old days before the federal gov
ernment was so prodigal with padlocks, the saloons of
Henry C. Ramos were famous for the gin fizzes shaken
up by a busy bevy of shaker boys. Visitors, not to men
tion home folk, flocked in droves to the Ramos dis
pensary to down the frothy draft that Ramos alone knew
how to make to perfection. One poetical sipper eulo
gized it thus: "It's like drinking a flower!"
   Exactly what went into the making of a Ramos gin
fizz always has been more or less a secret. One thing is
certain—only at the Ramos establishment could one get
what tasted like a real gin fizz. Wherefore, like all suc
cessful drinks, the Ramos fizz was widely imitated but
never really duplicated. Possibly no other thirst assuag-
Forty-four
ing emporium gave the mixture the long deliberate shak
ing it received from the shaker boys behind the Ramos
bar, and that was the secret of its lip-smacking goodness.
Came prohibition, and the drink that made the name of
Ramos famous disappeared. After the return of legal
liquor the trade name of Ramos on a gin fizz was ac
quired by the Hotel Roosevelt, and today that is its legal
domicile.


  The gin fizz, and by that I mean the common or gar
den variety, had its beginning way back yonder, but the
Ramos concoction was not known to Orleanians until
1888 when Henry C. Ramos came to New Orleans from
Baton Rouge and purchased the Imperial Cabinet saloon
from Emile Sunier. The Cabinet was located at the
corner of Gravier and Carondelet streets (where a
modern Sazerac saloon now holds forth) and above it,
on the second story, was a famous restaurant of days
gone by—The Old Hickory. Here it was that Henry
Ramos served the gin fizz that departed so radically from
the other frothy gin mixtures served in New Orleans
saloons, and here he remained until 1907 when he pur
chased Tom Anderson's Sta^r saloon opposite the Gravier
street entrance to the St. Charles Hotel.

  The new place became a mecca for the thirsty and for
those pioneers who would make a pilgrimage of any sort
for a new drink. At times The Stag became so crowded
that customers were forced to wait an hour or more (or
so it seemed) tobe served. The corps ofbusy shaker boys
behind the bar was one of the sights of the town during
Carnival, and in the 1915 Mardi Gras, 35 shaker boys
nearly shook their arms off, but were still unable to keep
Up with the demand.
                                                  Forty-five
  The recipe given is the original formula. Veteran bar-
keeps differ violently—practically come to blows—over
the inclusion of the two innocent drops of extract of
vanilla. Old-timers who worked for Henry Ramos in
the past declare the original Ramos included no vanilla
in its make-up. Others hold that the twin drops of ex
tract wrung from the heart of the vanilla bean either
make or break a real gin fizz—make it taste like heaven
or the reverse.

  Therefore, when you mix your fizz, add the two vanil
la drops or leave them out, just as you please. If still in
doubt, take it up with Paul Alpuente at the Hotel Roose
velt bar. He was with Henry Ramos for years and when
he mixes your Ramos gin fizz, watch him closely.

Tom Collins
             1 barspoon powdered sugar
             1 lemon—juice only
             1 dash orange flower water
            V2 lime—juice only
             1 jigger dry gin
             2 ounces seltzer water

Into a tall highball glass place a generous spoonful of bar sugar.
Squeeze in the juice of a lemon. Add a dash of orange flower
water, and squirt in about 2 ounces of seltzer. Stir until the
sugar is dissolved. Next squeeze in the juice of half a lime and
add a generous jigger of gin. Stir. Add several lumps of fine
ice and jiggle with a barspoon. Add just enough seltzer to fill
to the brim and jiggle energetically. Serve in the mixing glass.

   Who was Tom Collins? No matter—especially on a
hot summer day.when you need the coolest, the most re
freshing drink known to sweltering humanity. Whether
or not you know anything about Mr. Collins or his an
tecedents, or why he was important enough to have a
forty^
drink named for him, you can take otu: word for it that
this one is among the best known and best liked drinks
in New Orleans, and all points West, East, and North.
  Like many another thirst-quencher, the Tom Collins is
subject to infinite variations. It is not difficult to con
coct and no knack is needed to make it just right, but
we implore you not to leave out the dash of orange flow
er water. Depart not from the recipe above, sanctioned by
John Swago, one of the best old-time mixologists who
ever pushed a Tom Collins across polished mahogany.
 Then there is Rum Collins, or "Charley Collins",
which found its way into New Orleans from Cuba. To
make this one substitute Cuban type rum, Bacardi or
like brands, for the dry gin, but don't leave out the dash
of orange flower water.

John Collins
             1 barspoon powdered sugar
             1 lemon—juice only
             1 dash orange flower water
           '/2 lime—^juice only
          3-4 jigger rye whiskey
           V* jigger rum
            2 ounces seltzer water


 A John Collins is made exactly like the Tom Collins
with one exception . . . use no gin. The same amount of
sugar, lemon, orange flower water, lime and seltzer. Sub
stitute for the gin three-quarters of a jigger of rye
whiskey plus one-quarter jigger rum. Mix, stir, and ice
in the same way you fixed up Brother Tom, and there
you have a cooling summer drink, preferred by many to
the one named for Tom Collins.
                                                Forty-seven
                          Gin Fizzes
       Silver, Golden, and Royal Fizzes
              1 lemon—juice only
              1 barspoon powdered sugar
              1 jigger dry gin
                seltzer water

Mix in a bar glass, drop in several lumps of ice, cover with a
shaker and shake well. Pour into a tall serving glass and fill
with seltzer water.

  The above is the common or garden variety of gin fizz,
in \vhich that old standby gin plays the principal role,
and is not to be confused w^ith the celebrated Ramos gin
fizz that has helped contribute to New Orleans' fame.
  As with other popular drinks, the gin fizz lends itself
to endless variations. We have the Silver Fizz, the Golden
Fizz, and the Royal Fizz—a trinity of throat-ticklers in
which the addition of an egg, in its separate and col
lective parts, makes the difference.
  A Silver Fizz is made exactly like the gin fizz given
above—with the addition of the white of an egg. Shake
well in a shaker, remembering that largish pieces of ice
are needed whenever any part of an egg is added to a
mixture.

  A Golden Fizz is identical with the ahove, save that the
yolk only of the egg is used.
  A Royal Fizz requires both the yolk and white of the
egg-
  In any of these gin fizzes it must be remembered that
the fizz water is added to the drink after it has been
shaken and strained into the serving glass.
Forty-eight
Dry Martini
             1 pony French vermouth
             1 pony dry gin
            J4 teaspoon orange bitters
Mix in a barglass with several good sized lumps of ice and stir
with a barspoon—never put a dry martini in a shaker, as William
Powell and Myrna Loy did in The Thin Man. Be sure to use
French brut or dry vermouth if you want your cocktail to crackle.
Don't forget the olive! A small pearl onion may take its place
if you're onion-minded. Spear the olive (or onion) with a tooth
pick for dainty transfer from hand to mouth.

  Visitors who know their liquor will soon discover that
in no other one city does the man behind the bar mix
a better dry martini than in New Orleans. That is be
cause the bartender makes a simple operation of it, using
the better French makes of dry vermouth, such as Noilly
Prat, Cinzano, and Cazapra; and dry gins like Gordon's,
Hiram Walker's, Gilbey's, Milshire's, Fleischmann's, Sil
ver Wedding, or similar brands. When making your
own, use a good make of orange bitters. Do not shake.
We repeat—do not sha\e, even if you heard us the first
time. Stir, and serve in a chilled glass.
  The dry martini was originally called the "Waldorf-
Astoria cocktail" as it was first made of French vermouth
(not the sweeter Italian brand) at that famous old New
York hostelry in the gay '90's. The recipe called for a
dash of orange bitters, 1/3 French vermouth, and 2/3 dry
gin . . . olive, of course.
  John Swago, of the St. Regis, who knows what he is
about when concocting a dry martini, uses dry gin and
French vermouth in equal portions, and not the 2/3 gin
and 1/3 vermouth usually suggested in drink recipes.
Drink one of John's dry martinis and taste the difference!
                                                      Forty-nine
Not-Too-Dry Martini                                 ; oM *'-«
            1-2 dashes orange bitters
            2/3 French vermouth
            1/6 Italian vermouth
            1/6 dry gin
This one is for those who prefer their martini cocktail not too
dry and not too sweet. Stir as directed in the dry recipe with
several pieces of ice. Strain into serving glass on top of an olive.
Note that this martini is darker in color and a trifle on the sweet
side.

  This one is frequently termed "the perfect martini."

Sweet Martini
            1 part dry gin
            2 parts Italian vermouth
This is the one to mix if a sweet martini is what you want. Stir
and serve as directed for the dry martini, but do not include an
olive when you strain it into the cocktail glass.
   The Italian vermouths are not as dry as those made in
France and are classified as "sweet" vermouths. A fav
orite Italian vermouth is that manufactured by Martini
& Rossi, which vermouth, by the way, gave this cocktail
its name. Vermout is the French word applied to a liquor
manufactured from white wine flavored with certain
aromatic herbs. In this country we spell it vermouth.




Fifty
Wallis Blue Cocktail
           1 pony Cointreau
           1 jigger dry gin
           1 lime—^juice only

Mix in a shaker well supplied with pieces of ice. Shake. Strain
into a cocktail glass, the rim of which should be rubbed with
the lime pulp and dipped in sugar just before being filled and
served.

   When radio and newspapers blazoned to the world
that the Duke of Windsor had concocted a new cocktail
at Chdteau de Cande, Monts, France, in honor of his
marriage to the Lady from Baltimore, many recipes
purporting to be THE one found their way into print—
most of them impossible.
  The former Edward VIII of England toasted his duch
ess-to-be in what proves to be a variation of the well-
known and popular "Side Car" cocktail, with gin sub
stituted for brandy. That the cocktail might match the
eyes of his American bride and reflect her penchant for
blue, vegetable dye was added to give the proper color.
Truly a royal gesture.
  The king who surrendered a throne for the woman he
loved, mixed a delightful and well-balanced cocktail.
You can do the same, if Cointreau is used. While there
are a number of satisfactory domestic cordials of the dis
tilled orange type, it is better to stick to the imported
brand of M. Cointreau, of Angers, France. Do not sub
stitute lemon juice for lime, and be sure you use a good
brand of dry gin. The blue coloring matter isn't abso
lutely necessary—but it looks pretty and matches Wally's
eyes.

                                                     Fifty-one




                                                     OAL.
Side Car Cocktail
            1 jigger cognac brandy
            1 pony Cointreau
            1 lime—juice only
Pour into a mixing glass with cracked ice and shake well. Strain
from the shaker into a cocktail glass, chilled before serving. The
imported French Cointreau will he found superior to domestic
brands.

  This is the Cointreau drink upon which the Duke of
Windsor based the "Wallis Blue" cocktail he created at
the prenuptial dinner for his bride.
  Some prefer lemon when making a Side Car to the
tangy flavor of lime. Others make it by using one-third
each of brandy, cura<;ao, and lemon juice. Some substi
tute Triple Sec for the Cointreau. All are mighty good.
One thing to bear in mind when mixing and serving the
Side Car is that it must be well frapp^d. Therefore, never
use cocktail glasses that have not been well chilled in
advance.
  Legend has it that this cocktail was created by accident.
An innkeeper of France, confused and excited by news
of damage to his side car, combined separate orders of
cognac brandy, Cointreau, and lemon juice into a single
drink. The mischance proved a bonanza, for the happy
mixture found instant favor. Growing in popularity
through the years. Side Car has now become the smart
drink of two continents.




Fifty-two
Vieux Carre Cocktail
            54 teaspoon benedictine
             1 dash Peychaud bitters
             1 dash Angostura bitters
           1/3 jigger rye whiskey
           1/3 jigger cognac brandy
           1/3 jigger Italian vermouth
The benedictine is used as a base and also for sweetening the
cocktail. Dash on the bitters, then add the rye,
vermouth. Put several lumps of ice in the barglass. Stir. ^ wst
a slice of lem.on peel over the mixture. Drop m a slice ot pme-
apple and a cherry if you wish and serve in mixing glass.
  This is the cocktail that Walter Bergeron, head bar
tender of the Hotel Monteleone cocktail lounge, tal^s
special pride in mixing. He originated it, he says, to do
honor to the famed Vieux Carr6, that part of New Or
leans where the antique shops and the iron lace balconies
give sightseers aglimpse into the romance of another day.
Orange Blossom
            1 pony orange juice
            2 ponies dry gin
            1 dash Peychaud bitters
This drink calls for a shaker. Allow plenty of ice
sure the mixture is well frapp^d before pounng into cocktail
glasses previously chilled.
   A simple drink to mix and simply grand to drink,
 especially on a hot day or a warm night. Some,devotees
 of this cocktail prefer a half-and-half mixture of
 orange juice, and some forego the delight of the dash of
 Peychaud bitters in favor of the addition of ahttle grena
 dine sirup or a little honey. Some make it by using a
 third each of gin, Italian vermouth, and orange juice.
   Whichever recipe you follow, be sure you have ^sweet
 juicy orange. We recommend Louisiana Sweet the best
 on the market.
                                                      Fifty-three
               1 jigger dry gin
                        or                       '' .'
                        sloe gin,
                        rum,
                        rye whiskey,
                        bourbon whiskey,
              Vz lime—^juice and pulp
                 seltzer water
 Mix in the 6 or 8 ounce highball glass in which it is to be served.
 Fill with crushed ice and squirt on the seltzer or other sparkling
 water. Remember the lime pulp is left in the glass.
    Rickeys must have lime juice in their composition,
 whether they are made with dry or sloe gin, Cuban type
 rum, rye or Bourbon whiskey. Use plenty of ice cubes
 when mixing, don't fail to include the squeezed-out lime
 pulp, and liven with seltzer water. Any of the waters
 which do queer things to your nose will answer.
   All we know about the naming of this simple, satisfy
 ing summer drink which comes to us in a tall glass with
 clinking ice, is that it was named for a certain Colonel
 Joseph Rickey. Another allegation is that he was a
 naember of Congress!
 State Street Cocktail
              1 jigger unsweetened pineapple juice
              1 lemon—^juice only
             Yz lime—^juice only
              1 jigger dry gin
              1 white of egg
              2 teaspoons sugar
     sugar with the gin and pineapple juice imtil dissolved. Add
juice of the lemon and lime. After placing in shaker with plenty
of ice lumps, add the white of egg—remembering that one egg
wiu do for a dozen portions. Shake vigorously, as with all drinks
containing egg white. Serve in clear crystal glasses. This drink
IS as pleasant to the eye as to the palate with its pale amber color
     collar of foam.
  This is the author's favorite warm weather cocktail. He
Fifty.four
is fond of it in the wintertime, too. In fact, he doesn't
know any season when it fails to hit the spot. His wife
brought the original recipe back from Mexico imder the
name of "Franco," but the author found by experiment
that gin was a great improvement over pulque, mescal,
ortequila in mixing the drink.
  We always improve 'em in New Orleans. How true
what they say about Dixie!
Bronx Cocktail
            14 dry girr
               French dry vermouth
            14 Italian vermouth
             1 thick slice orange
             1 dash Peychaud bitters                      , .
The Bronx is far from being a dry cocktail, but neithcjr is it too
sweet. As the flavor depends upon the orange, it woidd be
to select a Louisiana Sweet, if possible. The tall barglass should
be filled with shaved ice and, with the metal shaker ovM it, given
a vigorous shaking before contents are strained into the serving
glass. Some add a dash of Peychaud or Angostura bitters to the
mixture before serving.
   Just why this particular mixture was christened the
 Bronx remains a mystery and probably always will. It is
 quite possible some inspired soul concluded that if Man
 hattan had its own particular cocktail there was no good
 reason why the Borough of the Bronx should not simi
 larly be honored.
    Like the Manhattan, there are a number of favored
 recipes for the Bronx, varying in the quantities of gin,
 vermouths, and orange used. The recipe given above is
 the one usually served in New Orleans, and when a Lou
 isiana Sweet orange is used, the stranger in om nudst
 learns that a Louisiana-grown Valencia is much juicier
 and sweeter than the oranges which come to us from
 Florida or sunny California. (Florida and California
 papers please copy.)
                                                          Fifty-five
 Old Hickory Cocktail
              1 pony French vermouth
              1 pony Italian vermouth
              1 dash orange bitters
              2 dashes Peychaud bitters
 Pour the two vermouths into a barglass, add the dash of orange
 bitters, the two shots of Peychaud hitters. Fill with cubes of ice
 and stir well. Strain into a serving glass. Twist a piece of lemon
 peel over then drop it into the glass.
   According to hoary but unsubstantiated tradition, this
 was the favorite tipple of General Andrew Jackson when
 be was in New Orleans the winter of 1814-15 helping
              Lafl5te win the Battle of New Orleans.
   But we can promise this Old Hickory cocktail won't
 be as tough on your palate as was "Old Hickory" Jackson
 on the British that historic Eighth of January.
 Pink Lody
            1 pony dry gin
            I pony applejack or apple brandy
            1 lime—^juice only
            2 barspoons grenadine sirup
            1 white of egg
Use a barglass for mixing. The amount of grenadine used will
determine the sweetness of the drink as well as the pinkness of
Me lady. The white of egg, which will do for one or a dozen
drinks, improves its smoothness. Use large lumps of ice in the
shaker. Serve in chilled cocktail glasses.
,.             ladies and ladies, but this one, named for a
light opera, makes everything rosy.
  Another with plenty of championing boy friends is
concocted thus: two barspoons of grenadine or raspberry
grup, a jigger of gin, white of egg, and three dashes of
J^eychaud bitters. Prepare in a shaker glass and exercise
your arms, for this one is "To the Ladies!"
Pifty-six
 Clover Club
             1 jigger diy gin
            VI lime—^juice only
             1 pony raspberry sirup
             1 white of egg
             1 dash Peychaud bitters.
Pour the ingredients into the shaker in order given. Drop in the
lumps of ice. Set yourself for a good shaking, for this is a cock
tail that must be well frapped To give chic to the final result,
decorate your cocktail glasses with sprigs of mint after straining
into them the delightful liquid from your shaker.
   Some of the how-to-mix'em-experts use grenadine sirup
instead of the raspberry. Upon experiment it will be
found that red raspberry not only gives a prettier pink
color but imparts a flavor grenadine cannot match. As it
has the white of an egg in it, this cocktail must be well
shaken.
  Why was it named a c/oyer cocktail? Well, you have
us there. Possibly it's because the lucky recipient, after
tossing it off (or should this drink be tossed?) will con
cede that the finding of a four-leaf clover is not so lucky
as finding this cocktail.
  We have always admired the added ummph the dash
of Peychaud bitters gives this deservedly popular concoc
tion.




                                    1




                                                     Fifty-seven
Alexandre
            1 pony dry gin
            1 pony cr^me de cacao
            1 pony rich cream
            1 white of egg
Have just enough shaved or finely pounded ice in the shaker
before pouring in the gin, creme de cacao, and cream.^Remember
that one white of egg will do, whether you are mixing for two
or a dozen guests. Be strenuous in your shaking whenever there
is white of egg or cream in a mixture. Shake, brother, sl^c,
and then shake some more for good measure. Strain into cocktail
glasses and hear your guests call you a good mixer.
  Smooth as cream, delicate as dew, and easily prepared
is the Alexandre. Some who mix this particular cocktail
do not use the white of egg. A mistake, for the albumen
gives a froth and an added smoothness which makes this
cocktail different. Like all drinks in which egg white is
used vigorous shaking is required. Give the Alexandre
all you've got in elbow grease to make it live up to its
reputation—^for it is truly Alexander the Great among
 drinks in its class.
    Note our Frenchy spelling. If you have trouble with
 its pronunciation, simply hold your nose tight between
 thumb and forefinger. But, should you by mischance
 pronounce it Alexander—it will taste just the same. And
 the taste is simply de-lovely.




  Fifty-eight
 "The chiefe judling they mal{e in the Islands Barbados is Rum
 bullion, alias Kill-Devil, and this is made of sugar canes distilled,
 a hott, hellish, and terrible Liquor." 1651

                         Rum Drinks
    From time immemorial rum has been distilled as a by
 product of the manufacture of sugar in all countries
 where sugar cane is grown. As a liquor it became the ac
 cepted beverage practically everywhere that strong drink
 was in demand, and with the spread of its popularity all
 lusty liquors, regardless of origin, were termed "rum."
   In the early days blackstrap molasses, from which rum
 was distilled, was shipped from Jamaica, Puerto Rico,
 Santo Domingo, Cuba, and the Barbados into staid New
 England. True rum is a spirit distilled from "dunder"
 and molasses. Dunder is t^en from the Spanish word
 redundar, meaning overflow, and applied to the lees or
dregs of cane juice used in the fermentation of rum. The
word "rum" is an abbreviation of rumbullion, meaning
tumult or uproar—^not an inappropriate application!
North American Indians had their own name for the
drink—they called it "cootv tvootv," a sort of improve
ment on their customary war whoop.
 Remember the ditty sung by the pirate crew in Robert
Louis Stevenson's Treasure Island?
                "Yo ho ho and a bottle of rum!"
   Cuba holds the palm for producing the best rum, al
though staid old New England has made excellent rum
from imported blackstrap molasses since 1680, and Lou
isiana's sugar plantations today contribute their share of
excellent domestic brands. More than a century ago
Louisiana's rum masqueraded under the name of tafia.
   There's naught, no doubt, so much the spirit calms as rum and
true religion." Lard Byron's Don Juan, 1819.
                                                          Fifty-nine
Bacardi Cocktail
            1 teaspoon sugar
            1 lime—juice only
            1 jigger rum Bacardi
Mix in a barglass. Muddle the sugar and Ume jiucc thoroughly
before adding the rum. Fill with cracked ice. Shake weU and
then strain into a cocktail glass.
  You and I may argue a lot and get nowhere regarding
the proper pronunciation of the word Bacardi, but after
sampling this cocktail, there'll be no argument as to its
effect and authority. It is by far the best way to sewe
sugar cane rum, whether bottled in New England, Cuba,
Jamaica, Puerto Rico, or Louisiana.
  In making a Bacardi cocktail be sure to use lime, not
lemon, and put no grenadine or other flavored s^p into
the mixture. When you shake a Bacardi, frappc it long
and well, for it must be served very cold to get the de
licious flavor of the rumbullion.
   Bacardi rum received its name from the Bacardi family
 of Cuba, well-known distillers and bottlers at Santiago of
 this particular brand. The correct pronunciation is ha-
 car-di.


 Daiquiri Cocktail
             1 teaspoon grenadine sirup
              1 lime—juice only
              1 jigger rum
 Like the Bacardi, the Daiquiri should be well shaken; lime juice,
 not lemon, should be used to furnish the tang. The grenadine
 sweetens the cocktail and gives it color. Shake well with ice and
 strain into the serving glass.
   The Daiquiri, like the Bacardi, is a Cuban importation
 and is very popular m Havana as well as New Orleans.
 Sixty
Again like the Bacardi its name is truly Cuban, Daiquiri
being the name of a city in the southeastern part of that
famous island not very far from Santiago.
  The two cocktails are quite similar, the difference ly
ing in the inclusion or omission of the grenadine sirup.
Both are good. Daiquiri is pronounced Dah-\e-re6.


Frozen Daiquiri
            1 lime—^juicc only
            1 teaspoon sugar
            1 dash white maraschino liqueur
            1 jigger rum

Place the lime juice and sugar in an electric mixing cup, dash
on the white maraschino liqueur, and add the rum. Fill half
full of finely crushed ice (shaved ice won't do) and place cup
under the electric mixer. Let it whirr until the mixture is well
frapp^d . . . until it is practically a sherbet. Strain in a saucer-
shaped champagne glass using an ordinary kitchen wire strainer.
Shake from side to side and tap rim of the strainer with spoon
to force the fine icy particles through the mesh.

  During the good old summertime a new sort of cock
tail, with rum for its basis, has taken New Orleans by
storm—a sort of snow storm. If you have not met the
Frozen Daiquiri just picture a champagne glass filled
with snow, cold as Christmas, and as hard as the heart of
a traffic cop.
   You'll have to have something beside the old reliable
cocktail shaker to produce this one. It must be whirred to
its icy smoothness with an electric drink-mixer—^the kind
used in making a malted milk.
  It is also called "West Indies Cocktail."
                                                          Sixty-one
Cuban Presidente                                        >i'. ; ; /
            Vx jigger rum
            54 jigger French dry vermouth
             1 teaspoon grenadine sirup
              1 dash curagao
                     curacao
Rum first in the harglass, then the vermouth, Curasao, and sirup.
Put in the ice. Stir (never shake). After straining into the
serving glass, add a piece of orange peel.
  This is the drink to toast the Cuban presidente (who
ever he may be at the present moment). A heady salute
for a nation's head. It might be mentioned that some
prefer their presidente with grenadine only and without
the Curasao.

New OrBeons Presidente
            1 tablespoon grenadine sirup
            1 jigger rum
            1 tablespoon orange juice
Shake with ice, lots of it cracked fine, and strain into a cocktail
glass.


American Presidente
            1 pony rum                               •• '         •
            1 pony French dry vermouth                           "
            1 lemon—juice only                                   -<
            1 dash curagao
            1 dash grenadine sirup
Proceed as with the Cuban presidente and drop a maraschino
cherry into the cocktail glass before straining the mixture into it.
  Today several brands of rum, made from Louisiana
sugar cane molasses, are finding favor . . . even among
those who have long believed that rum, to be good, must
come from Cuba, Jamaica, or Puerto ^co.
Sixty-two
Grog
           2 ponies rum
             water

             ice

Pour the rum into an 8-ounce tumbler, add ice, and fill to the
brim with water. Stir. Drink.

  In the old days in Louisiana, especially in that section
settled by the British, Irish, and Scottish pioneers, the
tipple in high favor was called "grog." It was made of
the locally distilled tafia or rum, and was dispensed by
the British plantation owners of the Feliciana district as
a cheap yet potent beverage to slaves who worked the
cotton fields. Many references to the drink are to be
found in tattered documents written during the days of
the Spanish domination. It was set down in them as
"mezcla de argmrdicnte con agua."
  In 1753 the French of New Orleans knew rurn as a
drogue (a cheap or sorry commodity) and, while it was
known as tafia, it was also called guildive (divine fer
mentation), and eau de vie sucre, meaning "sugar
brandy".
  The name "Grog" was derived from "grogram, a
material of rough texture, ordinarily of camel's wool,
used in the making of cloaks. The designation came
about in this way: In 1740 Admiral Edward Vernon
liberally diluted with water the rum he served the sailors
aboard his frigate. It was the admiral's custom to wear a
grogram cloak in foul weather, and for this reason the
tars called him "Old Grog" behind his back. Forthwith
his tars derisively termed the weakened drink "grog,"
and the name has stuck through the centuries, as witness
"grog shop," likewise "groggy," indicating the unsteady
gait that follows a too-liberd sampling of spirits.
                                                   Sixty-three
Planter's Punch
             2 lumps of sugar
             1 dash Peychaud bitters
             1 lime—^juice only
             1 jigger water
             2 jiggers rum
The Planter's Punch calls for a tall glass. Squeeze the lime juice
on the sugar. Add the bitters, water, the two full jiggers of rum;
fill the glass with shaved or crushed ice. Frapp^ well with a long-
handled barspoon. Sift a little nutmeg on top or a dash of red
pepper if you don't mind the bite.
  The southern planter had something there! If this
man-sized drink were indeed part of a planter's life on
a Southern plantation, there was more to his routine than
cotton bolls, sugar cane, slaves, and offspring. As we have
all along contended, good old sugar cane molasses rum
was the planter's stand-by, notwithstanding traditional
tales of the huge consumption of Monongahela red
whiskey.


Jamaican Planters' Punch
             1 part lime juice
             2 parts sugar
             3 parts Jamaica rum
             4 parts water and ice
  A doggerel for this recipe runs: "One of sour, two of
sweet, three of strong, and four of weak," thus making
it easy to keep the proportions in mind. This is Planters'
Punch as it is made in Kingston, Jamaica, British West
Indies, where the rum is manufactured. For the regula
tion Planters' Punch a dash of Peychaud bitters must be
added. Shake and serve very cold.
Sixty-four
Mississippi Planter's Punch                      , HiV p
             1 tablespoon sugar
             1 lemon—juice only
            Vz jigger rum
            /4 jigger Bourbon whiskey
             1 jigger cognac brandy
Dissolve the sugar with a little water in a mixing glass. Add the
lemon juice, then the rum, Bourbon, and brandy. Fill with fine
ice, clap on the shaker, and go to work. When well frapped pour
into a long thin glass. Decorate with fruit (if you want to be
swanky) and serve with a straw.
  If this cooler doesn't make a Mississippi cotton planter
forget about the boll weevil, charbon, and high water,
give up trying to make him forget. All that is lacking
in the recipe is a shady gallery, a rocking chair, and a
palmetto fan.

Tangipohoo Planter's Punch
            1/3 pineapple juice
            1/3 orange juice
            1/3 lime or lemon juice
              1 teaspoon grenadine sirup
              2 jiggers rum
After mixing and sweetening to taste with the grenadine, add the
fruit juice, the two jiggers of rum, and put plenty of ice in the
tall glass. Jiggle with the barspoon until well frapped.
  "Aw, nertz!" said a friend of mine who likes to furnish
his inner man with certain powerful potables several
times a day, "the dope you wrote on the opposite page
ain't a Planter's Punch! Leastwise," he hedged, "it ain't
what we folks up in Tangipahoa call a Planter's Punch.
  As a result of this criticism I cajoled from him the
above recipe. Ever notice how all recipes for Planter's
punches call for two jiggers, and never one, of rum?
That, you'll agree, is a redeeming feature. So don't be
thrifty with the oh-be-joyful when you concoct a punch
by this or any other recipe.
                                                        Sixty-five
Viva Villa
            1 lime—juice and pulp
            1'scant spoonful sugar
            1 generous jigger tequila
Dissolve sugar in a little water. Squeeze on the juice of a green
lime and drop in the pulp of half the lime. Next the jigger of
tequila and fill to the brim with finely cracked ice. Jiggle with
the spoon until well frapp^d. A pinch of salt brings on the flavor.
Tequila is a native Mexican liquor distilled from the
Century plant, which also supplies the Mexicanos with
mescal, another powerful potable. The drink gets its
name from the Tequila district where the Century plants
(Agave tequilana) are cultivated for the fermented juices
they yield. Tequila is practically colorless—but don't let
that fool you.
  All you need to make this drink perfect is a sombrero
and a senorita. Omit the sombrero if necessary, but don't
leave out the senorita!

Rum Runner
            1 jigger rum
            1 spoon sugar
            2 ponies pineapple juice (unsweetened)
            1 lime—juice only
            1 dash Peychaud bitters
Dissolve the sugar in the unsweetened pineapple juice. Squeeze
in the juice of a lime (lemon will answer but it doesn't give quite
the flavor a lime does). Then the bitters and muddle well. The
jigger of rum is added. You may stir this drink with several
lumps of ice but shaking improves it and the white of an egg
gives it added smoothness.

  During the unlucky thirteen years that Prohibition
darkened the land, the rum runner was the only little
ray of sunshine on an otherwise sombre horizon. What
Sixty-six
 more appropriate than a demon rum drink be named for
 this angel of mercy?
   The hostess who strives to give her guests something
 deliciously different can do no better than fix upon a
 Rum Runner. But she must be prepared for many re
 peats. They always come back for more.
   If you want a Pilgrim's Progress—substitute grapefruit
 juice for the pineapple juice. Then you'll know why the
 Pilgrim fathers came over on the Mayflower, landed on
 Plymouth Rock, and entered into the business of dis
 tilling rum from molasses. It was to provide our an
 cestors with the Spirit of '76.

 Jean Laffite Cocktail
            1 teaspoon sugar
            2 dashes absinthe substitute
            2 dashes curagao
            1 jigger rum
            1 egg yolk
Mix in a barglass. The absinthe goes on the sugar, then the
Curasao. Muddle. Add the jigger of rum and drop in the egg
yolk. Clap on shaker and go to it. Strain into a chilled cocktail
glass.
  Let us hope that when Jean Lafiite, the bold, bad, Ba-
rataria buccaneer, swaggered up and down the narrow
banquettes of rue Royale he had something like the above
m mind. Hardly, however, as it was years post-dating the
LaflSte regime before ahsynthe cast its greenish glow
over Crescent City bars, and how it desolates us to think
of Jean, brother Pierre, Dominique You, Rene Beluche
and the balance of the doughty crew of smugglers going
thirsty for the lack of an Absinthe House.
  Whether or not Jean Laffite ever sampled the cocktail
                                                      Sixty-seven
now bearing his name is open to violent debate. We think
he did not,'but we often meditate on the possible change
in Louisiana history had he done so. Drink enough Jean
Laffites and you'll be all set to jump into a pirogue and
paddle up the bayou all by yourself.
  Legend tells us that the favorite tipple of the Laffites
and others of their ilk was a noggin or two, or three, of a
distinctive and potent beverage called le petit goyave,
brewed from the fermented juice of the fruit of the
aguava or century plant and toting the kick of an army
mule. In Mexico the same liquor is called pulque. It was
served at the CafS des RifugUs in Saint Philippe street,
a tavern where was ever assembled a motley crew of
swiggers—colons de Saint-Domingue, West Indian sea
men, rSvolutionnaires, filibusters, and Kentucky flatboat-
men.

   Host Jean Baptiste Thiot mixed another curious drink
which he called "The Pig and Whistle." Years later, in
1835, when Thiot deserted the St. Philip street location
and opened a new eating and drinking tavern in Old
Levee (Decatur) street opposite the French Market, he
 called the new tavern after his famed mixed drink—"The
 Pig & Whistle."




                                                     •tri."
                                                     yli'tif
                                                     ;1W

 Sixty-eight
        "She ordered coffee, and afterwards chasse-cafe." 1800.

                          Pousse Cafe
  There are two schools of thought regarding the nam
ing and spelling of a Pousse Caf^ but only one regarding
its goodness. Properly made it becomes a dru^ with
more rings than an old-fashioned Barnum &Bailey cir
cus. Here we have a post-prandial drink made of layers
of variously colored cordials—the heaviest poured first
into the serving glass and the following layers gently and
skillfully achieved one ring at a time with the aid of a
spoon. The lightest liqueur, usually cognac, is poured on
last.
  The name Pousse cafS is said to have been derived from
chasse cafS, literally "chase coffee" or a "coffee chaser," a
potion of liquor taken after a meal ostensibly to remove
the taste of coffee, tobacco, or what have you. The term,
usually shortened to chasse, was applied as a rule to
brandy, crime de menthe, or like cordials, but in time
became definitely attached to the ringed drink of various
cordials, now known as Pousse cafe.
   For another (and probably more authentic) version:
pouce, French for "inch" or "thumb," indicates that in
the early days of the original concocting of the drink, an
inch or pouce of red sirup was first poured in the glass;
then a pouce of Curasao, then a pouce of chartreuse, and
so on to the final pouce of brandy that topped it. Thus it
became a pouce cafi or "inch" drink, until finally the
word pouce was corrupted into pousse, a French word
with an entirely different meaning.
"So one glass of cognac neat, as a chasse (to more things than
                             claret)." 1857.

                                                            Sixty-nine
 Pousse Cafe              •
             1/6 red raspberry sirup
                                     •          .va a.
                                                                     1
             1/6 pink maraschino sirup
             1/6 green cr^me de menthe
             1/6 orange curagao
             1/6 yellow chartreuse
            1/6"topaz cognac brandy
 Care and skill are essential in the making. Use a short, trans
 parent round glass and put in each cordial separately, also very,
 very slowly so as to eliminate blending. The heaviest of the
 sirups is poured in first to form the bottom ring. Ease in with
a spoon, so that the liquid will not fall with force enough to
mx with the preceding ring. The last or top ring is of cognac.
When completed the drink will be composed of six different rings,
each complete in itself. Lovely!                                 '

Sanfini's Old New Orleans Pousse Cafe
            1/4 cognac brandy
            1/4 maraschino sirup
            1/4 Curasao
            1/4 Cuban rum
Proceed as above, but watch your step. The main difficulty will
         gently layering a heavy sirup on top of the lower ring
of brandy, which in usual recipes, is fhe top or finishing ring.
  This is the drink that was vogue in New Orleans in
1852 when Joseph Santini opened his "The Jewel of the
South" saloon in Gravier street opposite the side entrance
of the old and fashionable Saint Charles Hotel. It is said
to be the first pousse cajS with both brandy and rum.

Triple Pousse Cafe
            1/3 Curasao
            1/3 chartreuse
            1/3 cognac brandy
  Easily made, so it is suggested that the amateur mixer
Seventy
try his hand on this one before experimenting with the
multiple-ringed kinds. It has all the delights of the more
intricate pousse cafSs.
Cuban Rainbow Pousse Cafe
            1/8 grenadine sirup
            1/8 anisette
            1/8 abricotine, apricot brandy, or apry
            1/8 cr^me de menthe
            1/8 orange cura9ao
            1/8 yellow chartreuse
            1/8 green chartreuse
            1/8 Cuban rum
The preparation of this pousse cafS is the same as given in the
recipes. Note, however, that this rainbow of liqueurs calls for a
ring of rum to top it (brandy may be substituted). Set afire with
a match and the rainbow will be a blaze of color.
 This is the Pousse caf6 that Sloppy Joe of Havana,
Cuba, serves customers at his famous bar, a rendezvous
for convivial New Orleanians and other travelers.

Tchoupifoulas Street Guzzle
            1 split ginger beer
            1 jigger Cuban type rum
Ginger beer is not to be had these days, but ginger ale will do
as well. Mix with ice.
  Guzzle is a somewhat inelegant word meaning to
drink immoderately or frequently. Prior to the Civil
War days the Iron Horse tavern was famed for its
guzzle. As it increased in popularity along a certain
New Orleans street it acquired the name of that street
and became known as the Tchoupitoulas Street Guzzle.
Tchoupitoulas (pronounced Chop-a-too'-las) was the
name of an ancient Indian tribe that had its village in
what is now the upper part of New Orleans. Just what
sort of fire-water was their favorite guzzle history saith
not.

                                                      Seventy-one
     "Buy any brand-wine, buy any brand-wine?" London
                       street cry, 1622

                    Brandy Drinks
  The name brandy comes from Old Dutch Brandtvtjn,
meaning "burnt (i.e. distilled) wine," and to the end of
the 17th century the old original form, "brandy-wine"
was used. Properly, brandy is an ardent spirit distilled
from wine, although similar liquors distilled from fer
mented juice of peaches, cherries, apples, or other fruits,
are also called brandies . . . such as peach brandy.
  Genuine cognac is recognized as the finest of brandies
and was called cognac from the fact that a superior
brandy is produced at or near the town of Cognac in the
Charente region of France, center of a famous grape
growing territory. For the same reason brandy is better
known today as cognac in its native land than by its ori
ginal French name of eau-de-vie. In the United States it
is usually called "cognac brandy."
   While the term cognac is loosely applied to any French
brandy, it should be borne in mind that all brandy is
not cognac. Among the better known cognacs are those
of Martell, established in 1715, and that produced by the
firm of James Hennessy, whose bottles carry the familiar
"three-star" designation. In 1765 the original James Hen
nessy, an Irish adventurer, offered his sword in service
to the French king, and during his fighting days was
stationed in the Charente valley where he became en
amored of the excellent brandy there produced. When
swords were sheathed, Hennessy settled in this vineyard
country and became a grape-grower, a brandy-distiller,
and a cognac-bottler.
"I was entertained, tvith Kisses fine, and Brandy Wine." 1719.
Seventy-two
Cafe Royale
  In New Orleans a certain coffee drink is often errone
ously called a pousse cafS. It is in reality a CafS Royale
or Caf^ Real, nothing more or less than black coffee in a
demi tasse with cognac brandy floated on top.
   It should not be called a chasse cafS because basically
it is coffee itself, and you can't chase coffee with coffee.
The Cafe Royale should not be confused with that other
famous New Orleans' after-dinner drink, CafSBrMot, the
recipe for which will be found on the next page.

Orange Brulof
           1 orange
           1 f)ony cognac brandy
           1 lump sugar
  Take an orange and lightly slit the peel horizontally
through the middle, then turn the rind back and upward
to form a cup. Repeat with the other half of rind, re
versing the process to form a base. Be careful not to dis
engage the peel from either end of the orange, and leave
the stripped orange pulp intact for the center standard
of your natural goblet.
  In the upper part of the orange rind or cup place a
lump of sugar, then pour in the pony of brandy. Set off
with a match and stir while the sugar is dissolving in the
blue fkme.
  Preparing this natural container takes practice and
deftness, and the idea of burning the brandy in the
orange rind is for the sake of the flavor and oil contained
in the peel, besides making a picture that charms with its
novelty. "The fruit of the orange is delightful to eat after
the brandy has been burned and the drink quaffed.
                                                Seventy-three
Cafe Brulot                                                 :r*..

            1 cup cognac brandy                              •li
           45 pieces loaf sugar
           50 whole cloves
             3 pieces stick cinnamon broken in bits
            54 orange peel cut thin
             1 small piece lemon peel cut thin
             1 quart strong New Orleans dripped coffee
Combine the ingredients in advance. In a briilot bowl pour a cup
(54 pint) of cognac brandy. Add the sugar, cloves, stick of cin
namon broken in bits, thinly cut orange peel, and sliced lemon
rind. The mixture should be set to steep for at least six hours
in advance of serving time to allow the brandy, spices, and citrus
oils to blend. The coffee is prepared separately and is not mixed
with the spiced brandy until serving dme. Will serve 20 guests.
  A special brMot equipment is required if you are to
burn cafe brMot successfvally. This equipment consists of
a specially manufactured bowl of silver on copper, a cir
cular tray, and a long-handled ladle, all of the same metal
known as Sheffield. Don't use your wife's silver fruit
dish, even though it may resemble a brMot bowl in shape
and appearance. We know a man who did this in the ab
sence of the little woman, and rich old Aunt Hattie's
wedding gift phi^ted into the shape of Aunt Hattie in
fewer minutes than it takes to tell. We hesitate to speak
of the fiery aftermath when the storm-and-strife returned.
  Put the brandy mixture in the bowl, then pour a small
portion of alcohol into the circular tray, just enough to
sparingly cover the base of the bowl. The dripped coffee,
prepared in advance, is brought to the table steaming
hot. All lights in the room are extinguished to accent the
brulot flames; the alcohol in the tray is touched off with
a match and allowed to burn until the contents of the
bowl are heated. Dip up a little of the mixture with the
ladle and hold in the flame rising from the tray, then
dip ladle in the mixture to hurry the process of ignition.
Seventy-four
 Stir, lifting the ladle high in the air. A ribbon of golden-
 blue flame follows the motion, and is a sight to goggle
 the eyes of the uninitiate. Allow to burn only a few
 moments as too much bturning uses up the alcoholic con
 tent. Pour in the coffee, slowly and lovingly.
   Serve in after-dinner coffee cups. This recipe makes
 enough to thrill 20 coffee connoisseurs.
   Do not attempt to make brMot with ordinary coffee.
 Boiled or percolator coffee will not answer. What is
known as French or New Orleans dripped coffee must
be used and made very strong. Most New Orleans folk
prefer chicory in their coffee; which gives a richer color
and heavier flavor. Therefore, for brMot use a coffee-and-
chicory brand, such as Luzianne, Union, Chase and San-
born Louisiana Roast, French Market, Morning Joy, etc.
  Put coffee in upper receptacle of a drip coffee pot. Just
enough boiling water is poured on to moisten and swell
the grains. Add boiling water, a spoonful or two at a
time, and repeat at intervals until the quantity desired
has "dripped" to thelower container ofthe coffee pot. To
keep contents hot until needed, the pot may be set in a
pan of simmering water.
  Caf6 brMot (pronounced ca-fay' broo'lo) takes its name
from two French words—cafe, or "coffee," and brMot,
which has dual meanings . . . "highly seasoned" and "in
cendiary or burning." Both fit the brMot perfectly. In
other words, it is "burnt spiced coffee."
  Dorothy Dix, who often stirs a brMot at the home of
this writer, calls the delectable brew "liquid fruit cake."




                                                  Seventy-five
Antoine Special
            154 jiggers Dubonnet wine
            1J4 jiggers French vermouth
The Dubonnet is poured into a wine or flip glass, and the ver
mouth skillfully "floated" on—not mixed. This appetizer is best
without the addition of bitters or even ice.   The flavor of the
Dubonnet is improved by chilling—but avoid diluting with ice
cubes.

  This is the aperitif featured by Antoine's, oldest and
most celebrated French restaurant in New Orleans. It
was Jules Alciatore, son of Antoine Alciatore founder of
the famous rendezvous of gourmets, who originated this
inspiring before-dinner appetizer. Simple to make—easy
to take . . . there your are; one whiff of this rhythmic
fluid makes poets of us all.
   Jules, like his illustrious sire, has passed on to his well-
deserved reward. But when you dine at this St. Louis
street shrine to Epicurus you will flatter the house by
specifying Antoine Special as your appetizer.

Si-irrup Cup
               1 lump sugar
             Yz lemon—juice only
              1 jigger cherry hrandy
              1 jigger cognac brandy
              1 maraschino cherry
When you have dissolved the sugar in a little water add the lemon
juice, and the two brandies. Stir with ice and strain into a cock
tail glass. Drop in the cherry.
  It occurs to us that in a day when the motorcars have
outstripped horseflesh, "runningboard" cocktail would be
a more suitable name for this delectable parting cup.
   The above recipe compounds a farewell drink potent
 enough to make you fancy yourself on a horse, feet in
 Seventy-six
stirrups, yelling "giddy-yap," and ready to go places and
do things. Origin has been attributed to George Wash
ington. If true it may be the reason the father of our
country departed on such frequent trips from Mount
Vernon. Another clue—there's a cherry in it!
  Father, mother, sister, brother we cannot tell a lie—this
is a swell drink. No wonder G.W^. was first in the hearts
of his countrymen.


Ambrosia
      1 jigger cognac brandy
           1 jigger applejack
           1 dash Cointreau
           1 lemon—juice only
             champagne
Mix all hut the champagne and pour into a thin 6-ouncc glass.
The mixture will half fill the glass. Pour in the champagne to
the hrim. Drink while sparkling.
  Ambrosia is popularly supposed to have been the drink
concocted by the Greek gods on Mount Olympus, and
was calculated to put sparkle in Grecian ladies eyes and
hair on Grecian gentlemen's chests. At Arnaud's, one of
the better French restaurants in New Orleans'           Vieux
CarrS, a modern version of the Mount Olympus is served.
We have it from the proprietor, Arnaud Cazenave
("Count Arnaud" to his familiars) that the ambrosia he
brews is one the lovely Hebe might well have served
Juno, Jupiter, Ganymede, and the balance of the Olym
pus crowd. We who have sampled it agree.
  (Note by our dietetics editor: Ambrosia was the food
partaken of by the high gods of Olympus. Nectar was
the dnn\^ No matter—ambrosia or nectar—^it's all one
at the incomparable Arnaud's.
                                                  Seventy-seven
     A Goodly Countrey . . . abounding with wild Date trees , . .
         whence they draw a liquor called Tarrie." 1609.


            Toddies, Clings, and Flips
   While we apply the name Toddy to that drink in
 which we mix whiskey, gin, rum, or brandy with a little
- sugared water, the original toddy was a far different
  drink from that which we now imbibe under the same
 name.


   "Toddy" originally was the fermented sap obtained
 from the incised spathes of various species of palms,
 especially the wild date palm, and used as a beverage in
 tropical countries. A Hindustani word, tart in the begin
 ning, it later became tarrie, then tary, terry, tadie, taddy,
 toddey, toddie and, finally as we know it today, toddy.
   Toddy is just another name for Sling, or vice versa.
 For example a Hot Whiskey Sling calls for a lump of
 sugar in a half-glassful of boiling water, a jigger of
 whiskey, a small piece of lemon peel and a grating of
 nutmeg. Now if you want a Hot Whiskey Toddy, du
 plicate the above and omit the nutmeg.
   Some like'em hot, some like'em cold, some like'em
 with gin, some with brandy, some with Scotch. But in
 any case the addition or omission of nutmeg makes the
 difference between toddy and sling.
   The Kentucky Toddy is composed of a lump of sugar,
a little water, a twist of lemon peel, a full jigger of Bour
bon, a lump of ice, and a lot of stirring.
   "Toddy, originally the juice of the cocoa tree and afterwards
t^rn, water, sugar, and nutmeg." 1788.
Seventy-eight
r   Flips
      The Flip was at one time a hot drink served in an
    earthenware mug, much favored in England and Amer
    ica before tea and coffee came into common use.       The
    drink was composed of ale, egg, nutmeg, sugar, ginger,
    and brandy or rum. It was made sizzling hot by heating
    an iron loggerhead, or flip-dog, in the fire until it was
    red-hot and thrusting the heated end into the mug of
    mixed liquor, whence a sound like "Sz-z-z-t!" resulted,
    and a vapor like heaven arose.

      The flips of today have gone cold, and the flip-dog re
    mains chilled and neglected by the fireplace, its solitary
    use now to poke the burning logs. Ice has taken the
    place of heat in the various concoctions carrying the anci
    ent name. Some of these, relics of a past, are given be
    low.

       Ale Flip: Beat up an egg with a half-teaspoon of sugar,
    fill the glass with ale, mix well with a spoon and grate
    nutmeg on top.

      Brandy Flip: Fill the glass half-full with crushed ice.
    Put in one egg, one jigger brandy, a teaspoon of sugar.
    Beat until it froths and grate nutmeg on top.
       In similar manner is made a Rum Flip, a Gin Flip, a
    Sherry Flip, or a Whiskey Flip. A Yankee Flip has a
    jigger of apple brandy added to the egg and sugar. All
    must be topped with grated nutmeg.




                                                   Seventy-nine
    "The first craving of an American in the mornings is for ardent
Spirits mixed with sugar, mint, or some other hot herb, which are
called slings." 1807.
                            Slings
  A Sling, so we are told by long-ago writers, is "an
American drink composed of brandy, rum, or other
spirit, and water, sweetened and flavored," and had noth
ing to do with "the slings and arrows of outrageous for
tune," so feelingly bespoken by Hamlet in his morose
soliloquy.
  As long ago as 1788 a certain shipwrecked scribe re
corded that he and his mates found "a case-bottle filled
with Holland's [gin], of which each of us took a sling."
This indicates the word originally had the same mean
ing as "draught," "pull," or "swig," as Americans de
scribe the swigging of a healthy mouthful from a jug.
   A Bitter Sling, quite a favorite in the old days as an
electioneering potion, was described in 1806 thus: "a
stimulating liquor composed of spirits of any kind, sugar,
water, and bitters."
Singapore Sling
            V2 jigger dry gin
            54 jigger apricot brandy
            54 jigger cherry brandy
            54 lime—juice only
                seltzer water
To sling this drink you must first provide yourself with a highball
glass nearly filled with cracked ice. In it squeeze the juice of
a lime, then add the gin, cherry brandy, bencdictine, and all that
can go in of seltzer water. Frappe with a spoon, or in a shaker.
Garnish with fruit.
  This is a drink that makes you itch to travel—or any
way step out. In olden times a drink was slung from
one mug to another in mixing, and that's how the Sling
derived its name. The word itself came from the Low
German slingen, which means to swallow.
 Here's slinging at you.
Eighty
r
     Sloe Gin Singapore Sling
                    1 jigger sloe gin
                  1/2 jigger dry gin
                  1/2 jigger apricot brandy
                  1/2 jigger cherry brandy
                  1/2 lime—juice only
                   1 teaspoon sugar
    Mix in a 12-ounce highball glass. First the sugar, then the lime
    juice, the two brandies, the two gins. Stir, fill two-thirds with
    cracked ice, and fill to the brim with seltzer. Decorate with a
    slice of orange, a slice of pineapple, and a cherry.

    Stone Fence
                  1                 whiskey
                      sweet cider
                  3 lumps ice
    Pour the jigger of whiskey in a tall glass, drop in the three lumps
    or cubes of ice and fill to the brim with the unfermented cider.
    All left to do is to stir and sip.
      Washington Irving, in his Diedrich Knickerbocker's
    History of Netv Yor\, claimed the Dutch-Americans
    were inventors of "sherry-cobbler" and "stone-face," and
    in 1809 Irving also claimed that the original settlers of
    New Amsterdam were responsible for the naming of the
    "cocktail."
      Why whiskey and sweet cider, joined in holy wetlock
    should figure under so unemotional a name as "stone-
    fence" is matter for deliberation. One punster quips:
    "Drink enough and you'll overcome all obstacles and
    never take offense."
      Originally the name "stone-fence" was applied to an
    applejack and sweet cider combination, and those in the
    know will tell you that as sweet cider ferments it de
    velops into applejack.
      However it may develop one thing is certain—it's one
    of the hard liquors that is powerfully easy to take.
                                                           Eighty-one
       "A glass of swizzle, the most salubrius beveragein
                       hot weather." 1843.

                          Swizzle
  The name Swizzle has been applied to variously com
pounded drinks, and while it is said the origin of the
word is unknown it appears to be just another way of
pronouncing Switchel, a drink made of molasses and
water, sometime with the addition of vinegar, gin, and
rum. Also applied to strong drinks sweetened and
flavored with bitters.
  To make a Swizzle a swizzle-stick is necessary—a
round wooden stick or dowel with swollen bottom end
from which protrude five smaller sticks like the spokes
of a wheel. The swizzle-stick is rotated rapidly between
the palms to mix the drink thoroughly. A Swizzle,
according to legend, is a liquid institution of Demerara,
British Guiana, and became quite popular in the West In
dies before it made its appearance in Old New Orleans.
There were many references to the drink over a century
ago, such as "The boys finished the evening with some
fine grub, swizzle, and singing." (1813), and a British
traveler. Lady Brassy, more intrigued with the way the
drink was concocted with a swizzle-stick than with the
drink itself, wrote in 1885: "I mean to take home some
'swizzle-sticks.' They are cut from some kind of creeper,
close to a joint, where four or five shoots branch out at
right angles, so as to produce a star-like circle. The whole
is mixed with powdered ice, and stirred or 'swizzled' until
it froths well."
  As early as 1800 this same drink was known as Swit
chel, an Englishman noting that "the dauntless Yankees
still drank their switchell," so that derivation of stvizzel
from stvitchel seems plain.
  "We were never 'groggy', 'intoxicated', 'swizzled', or 'tight',
                         but once." 1843.
Eighty-two
 Swizzle
              1 wineglass rum
              1 tablespoon "New Orleans" molasses
              1 pony water
            2-3 dashes Peychaud bitters
Mix in a barglass, swizzle with a swizzle-stick, add ice, swizzle
again. Strain into a serving glass.
   This is the summer swizzle; in the wintertime piping
hot water is added to the rum and molasses.                  Rotate
with the swizzle-stick, and grate a little nutmeg on top.
Serve the hot drink in the mixing glass.
Sangaree
            Yi teaspoon sugar
             1 jigger port wine
               nutmeg
Mix the sugar with the port wine before filling the mixing glass
nearly full of fine ice. Stir vigorously, or put the mixture in a
shaker. Strain into a thin glass and grate a litde nutmeg on top.
  While the original recipe for Sangaree calls for port
wine, it is sometimes made with brandy, sherry, gin, or
even ale. The drink is a tropical one and because of its
color derives its name from the French sang, meaning
"blood." We are also told the name "sangaree" fits any
drink, so long as it's red, and made of wine and
sweetened water, then spiced and iced. The drink is an
old-fashioned one and was very popular as a guest re
freshment in old Creole davs.


                                                     .   ^   • i




                                                    Eighty-three
  "At Nerule is made the best Arach or Nepa de Goa, with
which the English on this Coast make that enervating Liquor
called Paunch {which is Indostan for Five) from Five In
gredients." 1672.

                           Punches
  Punch is the.ideal beverage to serve at large gatherings
and many are the kinds from which to choose when you
are preparing to entertain in a big way.
  The Punch Bowl, or Bowl O'Punch, as our English
cousins call it, has long been a feature of Christmas and
holiday festivities. The word punch comes from India,
and is derived from the Hindu panch, meaning five, the
original beverage being composed of five ingredients,
viz.: spirits, water or milk, lemon, sugar, spice or cordial.
The punch field is covered by arrack, brandy, claret, gin,
milk, rum, tea, whiskey, wine, and fruit punch. The
drink is usuallv qualified by the name of the principal
ingredient, as, for example, whiskey punch.

St. Charles Punch
                 1 teaspoon sugar
                 1 lemon—juice only
                 1 jigger port wine
                 1 pony cognac brandy
               1/3 teaspoon curagao
Dissolve the sugar with a little water in a mixing glass. Add
the lemon juice, the port wine, the cognac, and last the curagao.
Fill the glass with fine ice and jiggle with the barspoon. Pour
into a long thin glass, garnish with fruit, and serve with a straw.
   Years ago this was a famed punch very much in de
 mand at the celebrated St. Charles Hotel bar. Don't
 omit the straw; this drink demands long and deliberate
 sipping for consummate enjoyment.
 Eighty-four
Orgeat Punch
            54 jigger orgeat sirup
             1 lemon—^juice only
            54 lime—juice only
             1 jigger rye whiskey
             1 dash orange bitters
             1 pony port wine
Mix all but the port in the order named in a tall 12-ounce glass.
Fill wtih cracked ice to a finger-width of the top. Jiggle with a
spoon until well frapped. Then float on top the pony of port
wine . . . do not stir.
  Says Sam Guarino, chief bartender at the Hotel Roose
velt bar, \vho originated this drink delight, "The Orgeat
Punch has tw^o distinct flavors which register separately
when trickling down your throat. First you taste the
Oporto, then you get the second rich taste of the orgeat-
flavored whiskey mixture."
  Orgeat sirup, or sirop d'orgeat, is made from the milk
of almonds and has long been a favorite flavoring and
sweetening liqueur among the Creoles of New Orleans.
It is not used as much today as in the past, but drink-
mixers who like something different should cultivate its
acquaintance again.
Arrack Punch
            1 jigger date arrack
            2 teaspoons bar sugar
            2 dashes lemon juice
Dissolve the sugar in a little water, add the lemon juice, then the
arrack; fill the glass nearly full with shaved ice, and shake well.
Strain into a glass and serve with a straw.
   Arrack is the fermented juice of the date palm, and
is a name that was applied in Eastern countries to any
spirituous liquor of native manufacture, especially ones
distilled from the fermented sap of the coco-palm, or
from rice and sugar fermented with cocoanut juice. Later
                                                        Eighty-five
the arrack imported from Batavia and Japan was con
sidered'superior in concocting the punch, at which time
the name arrack was shortened to "Rack."
  Arrack punch was a favorite tipple in the New Or
leans of the splendid idle 40's when flourished W. J.
Logan's "Pelican" coffee-house "at Gravier and Union in
the rear of Clapp's Church," as he always advertised his
place. The Pelican's specialties were Arrack Punch and
Pineapple Julep, both mixed in huge bowls and prepared
fresh every day. As a punch it bears no resemblance
to the mixtures we now call by that name, and the Pine
apple Julep of Host Logan came nearer being a punch
than the drink designated today as julep.

Pineapple Julep
             1 quart sparkling Moselle wine
             2 jiggers dry gin
             2 jiggers maraschino sirup
             2 jiggers raspberry sirup
             2 oranges—^juice only
               sugar to taste
               slices pineapple
This punch, for it is not really a julep according to our modern
acceptation of the term julep, should be prepared by placing a
large piece of ice in a punch bowl and pouring on the mixture
then ladling it over the ice long enough to melt some of the ice
and chill the whole. The pineapple should be the fresh fruit, if
possible, and sliced over the bowl. Cherries from the maraschino
bottle, strawberries, and other fruits in season can be added. This
recipe makes enough for six servings.
  In the days of old, the days of gold, and the days of
'49, when embryonic miners flocked through New Or
leans on their way to the newly-discovered California
gold fields, these same would-be miners found many
Eighty-six
places in the Crescent City to wet their whistles. One
popular oasis was Logan's "Pelican CoflFee-house," told
of in the foregoing page, where the Arrack Punch and
Pineapple Julep were counted the best in town.

Louisiana Party Punch
            1 quart rum
            1 pint lemon juice
            1 pint strong tea
            2 pints carbonated water
           Yz pound granulated sugar
   This recipe makes one gallon of punch—sufficient for
12 guests, depending upon capacity. Make the tea quite
strong and allow it to cool. Mix the ingredients and
pour into a gallon jug the day before serving as this will
promote blending and enhance the flavor and bouquet
of the punch. Have it well chilled by placing the jug
in the ice box.

  When party time arrives put a large piece of ice in
the punch bowl with slices of orange and lemon and
other fruits in season. Serve to your guests in regulation
5-ounce punch cups.




                                               Eighty-seven
   "When the steward cometh in at the hall doore with the
wassell, he must crie three tymes, Wassell, Wassell, Wassell."
1494.
                The Wassail Bowl
  The Wassail Bowl contained liquor in which healths
were' drunk in the long ago, the favorite content being
the spiced ale used in Christmas eve and Twelfth-night
celebrations. The custom of brewing a Wassail bowl
has fallen into disuse and is revived only rarely.
  The word "Wassail" used of old when presenting a
cup of wine, or drinking a comrade's health, carried the
same meaning as "hail" and "farewell." The reply to
the salutation "Wassail," when presenting the bowl of
wine, was "Drink-hail," in accepting it.
  Sang Sir Walter Scott in his Lay of the Last Minstrel
"The blithesome signs of wassel gay, Decay'd not with
the dying day."
Wassail Bowl
             2 baked apples
             2 tablespoons fine sugar
             1 tablespoon allspice
             1 lemon, juice and peel
             1 quart hot ale
             1 pint warm sherry
To make the Wassail Bowl bake two apples and cut in small
pieces. Add the sugar, the allspice, the lemon, the heated ale,
and warm sherry. Mix well, mashing with a muddler, heat and
serve hot.
  The Wassail Bowl is as significant of Christmas as is
St. Nicholas himself. After sampling, who shall say
there ain't no Santa Claus? Perhaps, indeed, it was the
original Wassail Bowl that inspired this loveliest myth
of childhood, when out of good fellowship engendered
by the mellowing Christmas brew, the spirit of Christ
mas took shape in the hearts of men.
  Hail the Wassail Bowl!           We know there's a Santa
Claus!
Eighty-eight                                                     •
   "A bottle of strong beer tvch in this countrey [Norfolli] they
call 'nog'." 1693.


                          Eggnogs
  As long ago as in the period when Shakppeare wrote
his plays we find chronicled: "Nog is a kind of strong
beer brewed in East Anglia." In writings two hundred
years later we find records of such a brew as egg-nog
in which "the white and yolk of eggs are stirred with
hot beer, cider, wine, or spirits."
   In 1825 New Yorkers read in a newspaper called
Brother Jonathan, that the "egg-nog had gone about
rather freely" at a certain party. A score of years later
A. O. Hall, stopping at the old St. Charles Hotel while in
the Crescent City gathering material for his Manhattaner
in New Orleans, popular book of its day, "trembled to
rhinlf of the juleps, and punches, and nogs, and soups,
consumed in the dining-room of that famed hostelry.
  Much liquor has flowed over the bars since Nog was
originally described as an ale brewed in East Anglia,
now modern Norfolk and Suffolk in England. Every
egg-nog recipe today calls for milk or cream, none for
ale or hot beer. Time changes everything. Blessed be
time for some of the changes it makes in our cups of
cheer!

   Following are recipes for the best eggnogs we have
ever tasted.



    The sailor toasts thy charms in flip and grog; The Norwich
 Weaver drinks thee deep in Nog. 1774.
                                                       Eighty-nine
 Sidoux's Holiday Eggnog
             6 eggs
             6 tablespoons powdered sugar
             1 cup granulated sugar
            Vi pint brandy
            /4 pint rum
             2 pints heavy whipping cream
First beat the egg yolks well, add the cup of granulated sugar
sowly, and then just enough of the cream to give the mixture a
pde lemon color. Next add the hrandy and rum, beating hard
         liquors are poured in. Whip the remaining cream and
^ j fold—do
and f      whip
             not the egg whites
                  beat—into     dry and add the powdered sugar
                            the mixture.
   The Creoles have "little" names for the people and
things tfiey love, ' Sidoux (pronounced See-doo, and
meaning so sweet"), is a love name bestowed upon a
little girl we knew. She isn't a little girl any longer.
She has grown up and developed into the World's Num
ber One cheer dispenser and above is her prescription
for speeding up holiday merriment. It is as sweet as her
name and a lot less innocent.
   Sidoux tells us this Christmas mixture will keep in the
ice box for many days. (Note by author: only under
lock and key.)

Whiskey Eggnog
            1 jigger whiskey
            1 raw egg
            1 cup thin cream
            1 spoon sugar
Mix in barglass, pour in shaker half-filled with fine ice and shake
well. Strain in a thin glass and grate nutmeg on top. Brandy
or rum can take the place of whiskey.
   There you have the eggnog in its simplest composi
tion—but good to the last drop. Try it for proof.
Ninety
  As we have warned you, there are many recipes for
genuine nogs brewed in the modern manner—a far cry
from the ale and cider styles in vogue in Merrie England
a century or two ago.


Tom And Jerry
            eggs
            sugar
            brandy
            rum


Take as many eggs as the number of drinks you expect to serve
and beat the whites to a stiff froth. Add one heaping teaspoon
sugar for each egg white. The egg yolks are beaten separately.
Mix the whites and yolks and sugar together with a pinch of
bicarbonate of soda and place in a large bowl, stirring occasionally
to prevent the sugar from settling.

To serve: Take two tablespoons of the above mixture and put in
a crockery mug. Add 1/2 jigger brandy and 1/2 jigger rum,
fill to the top with hot milk or cream (or boiling hot water).
Stir with a spoon and grate a little nutmeg on top.

  Runner up for holiday honors is this celebrated drink
named for the two titular characters in Pierce Egan's
book, Life in London, or days and Nights of ferry Haw
thorne and his Elegant friend Corinthian Tom, a fic
tional pair of rakes and sporting bloods of the Regency
period in Merrie England. First appearing in print in
1821, the book's two characters took on new fame with
the naming of this instantaneously popular drink in their
honor, and with the fact that drinking places became
"Tom and Jerries" instead of tap rooms.
  When and how the drink found popularity in America
or when it was first served in New Orleans is not known,
but references to it appeared almost a century ago.
                                                        Ninety-one


                                                                          Ji
                                                                       •iihi
  The Confradiction
               1 barspoon sugar
              Yi lemon—juice only
               1 jigger rye whiskey
 Mix in a barglass. Fill with cracked ice. Clap on the shaker
 dnd shake vigorously before straining into a cocktail glass.
   This is the drink a Frenchman had in mind when he
 walked into a New Orleans cocktail lounge and said to
 the man behind the bar:
    ^Mix for rne, sil vous plait, a contradictions."
       which? demanded the puzzled barkeep.
    ^^e great Am^ricain drink—a contradictions."
    Never heard of it, mister . . . how's it made?"
     You use whiskee to make eet strong; water to make
 eet weak; lemon juice to make eet sour, an' sugar to make
 eet sweet, explained the French visitor. "Zen you say:
 Here to you, an' you drink eet yourself! Zat, sar, ees
 zee contradictions."

   Whereupon the barkeep mixed the drink-which you
will have no difficulty in recognizing as the old reliable
time-tested Whiskey Sour.




Ninety-four




                                      il itiiitti iLiffcint f   »--•
                              INDEX
Absinthe Anisette. 38            Gin Highball, 16
Absinthe Cocktail, 37            Golden Fizz, 48
Absinthe Drinks. 34              Green Opal Cocktail, 39
Ale Flip, 79                     Green Opal Suissesse, 41
Absinthe Frappfi, 38             Grog, 63
Alexandre, 58
Ambrosia, 77                     Highballs, 16
American Presldente, 62          Hot Whiskey Sling, 78
Antolne Special, 76              Hot Whiskey Toddy, 78
Applejack Highball, 16
Arrack Punch, 85                 Irish Whiskey Highball, 16


Bacardi Cocktail, 60             Jack Rose Cocktail, 92
Between-the-Sheets 93            Jamaican Planters' Punch, 64
Bitter Sling, 80                 Jean Lafflte Cocktail, 67
Blue Blazer, 21                  Jitters Cocktail, 39
                                 John Collins, 47
Brandy drinks, 72
Brandy Flip, 79                  Juleps, 27
Brandy Highball, 16
                                 Kentucky Mint Julep, 29
Brandy Mint Julep, 32
Bronx Cocktail, 55               Kentucky Toddy, 78
                                 Kentucky Whiskey Cocktail, 19

Caji Brttlot, 74
                                 La Petit Goyave, 68
Ca/J Royale, 73
Canal Street Daisy, 93           Louisiana Mint Julep, 83
Charley Collins, 47              Louisiana Party Punch, 87
Chasse CafS, 73                  Manhattan Cocktail,, 22
Clover club, 57
                                 Mint Julep, 28
Cocktail o la Louisiane, 24      Mississippi Planter's Punch, 65
Cognac Highball, 16
Contradiction, 94                New Orleans Mint Julep, 33
Cuban Presldente, 62             New Orleans Presldente, 62
Cuban Rainbow Pousse Caf6,71     Not-to-dry Martini, 50

Daiquiri Cocktail, 60            OJen, 40
Dripped Absinthe Frangalse, 37   OJen Cocktail, 40
Dry Manhattan, 23                Old Absinthe House, 35
Dry Martini, 49                  Old Fashioned Cocktail, 20
                                 Old Hickory Cocktail, 56
                                 Orange Blossom, 53
Eggnogs, 89
                                 Orange BrQlot, 73
                                 Orange Whiskey Cocktail, 24
Flips, 79                        Orgeat Punch, 85
Frozen Daiquiri, 61
                                 Pilgrims' Progress, 67
Georgia Mint Julep, 80           Pineapple Julep, 86
Gin Drinks, 42                   Pink Lady, 56
Gin Fizzes, 48                   Pig & Whistle, 68
Gin Flip, 79                     Place d^Armea Cocktail, 25

                                                       Ninety-five




                                                                     jA
 Planter's Punch, 64          Sloe Gin, 43
 Pousse Caf6, 70              Sloe Gin Singapore Sling, 81
 Punches, 84                  State Street Cocktail, 54
                              Stinger, 93
                              Stirrup Cup, 76
 Hack, 85                     Stone Fence, 81
 Ramos Gin Fizz, 44           Sulssesse, 41
 Rickeys, 54                  Sweet Martini, 50
 Rofflgrnac Cocktail, 26      Swizzle, 83
 Royal Fizz, 48
 Rum Collins, 47              Tanglpahoa Planter's Punch, 65
 Rum Drinks, 59               Tchoupltoufas Street Guzzle, 71
 Rum Flip, 79                 Toddles, Slings, and Flips, 78
 Rum Highball, 16             Tom and Jerry, 91
 Rum Runner, 66               Tom Collins, 46
 Rye Highball, 16             Triple Pousse Catfe, 70

                              Vt'euii: Carrd Cocktail, 53
                              Viva Villa, 66
St. Charles Punch, 84
St. Regis Mint Julep, 32      Waldorf-Astoria Cocktail, 49
San Domingo Mint Julep, 31    Wallls Blue Cocktail, 51
Sangaree, 83                  Wassail Bowl, 88
Santlni's Old New Orleans     West Indies Cocktail, 61
  Pousse Cate, 70             Whiskey Cocktail, 23
Sazerac Cocktail, 17          Whiskey Drinks, 15
Scotch Highball, 16           Whiskey Eggnog, 90
Sherry Flip, 79               Whiskey Flip, 79
Side Car Cocktail, 52         White Ribbon Punch, 92
Sldoux's Holiday Eggnog, 90   Whiskey Sour, 94
Sliver Fizz, 48               Widow's Kiss, 93
Singapore Sling, 80
Slings, 80                    Yankee Flip, 79




To Be a Good Mixer, Remember:
        jigger equals-                       l'/2 ounces
        pony equals..                    _     1 ounce
        tablespoon equals.,              .. 54 ounce
        barspoon equals                  _ 1 teaspoon
        barglass equals.,                ..3'/4 ounces
        dash equals                      _ 20 drops or
                                          1/3 teaspoon



Ninety-six
           HARMANSON'S Publications



  PATIOS, STAIRWAYS AND
  LACE IRON BALCONIES OF
    OLD NEW ORLEANS
                    By E. Delcroix


     Forty-one full size halftone photographs
        of New Orleans' French quarter.

                  96 pages 8^^x11.


    Paper cover                               $1.00
    By mail                                    1.15




OLD FAMILIES OF LOUISIANA
              by Stanley Clisby Arthur and
                  George C. H. Kernion

History, Romance, Adventure intermingle with accu
    rate genealogical data in this 432-page record
    of the foundation families of Old Louisiana. One
    hundred and one families are represented in the
    seventy-five chapters.
     Handsomely bound in maroon cloth $5.00.
                            0

               Order from your bookseller
               or direct from the publisher

  HARMANSON, Publisher and Bookseller
  333 Royal Street              New Orleans, Louisiana
              Longevity
The horse and mule live thirty years
    And nothing know of wines and beers;
The goat and sheep at twenty die
    And never taste of Scotch or Rye;
The cow drinks water by the ton
    And at eighteen is mostly done;
The dog at fifteen cashes in
    And without the aid of rum or gin;
The cat in milk and water soaks
    And then in twelve short years it croaks;
The modest, sober, bone-dry hen
    Lays eggs for nogs, then dies at ten.
All animals are strictly dry.
    They sinless live and swiftly die.
But sinful, ginful, rum-soaked men—
    Survive for three-score years and ten!
                                                        If.




                                                     •i':




                                                       h 'V'




          UL#.nviiBii.r I               i-m     'I    '''
