                      •V. .. ..      .V-




                OXFORD




                       Jll IVll A




 COLIJ-X'TION OF IIECE11»TS


                    Mir




            VAHIUUS UKVJ'.n.SUIvS


                       VI I   I IN




        rn M F M V I'.us ri ^




                    (JM'OHl),
              r<m iii.Miv Mt.Ai'u.jii
ASU I (ISOMAFV, III LV, UIOlll. IIIIOIVN, AH") OnilKN,
                      I.ONIION.

                        ltt'27.


                  / '<70t: '2$. (hi.
ift: '

 ' V*




f ■•




            N    ■>•
            • sv^; •

                ■>v




  i-'.y -
                       < < •:'^   I ii' 1^n»iiiti I
                  CONTENTS.

                                            Page
Bishop, or Spiced Wine     . . . . ... .        1
Lawn Sleeves                             . .    4
Cardinal                                        4
Pope
Negus                                . i .. .   S
While Wine Negus . . . . . . . . . . 6
Port Wine Negus                 " .. 7
Oxford Punch, or Classical Sherbet              8
Spiced Punch                                . 11
Tea Punch                                       12
Gin Punch                                   . 12
Rod Punch                                       13
Punch Royal    . . . i .•                       13
Milk Punch                                      13
Oxford Milk Punch                               14
Norfolk Milk Punch       . . . . . . . . . 16
Restorative Punch, vidgo Storative              16
Lemon Punch to keep                             16
Egg Punch                      -                17
                           IV



Shrub Punch

Lemonade                                          18
Orangeade                                      19
Sir Fleetwood Fletcher's Sack Posset   . . ... 19
White Wine Whey, or Milk Posset                21
Pepper Posset                                  21
Cider Posset                                   22
Perry Posset                                   22
Hum Booze, or Egg Posset                       23
Beer Flip . .                            ■ • • 24
Rumfustian                                    24
'I*he Oxford Grace Cup   • .• • • . . . . . 25
Cider Cup, or Cold Tankard                    27
Perry Cup                                     29
Beer Cup                                      29
Red Cup                                       29
The Wassail Bowl, or Swig                     30
Brown Betty                               • • 32
Metheglin
Vinous Metheglin                             35
Mead and Braggon, or Bragget                 36
  ^.1 ."Ui IIJ              I .1. MWP




                   OXFORD


                 NIGHT CAPS,
                         4-c.




   BISHOP, OR SPICED WINE.

   Three cups of this a prudent man may take.
   The first of these for constitution's sake,
   The second to the girl he loves the best.
   The third and last to lull him to his rest.
                                          Fras-meut.


Bishop seems to be one of the oldest
winter beverages known, and to this day is
preferred to every other, not only by the
youthful votary of Bacchus at his evening's
revelry, but also by the grave Don by way
of a night cap; and probably derives its
name from the circumstance of ancient dig
nitaries of the Church, when they honoured
                      2

the University with a visit, being regaled
with spiced wine. Jt appears from a work
published some years since, and entitled,
Oxoniana., or Anecdotes of the Univei'sity of
Oxford, that in the Rolls or Accounts of
some Colleges of ancient foundation, a sum
of money is frequently met with charged
"pro speciebus," that is, for spices used in
their entertainments; for in those days
as well as the present, spiced wine was a
very fashionable beverage. In the Compu-
tus of Maxtoke Priory, anno 1447, is the
following curious entry; "Item pro vino
cretico cum speciebus et confectis datis
diversis generosis in die Sancti Dionysii
quando Le fole domini Montfordes erat hie,
et faceretjocositates suas in camera Orioli,'
" Vinum creticum" is supposed to be raisin
wine,or wine made of dried grapes; and the
meaning of the whole seems to be this: Paid
for raisin wine with comfits and spices, when
Sir S. Montford's fool was here, and exhi
 bited his merriments in the Oriel chamber.
                   Recipe.
  Make several incisions in the rind of a
lemon, stick cloves in the incisions, and
roast the lemon by a slow fire. Put small
but equal quantities of cinnamon, cloves,
mace, and all-spice, and a race of ginger,
into a saucepan, with half a pint of water;
let it boil until it is reduced one half.   Boil
one bottle of port wine; burn a portion of
the spirit out of it, by applying a lighted
paper to the saucepan. Put the roasted
lemons and spice into the wine; stir it up
well, and let it stand near the fire ten mi
nutes. Rub a few knobs of sugar on the
rind of a lemon, put the sugar into a bowl
 or jug, with the juice of half a lemon, (not
 roasted,) pour the wine upon it, grate some
 nutmeg into it, sweeten it to your taste, and
 serve it up with the lemon and spice floating
 in it.


   Oranges, although not used in Bishop at
 Oxford, are, as will appear by the following-
                         B2
lines, written by Swift, sometimes intro
duced into that beverage.
                          Fiue orangtis
  Well roasted, -witli sugar and wine in a cup.
  They'll make a sweet Bishop when gentlefolks sup.




   LAWN SLEEVES, CARDINAL,
                 and pope.

Owe their origin to some Brasen-nose Bac
chanalians, and differ only from Bishop, as
the species from the genus.

              LAWN sleeves.
   Substitute madeira or sherry for port
wine, and add three glasses of hot calves-
feet jelly.

                 CARDINAL.

  Substitute claret for port wine ; in other
respects the same as Bishop.
                 POPE.

  Precisely the same as Bishop, with the
exception of champagne being used instead
of port wine.




                 NEGUS.

   Negus is a modern beverage, and, ac
cording to Maloue, derives its name from
its inventor, Colonel Negus. Dr. Willicb, in
 his"Lectures on Diet and Regimen," says,
 that Negus is one of the most innocent and
 wholesome species of drink; especially if
 Seville oranges be added to red port wine,
 instead of lemons ; and drunk moderately, it
 possesses considerable virtues in strength
 ening the stomach; but, on account of the
 volatile and heating oil in the orange peel,
 Negus, if taken in great quantities, is more
 stimulant and drying than pure wine.
                       n3
                               6

                    WHITE WINE NEGUS.
         Extract the juice from the peeling of one
       lemon, by rubbing loaf sugar on it; or cut
        the peeling of a lemon extremely thin, and
       pound it in a mortar. Cut two lemons into
       thin slices ; four glasses of calves-feet jelly
       in a liquid state; small quantities of cinna
       mon, mace, cloves, and all-spice. Put the
       whole into a jug, pour one quart of boiling
        water upon it, cover the jug close, let it
       stand a quarter of an hour, and then add
       one bottle of boiling hot white wine. Grate
       half a nutmeg into it, stir it well together,
       sweeten it to your taste, and it is fit for use.
         Seville oranges are not generally used at
       Oxford in making Negus; when they are,
       one orange is allowed to each bottle of
       wine.


          COLD WHITE WINE NEGUS.
         To make cold white wine Negus, let the
       mixture stand until it is quite cold, and then
       pour a bottle of white wine into it.




■nriHini iiininni
                      7
  It is sometimes in the summer season
placed in a tub of ice; when that is done
it will be necessary to make the Negus
somewhat sweeter, as extreme cold detracts
from the sweetness of liquors.


         PORT WINE NEGUS.

  In making port wine Negus, merely omit
the jelly; for when port wine comes in con
tact with calves-feet jelly, it immediately
assumes a disagreeable muddy appearance.

   Negus is not confined to any particular
 sorts of wine ; if the jelly is omitted, it can
 be made with any, or several sorts mixed
 together.




                       B4
                           8


 OXFORD PUNCH, OR CLASSICAL
                   SHERBET.

       When e'en a bowl of punch we make.
       Four striking opposites we lake ;
       The strong, the small, the sharp, the sweet.
       Together mix'd, most kindly roeetj
       And when they liappily unite.
       The bo\vl is pregnant with delight.

   The liquor called Punch has become so
 truly English, it is often supposed to be in
 digenous to this country, though its name at
least is oriental. The Per.sian punj, or San
 scrit pancha, i. e. five, is the etymon of its
title, and denotes the number of ingredients
of. which it is composed. Addisoii's fox-
hvnter, who testified so much surprise when
he found, that of the materials of which this
"truly English" beverage was made, only
the water belonged to England, would have
been more astonished had his informant also
told him, that it derived even its name from
the East.
                     9

. Various opinions are entertained respect
ing this compound drink. Some authors
praise it as a cooling and refreshing beverage,
vphen drank in moderation ; others condemn
the use of it, as prejudicial to the brain and
nervous system. Dr. Cbeyne, a celebrated
Scotch physician, author of"An Essay on
Long Life and Health," and who by a system
of diet and regimen reduced himself from
the enormous weight of thirty-two stone to
nearly one third, which enabled him to live
to the age of seventy-two, insists, that there
is but one wholesome ingredient in it, and
that is the water.   Dr. Willich, on the con
trary, asserts, that if a proper quantity of
acid be used in making Puncli, it is an ex
cellent antiseptic, and well calculated to
supply the place of wine in resisting putre
faction, especially if drank cold with plenty
of sugar; it also promotes perspiration; but
if drank hot and immoderately, it creates
 acidity in the stomach, weakens the nerves,
 and gives rise to complaints of the breast.
                           10

He further states, that after a heavy meal it
is improper, as it may check digestion, and
injure the stomach".

                        Recipe.
  Extract the juice from the rind of three
lemons, by rubbing loaf sugar on it.
The peeling of two Seville oranges and two
lemons, cut extremely thin. The juice of
four Seville oranges and ten lemons. Six
glasses of calves-feet jelly in a liquid state.
The above to be put into a jug, and stirred
well together. Pour two quarts of boiling
water on the mixture, cover the jug closely,
and place it near the fire for a quarter of an
hour. Then strain the liquid through a sieve
iuto a punch bowl or jug, sweeten it with a •
bottle of capillaire, and add half a pint of
white wine, a pint of French brandy, a pint

  * Fielding mentions a Clergyman who preferred
Punch to Wine for tins orthodox reason, that the former
was a n<iuor no where spoken against in Scripture.
                          11

of Jamaica ruin, and a bollle of orange
sbrub ; the mixture to be stirred as the spi
rits are poured in. If not sufficiently sweet,
add loaf sugar gradually in small quantities,
or a spoonful or two of capillaire. To be
served up either hot or cold''. The Oxford
Punch, when made with half the quantity
of spirituous liquors, and placed in an ice
tub for a short time, is a pleasant summer
beverage.
  In making this Punch, limes are some
times used instead of lemons, but they are
by no means so wholesome"'.

              SPICED PUNCH.
    Boil a small quantity of each sort of
spice in half a pint of water, until it is re-

   •• Ignorant servants and waiters sometimes put oxalic
 acid into punch to give it a flavour; such a practice can
 not be too severely censured.
   « Arburthnot, in his work on aliments, says, "the
 West India dry gripes are occasioned by lime juice in
 Punch."




                                   iiilitiH- I   ...
                      12

 duced one half; add it to the ingredients
 wiiicb compose the Oxford Punch, and
 grate a whole nutmeg into it. Spiced
 Punch, if bottled off as soon as it is cold,
 with the spice in it, will keep good several
 days.


              TEA PUNCH.

   Green tea is the basis of this Punch; and
 although Tea Punch is seldom made in
 Oxford, it nevertheless has been much
 esteemed by those who have partaken of it.
 It is invariably drank hot. It is made pre-
.cisely in the same way as the Oxford
 Punch, excepting that the jelly is omitted,
 and green tea supplies the place of water.

              GIN PUNCH.

  The same as Oxford Punch, only omit
the rum, brandy, and shrub, and substitute
two bottles of gin.
                         13

              RED PUNCH.
  Substitute port wine for white, and red
currant jelly for calves-feet jelly; in other
respectsthe same as OxfordPunch. If drank
in the summer, let it stand until it is cold,
and then put it into a bucket of ice. Care
must be taken that the ice water does not
get into the jug which contains this Punch.

            PUNCH ROYAL.
   Extract the juice from the peeling of a
lemon, by rubbing loaf sugar on it. Pour
one pint of boiling water on it. Add the
juice of six lemons, one pint of rum, and a
pint of port wine. Sweeten it to your taste,
and it is fit for use.

              MILK PUNCH.
   Warm two quarts of water and one of
 new milk, theu mix them well together,
 and sweeten it with a sufficient quan
 tity of loaf sugar. Rub a few knobs of loaf
 sugar on the peeling of a lemon ; put them
                       14

into a jug with the above, and pour into it
gradually half a pint of lemon juice, stirring
the mixture as it is poured in. Then add
one quart of white brandy. Strain it through
a flannel bag or a fine hair sieve. Bottle it
off, and if placed in a cool cellar it will
keep ten days or a fortnight. Jellies are
sometimes used in making this Punch, but
they are not necessary, as the milk will suf
ficiently temper the acrimony of the lemon
jiiice.


          OXFORD MILK PUNCH.
   Dissolve two pounds and a half of double
refined sugar in one gallon of cold spring
water ; add to it a quarter of a pint of
orange flower water, the juice of twenty
limes and eight pot oranges. Stir it well
together; pour one quart of boiling milk
into it, and then add three quarts of white
brandy and three quarts of orange brandy
shrub; strain it through a flannel bag or fine
                     15

hair sieve. Take out what is wanted for
present use, and bottle off the remainder.

      NORPOLK MILK PUNCH.
  Cut the peeling of six Seville oranges and
six lemons extremely thin. Pound it in a
stone mortar. Add thereto a pint of brandy,
and let it remain about six hours; then
squeeze the juice of six Seville oranges and
eight^ lemons into it. Stir it well, and pour
into it three more pints of brandy, three
pints of rum, and three quarts of water.
Make two quarts of skimmed milk boiling
hot; grate a nutmeg into it; mix it gradu
ally with the other ingredients ; add a sufiQ-
cient quantity of fine loaf sugar to sweeten
it, (about two pounds.) Stir it till the sugar
is dissolved. Let the mixture stand twelve
hours, then strain it through a flannel bag
 till it is quite clear. It is then fit for use.
 It has been said, that if this Punch is bot
 tled off and well corked, it will keep in any
 climate, and for any length of time.
                              16

      The bottles it is put into must be per
   fectly dry.

       HESTORATIVE PUNCH, vulgo
                      STORATIVE.

      Extract the juice from the peeling- of one
   Seville orange and one lemon ; the juice of
  six Seville oranges and six lemons, six
  glasses of calves-feet jelly in a liquid state,
  a sufficient quantity of loaf sugar, (about
  half a pound;) put the whole into a jug,
 pour on it one quart of boiling water; add
 four glasses of brandy, stir it well together,
 and it is fit for use®.

        LEMON PUNCH TO KEEP.
    Cut the rind off six lemons if large, eight
if small, squeeze out the juice, put the
rind and the juice together, and add one
   ® Many of the first statesmen of the present day
(should they see this) will recognize it as the liquor in
variably drank by them at College before they attended
their debating parties.
                    T




                      17
quart of white brandy. Let it remain close
ly covered for three or four days.
  Let the juice of six or eight ^additional
lemons be squeezed into two quarts of water,
put into it a sufficient quantity of double
refined sugar to sweeten the whole. Boil it
well, and when quite cold, pour into it a
bottle of sherry or madeira. Then mix it
well with the lemon and brandy, and, if
sufficiently sweet, strain it through a flannel
bag into a small cask. At the expiration of
three months bottle it off, and if the bottles
are well corked and kept in a cool place,
it will be fit to drink in a month.

              EGG PUNCH.

  One quart of cold water, the juice of six
lemons and six pot oranges, four glasses of
calves-feet jelly in a liquid state; stir the
whole well together; let it remain covered
over for half an hour; then strain it through
a hair sieve, and add to it one bottle of ca-
pillaire, two glasses of sherry, half a pint of
                     18

brandy, and one bottle of orange sbrub.
Put some pulverised sugar and ten fresh-
laid hens' eggs into a bowl, beat them well
together, and gradually unite the two mix
tures by keeping the eggs well stirred as it
is poured in; then whip it with a whisk un
til a fine froth rises, and if sweet enough it
is fit fur immediate use.
  This Punch should be drank as soon as
it is made, for if kept any length of time
it will turn sour.
  Omit the wine and spirits, and freeze the
remainder, and a mould of ice may be ob
tained equal to any in use.

            SHRUB PUNCH.
  To make the above into Shrub Punch of
a superior flavour and quality to that in ge
neral use, merely leave out the eggs.
                 Lemonade.

  To convert Egg Punch into a delicious
Lemonade, leave out the wine, spirits, and
                                       19

              oranges, and add the juice of four more le
              mons and a proportionate quantity of sugar.

                                Orangeade.

                 The mixture may also be made into
              Orangeade by omitting the wine, spirits,
              and lemons, and squeezing into it the juice
              of twelve oranges in addition to those men
              tioned in the recipe for Egg Punch.



                                   POSSET.
                From fatn'd Barbadoes, on the western main,
                Fetch sugar, ounces four; fetch sack from Spain
                A pint; and from the Eastern Indian coast
                Nutmeg, the glory of our northern toast;
                O'er flaming coals let them together heat.
                Till the all-conquering sack dissolve the sweet;
                O'er such another fire put eggs just ten.
                New-born from tread of cock and rump of hen;
                Stir them with steady hand and conscience pricking.
                To see th' untimely end of ten fine chicken :
                From shining shelf lake down the brazen skellet,
                A quart of milk from gentle cow will fill it;
                                        c2




^ n-Tfiii i
                          20

   When boil'd and cold, put milk and sack to eggs.
   Unite them iinnly like the triple league.
  And on the fire let them together dwell
  Till miss sing twice—you roust not kiss and tell:
  Each lad and lass take up a silver spoon,
  And fall on fiercely like a starv'd dragoon.
                     Sir FUetwood Fletcher's Sack Posset.

   Posset, it seems, is a medicated drink of
some antiquity; for among the numerous
English authors who in some way or other
speak of it, our immortal Bard Shakspeare
has made one of his characters say,"We'll
have a Posset at the latter end of a sea coal
fire." And Sir John Suckling, who died in
1641, says, in one of his poems,"In came
the bridemaids with the Posset." Dr. John
son describes Posset to be milk curdled
with wine and other acids; we may there
fore with propriety infer, that the White Wine
Whey so common in Oxford is the Milk
Posset of our forefathers.
                        21


WHITE WINE WHEY, OR MILK
                    POSSET.

  Put one pint of milk into a saucepan, and
when it boils pour into it one gill of white
wine; boil it till the curd becomes bard,
then strain it through a fine sieve; rub a
few knobs of loaf sugar on the rind of a
lemon, put them into the Whey; grate a
small quantity of nutmeg into it; sweeten it
to your taste, and it is ht for use.


            PEPPER POSSET.
  The more to promote perspiration, whole
pepper is sometimes boiled in the Whey,but
 all-spice is far preferable.
, A Pepper Posset was known to the learned
 and ingenious John Dryden, as will appear
 by the following lines written by him;

    A sparing diet did her health assure ;
    Or sick, a pepper posset was her cure.
                        C3
                              22

                     CIDER POSSET.
          Pound the peeling of a lemon in a mortar,
        pour on it one quart of fresh drawn cider;
        sweeten it with double refined sugar, add
        one gill of brandy, and one quart of milk
        from the cow, stir it well together, strain it
        through a fine hair sieve or a flannel bag,
        then grate a nutmeg into it, and it is fit
        for use.

                    perry POSSET

        is prepare<i in the same way, excepting
        that perry is used instead of cider.
          There are other Possets, which have milk
        for their basis, in use in different parts of the
        country, such, for instance, as Treacle Beer
        and Orange Posset; but as they are seldom
        if ever made in Oxford, it is not necessary
        that any thing further should be said of
        them.

          The following have an affinity to, and
        possibly derive their origin from, Sir Fleet-
        wood Fletcher's Sack Posset.




jiMfi
                      23

RUM BOOZE, OR EGG POSSET ^
  The yolks ofeight eggs wellbeaten up,with
some refined sugar pulverized, and a grated
nutmeg; extract the juice from the rind of a
lemon by rubbing loaf sugar on it; put the
sugar, a piece of cinnamon, and a bottle of
white wine,into a clean saucepan ; when the
wine boils take it off the fire; pour one glass
of cold white wine into it, put it into a
spouted "jug, and pour it gradually among
the yolks of eggs, &c. keeping them well
stirred with a spoon as the wine is poured
in; if notsweet enough,add a small quantity
 of loaf sugar; then pour the mixture as swift
 as possible from one vessel to the other
 until a fine white froth is obtained.      Half a
 pint of rum is sometimes added, but it is
 then very intoxicating. Port wine is some
 times substituted for white, but is not con
 sidered so palatable. This liquor should be
 drank when quite hot. If the wine is poured
        b It is sometimes denominated Egg Flip,
                           c4
                      '24

 boiling hot among the eggs, the mixture
 will become curdled.


               BEER FLIP.

  Beer flip is made the same way and with
the same materials as the preceding, ex
cepting that one quart of strong home
brewed beer is substituted for the wine;
a glass of gin is sometimes added, but it is
better without it. This beverage is generally
given to servants at Christmas, and other
high festivals of our Church.



             RUMFUSTIAN.
  The yolks of twelve eggs, one quart of
strong beer, one bottle of white wiue, half a
pint of gin, a grated nutmeg, the juice from
the peeling of a lemon, a small quantity of
cinnamon, and sufficient sugar to sweeten it;
prepared precisely in the same way as Rum
Booze.
                          25

  Such is the intoxicating property of this
liquor, that none but hard drinkers will
venture to regale themselves with it a second
time.




    THE OXFORD GRACE CUP.

        Tlic grace cup serv'd, the cloth away,
        Jove thought it time to shew his play.
                                            Prior.

   The ancient Grace Cup was a vessel pro
portioned to the number of the company
assembled, which went round the table, the
 guests drinking out of the same cup one
 after another. Virgil describes something
 like it, when, speaking of the entertainment
 Queen Dido gave to ^neas, he says,
   Postquam prima quies epulis, meussque remot® ;
   Cratcras niagnos statuunt, et vina coronaut.
  • ••• • •• • ••

   Hie regina gravem gemmis auroque poposcit
   Iroplevitque mero pateram • • • • •
  • • • • • • • • • •
                         26

 Primaquc libato summo tcnus attigit ore.
 Turn Bitiaj dedit increpitans: ille iinpiger haasit
 Spumantem pateram, et pleno se proluit auro.
 Post alii proceres.

It has been the custom from time imme
morial, at the civic feasts in Oxford, for the
Grace Cup to be introduced before the re
moval of the cloth, when the Mayor receives
the Cup standing; his right and left hand
guests also rise from their seats while he
gives the toast, which, since the Reforma
tion, has been,"Church and King." The
Cup is then handed round the table, no one
presuming to apply his lips to it until two
persons have risen from their seats. The
origin of this custom is ascribed by our
antiquaries to the practice of the Danes
heretofore in England, who frequently used
to stab or cut the throats of the natives
while they were drinking, the persons stand
ing being sureties that the one holding the
cup should come to no harm while par
taking of it.
                        27
                      Recipe.
  Extract the juice from the peeling of a
lemon,and cut the remainder into thin slices;
put it into a jug or bowl, and pour on it three
half pints of strong home-brewed beer"^ and
a bottle of mountain wine; grate a nutmeg
into it; sweeten it to your taste; stir it till
the sugar is dissolved, and then add three
or four slices of bread toasted brown. Let it
stand two hours, and then strain it off into
the Grace Cup.


 CIDER CUP, OR COLD TANKARD.
   Extract the juice from the peeling of one
 lemon by rubbing loaf sugar on it; cut two
 lemons into thin slices; the rind of one
 lemon cut thin, a quarter of a pound of loaf
 sugar, and half a pint of brandy. Put the
 whole into a large jug, mix it well together,
   c Home-biewcd beer is here recommended, as the
 common brewers too frequently mix with their beer sul
  phuric acid, copperas, tobacco, capsicum, cocculus
  Indicus, coriander seeds, allum, and burnt sugar.
                            28

 and pour one quart of cold spring; water
 upon it. Grate a nutmeg into it, add one pint
 of white wine and a bottle of cider, sweeten
 it to your taste with capiilaire or sugar, put
 a handful of balm and the same quantity of
 borage*' in flower {horago officinalis) into
 it, stalk downwards. Then put the jug con
 taining this liquor into a tub of ice, and


  d "The sprigs of borage in wine are of known virtue,
to revive the hypochondriac, and cheer the hard stu
dent." Evelyn's Acetaria, p. 13. "Borage is one of
the four cordial flowers j it comforts the heart, cheers
melancholy, and revives the fainting spirits." Salmon's
Hmisehold Companion, London, 1710."Borage has the
credit of being a great cordial; throwing it into cold wine
is better than all the medicinal preparations." Sir John
Hill, M.D.
  "The leaves, flowers, and seed of borage, all or any
of them, are good to expel pensiveness and melancholy."
 The English Physician.
  "Balm is very good to help digestion and open obstruc
tions of the brain, and hath so much purging quality in it,
as to expel those melancholy vapours from the spirits and
blood which are in the heart and arteries, although it
cannot do so in other parts of the body." Ibid.
                    29

when it has remained there one hour it is fit
for use. The balm and borage should be
fresh gathered.

             PERRY CUP.
  Merely substitute perry for cider.

              BEER CUP.

  One quart of strong beer instead of cider
or perry. The other ingredients the same
ns in cider cup.

               RED CUP.

  Use one pint of port wine instead of
white; sometimes two glasses of red currant
jelly are added. In other respects the same
as cider cup, excepting that warm water is
used to dissolve the jelly.
                         30


 THE WASSAIL BOWL, OR SWIG.
    Sir, quod he, Watsayll, for never days of your lyf
ne dronk ye of such a cuppe. Ancient MS.

   The Wassail Bowl, or Swig, as it is
termed at Jesus College in this University,is
of considerable antiquity, and up to this time
is a great favourite with the sons of Cam
bria; so much so, indeed, that a party sel
dom dines or sups in that College without
its forming a part of their entertainment®.
On the festival of St. David, Cambria's
tutelary Saint, an immense silver gilt bowl,
containing ten gallons, and which was pre
sented to Jesus College by Sir Wathin W.
Wynne in 1732, is filled with Swig, and
banded round to those who are invited on
that occasion to sit at their festive and
hospitable board.            The following is the
method of manufacturing it at that College.

  ® Swig was formerly almost exclusively confined to
Jesus College; it is now, liowever, a great favourite
throughout the University.
                      31

  Put into a bowl half a pound of Lisbon
sugar; pour on it one pint of warm beer;
grate a nutmeg and some ginger into it: add
four glasses of sherry and five additional
pints of beer; stir it well; sweeten it to your
taste: let it stand covered up two or three
hours, then put three or four slices of bread
cut thin and toasted brown into it, and it is fit
for use. Sometimes a couple or three slices
of lemon, and a few lumps of loaf sugar
rubbed on the peeling of a lemon, are
introduced.
   Bottle this mixture, and in a few days it
may be drank in a state of eflfervescence.
  The Wassail Bowl, or Wassail Cup, was
formerly prepared in nearly the same way
 as at present, excepting that roasted apples,
 or crab apples, were introduced instead of
 toasted bread. And up to the present pe
 riod, in some parts of the kingdom, there are
 persons who keep up the ancient custom of
 regaling their friends and neighbours on
 Christmas-eve and Twelfth-eve with a Was-
                       32

sail Bowl, with roasted apples floaiingju it,
and which is generally ushered in with great
ceremony. Shakspeare allude.s to the Was
sail Bowl when he says, in his Midsummer
Night's Dream,
   Sometimes lurk I in a gossip's bowl,
   In veiy likeness of a roasted crab,
   And when she drinks, against her lips I bob.
    And on her wither'd dewlap pour the ale.




            BROWN BETTY.
  Brown Betty does not differ materially
from the preceding; it is said to have de
rived its name from one of the fair sex,
ycleped a bedmaker, who invariably recom
mended the mixture so nam'ed as a never
failing panacea.

                      Recipe.
  Dissolve a quarter of a pound of brown
sugar in one pint of water, slice a lemon
                         33

into it, let it stand a quarter of an hour,
then add a small quantity of pulverized
cloves and cinnamon, half a pint of brandy,
and one quart of good strong ale; stir it
well together, put a couple of slices of
toasted bread into it, grate some nutmeg
and ginger on the toast, and it is dt for use.
Ice it well and it will prove a good summer,
warm it and it will become a pleasant win
ter, beverage.        It is drank chiefly at
dinner.




                 METHEGLIN.
  Nod Vitis, sed Apis succum tibi niiUo bibendum,
  Quem legimus Bardos olim potasse Britannos.
  Qualibet in bacca Vitis Megera latescil,
  Qiialibet in gutta Mellis Aglaia nitct.

  The juice of Bees, not Bacchus, here behold,
  Which British Bards were wont to quaff of old;
  The berries of the grape with Furies swell.
  But in the honeycomb the Graces dwell.
                                            Howell,
                           ti
                           34

  Metheglin is probably derived from the
Welch Medclygllyn, a medical drink, and
was once the natural beverage of a great-
part of this country, and according to some
authors is the Hydromel ^ of the ancients.
 Howell        in one of his familiar letters, on
presenting a friend with a bottle of Metheglin,
thus speaks of it; "Neither Sir John
"Barleycorn or Bacchus had any thing to do
" with it, but it is the pure juice of the Bee,
   the laborious bee, and the king of insects j
   the Druids and old British Bards were
"wont to take a carouse hereof before
"they entered into their speculations. But
"this drink always carries a kind of state
"with it, for it must be attended with a
"brown toast; nor will it admit but of one

   ^ In fevers, the aliments prescribed by Hippocrates
 were ptisans and cream of barley, hydroinel, that is,
 honey and water, wliere there was no tendency to
 delirium.   Arbuthtiol.
     James Howell, Clerk of the Privy Council in 1640,
 and sometime Fellow of Jesus College in this University.
                      35

"good draught, and that hi the moruiug; if
"more, it will keep a huniming in the head,
"and so speak too much of the house it
"comes from, I mean, the hive."
   Indeed almost every other author who has
 written on the subject atfirms, that before the
 introduction of Agriculture into this island.
 Honey diluted with water (i. e. Metheglin)
 was the only strong drink known to, and
 was a great favourite among, the Ancient
 Britons.


   Metheglin is usually divided into the
 Simple and the Vinous. Simple Metheglin
 is that which has not been fermented, and
 the Vinous is that which has obtained a
 spirit by fermentation.

         VINOUS METHEGLIN.
    Take as much new honey separated from
 the-comb which, when well mixed with
  water, will be of such a consistency as to
  bear an egg; boil this liquor for one hour;
                           D 2
                       36

 let it stand covered up till the next morning,
 and, if it is then quite cold, put it into a cask.
To every fifteen gallons add pulverized
ginger, mace, cinnamon, and cloves, of each
 an ounce. To promote fermentation, put
into the bung-hole two table-spoonsful of
yeast. When it has done working stop it
 up, and in a month or six weeks it will be
in a fit state to be drawn off into bottles.



      MEAD AND BRAGGON, OR
            BRAGGET,

do not differ materially from Metheglin;
they are indeed varieties of the same.
Howell says,"they differ in strength ac-
"cording to the three degrees of compari-
 son, Metheglin being strong in the super-
'* lative, and if taken immoderately doth
"stupify more than any other liquor."
   The following are the methods of preparing
them.
   Mix the whites of six eggs with twelve




    iii'^¥ii I
                        37
gallons of spring water, add twenty pounds
of the best virgin honey and the peeling of
three lemons ; boil it an hour, and then put
into it some rosemary, cloves, mace, and
ginger; when it is quite cold,add a spoonful
or two of yeast, tun it, and when it has done
working, stop it up close. In a few month.s
bottle it off, and deposit it in a cellar of cool
temperature.
   feome prefer it without the spices, others
without lemons.


   To each gallon of water add four pounds
 ot the whitest, purest, and best tasted honey,
 and the peeling of two lemons; boil it half
 an hour. Scum it when cold. Put it into
 a cask, add some yeast to it; when it has
 done fermenting, stop the cask up close,
 and at the expiration of eight months bottle
 it off.

    ^Thebest Honey known is thalofNarbonnc in France,
  where Rosemary abounds, it having a very strong flavour
  of that plant.
                    38

  If this liquor is properly kept,the taste of
the honey will go off, and it will resemble
Tokay both in strength and flavour.    ^



                 THE END.
     r


   /                         BOOKS
                          I.ATELY I'UDLISnED BY



             H. SLA'PTER, HIGH STREET, OXFORD.



OXFORD NIGHT CAPS j being a Collcclion of Receipts for jnaking
   Various Beverages used in llio University. Price 2s.6U.
THE OXFORD SAUSAGE; or Select Poetical Pieces, written by liic
   most celobralcd ^Vi.s of the University of Oxford. A new F.dition.
   Price 2#. fill.

HINTS FOR OXFORIJ ; containing, 1. Hints Prefalnry. 2. Hints
 to Ficsiimen. 3. On Debt and Duns. 4. On Studies and Reading
  for lln'Schools. 5. Amusements, fi. On College Parties and Con
   versation. Price 3s. fid.

•J IIE OXFORD UNIVERSITY AND CII'V GUIDE,on a new i
    IMan ; to wliieb is added, a Guide tu Blenheim, Nunchnm. and the ^ j
   nev-ly-diicovcrcd Roman Villa, near Northleigh. I'licc :)<. fid.sewed; i
   fine paper,6s. bds.                                                        '
VIEWS of all the COLLEGES. HAT.LS, and PUBLIC BUILD- 'j
  INGS in the UNIVERSITY and CITY of OXFORD; wjllr                            ,
   Doscription.s. Price 12s. neatly half bound.                               ,
WyVLKS IN OXFORD; iliuslialcd by Seventy-two X'iews, drawn
   ami engraved by J-and 11. S..Stoicr. ln2voh!. By \V. rM. W'.vni.
   A new and improvud Edition. Piicei'l I*.; iind lariicpaper £1 12s, j
A NEW Dl'iSCUUPTION OF BLE.MIEI.M, the seal of His Gr.acc
 the Duke of Marlboroiigh : coiil.iiiiing a full and accurate Account of
  the Puintiic's. Taiiestry, and Fiirniiuic; .a Picliirestjue Tour uf tin
  Gardens and p.ail;,          Anew Edition; embellished with a Pi.ir
  of tin; Park, nnd several I'l.atcs. Pi ico 5s.; large paper 7s. fid.
THE OXFORD PRIZE I'OEIMS, scventli F.ililion. Price la. bds.
RIUS.E OXOMENSl'.S. Post bvo. 3 vols. in 1. Price })3.
CUKI.V OXOMENSIS;or. Observations on tUc Stnlutou which relate
  to the Universilv Louil; on llio Illegality of yenichiiig Houses; on
  Die Procniaioiial tlllice; and on the University Police Act 'J Uird
  Tldiliou. Prico 2s. fid.


    THE OXFORD UNIVERSITY AND CITY HERALD
Publi.;hcil every Saturday lilorning, and Hcnt jmstago-frcc to all parts of
                         liir. IMujeslv"; Duiiiinions.
