gitizedbyGoogle
  ~ N""-f:t: c~_
  I ~'-.e..l . ' s 2-7

ti, (l'~ c~, "'
 c:/L. "' CA.. ~        s-- ~ ~
 kl   ~,   c (.c..tz.hO . )) c   ~
r
                    OXFORD

   ~ight ~aps.
                             A

COLLECTION                    OF         RECEIPTS
                     FOR lllAKING

           VARIOUS BEVERAGES
                        USED IN

        THE           UNIVERSITY.
   Quid non ebrletas deslgnat ? Operta reclndit,
   Spe• jubet esse ratas, ad prwlia trn<ilt lnertem,
   Sollicitis anlmis onus exlmlt, addocet arte•.
   Fecundl calices quem non fecere dlaertum 1
   Contract& quem non In paupertate aolutum I
                                         H"'". lib. i. ep. 5.

   What cannot wine pertonn.? It brings to light
   The secret soul ; it bids the coward fight;
    Gives being to our hopes, and from our hearts
   Drives the dull aorrow and lnaplrea new artt,
   Whom bath not an Inspiring bumper taught
   A Bow of worda and loftlnen of thought I
   Even In tb' oppressive grasp of poverty
   It can enlarge, and bid the wretch be free.
                                           FYancis.

          A NEW EDITION, ENLARGED.


             OXFORD,
SLATTER &; ROSE; 2 & 3, HIGH STREET.
                    MDCCCLXXI.
~tdtrtlJ at .,tati11utrd' 11all.




   SL-m£R AND ROSE, PRINTERS, OXFORD.
                 CONTENTS.

                                     Page.
 BISHOP, or Spiced Wine                1
 Lawn Sleeves                          4
 Cardinal                              4
 Pope                                  4
 Cider Bishop                          5
 Oxford Mull                           5
 Negus                                 5
 Wbit.e Wine Negus                     6
 Cold Wbit.e Wine Negus                7
 Port Wine Negus                       7
Sherry Cobbler                         8
Julap, or Julep                       10
Oxford Punch, or Classical Sherbet    11
Noyeau Punch                          15
Spiced Punch                         15
Tea Punch •••                        16
Gin Punch ...                        16
Red Punc~ ..•                        16
Punch Royal                          17
Milk Punch                           17
Oxford Milk Punch                    18
Norfolk Milk Punch                   18
Rest.orative Punch, wigo Storative   19
Leander Punch                        20
Lemon Punch to keep                  21
                       iv
 Egg Punch ..•                          22
 Almond Punch                           23
 Shrub Punch                            23
 Champagne Punch                         23
 Punch 8. la Romaine                    24
 Innkeepers' Punch                      24
 Lemonade •••                           25
 Orangeade ;.. ' ..•                    25
 Sir Fle~twood Fletcher's Sack Posset   26
 White Wine Whey, or Milk Posset        27
 Pepper Posset                          27
Cider Posset                            28
Perry Posset                            28
Rum Booze, or Egg Posset                29
Beer Flip ...                           30
Rumfustian                              30
The Oxford Grace Cup                    31
Cider Cup, or Cold Tankard              34
Perry Cup •••                           37
Beer Cup ..•                            38
Red Cup                                 38
The Wassail Bowl, or Swig               38
Brown Betty                             41
Lambs Wool                              42
Brasenose .Ale                          44
Metheglin •.•                           50
Vinous Metheglin .•.                    52
Mead and Braggon, or Bragget            53
Claret Cup ..•                          54
Champagne Cup                           55
Moselle C!1P                            55
                     OXFORD

   NIGHT CAPS.

      BISHOP, OR SPICED WINE.

    Three cups of this a prudent man may t.ake ;
    The first of these for constitution's sake,
    The second to the girl he loves the best,
    The third and last t.o lull him t.o his rest.
                                Ancient Fragmtnt.
   BISHOP seems to be one of the oldest winter
beverages known, and is to this day preferred
to every other, not only by the youthful
votary of Bacchus at his evening's revelry,
but also by the grave Don by way of a Night
Cap; and probably derives its name from the
circumstance of ancient dignitaries of the
Church, when they honoured the University
with a visit, being regaled with spiced wine.
It appears from a work published some years
since, and entitled, Oxonian.a, <11' .Anecdotes of
the University of Oxj<ll'd, that in the Rolls or
                                       :a
                       2

Accounts of some Colleges of ancient foun. ·
dation, a sum of money is frequently met
with charged "pro speciebus,'' that is, for
spices used in their entertainments ; for in
those days as well as the present, spiced
wine was a very fashionable beverage. In
the Computus of .Maxtoke Priory, anno
1447, is the following curious entry: ~·Item
pro vino cretico cum speciebus et confectis
datis diversis generosis in die Sancti Dionysii
quando Le fole domini Montfordes erat hie, ,
et faceret jocositates suas in camera Orioli,"
" Vinum creticum " is supposed to be raisin
wine, or wine made of dried grapes ; and
the meaning of the whole seems to be this: .
Paid for raisin wine with comfits and spices,
when Sir S. Montfort's fool was here, and
exhibited his merriment1:1 in the Oriel chamber.

                   Recipe.
   Make several incisions in the rind of a
lemon, stick cloves in the incisions, and
roast the lemon by a slow fire. ·Put small
                          3

but equal quantities of cinnamon, cloves,
mace and all-spice, into a saucepan with
half a pint of water ; let it boil until it is
reduced one half. Boil one bottle of port
wine ; burn a portion of the spirit out of
it, by applying a lighted paper to the
saucepan. Put the roasted lemon and spice
into the wine ; stir it up well, and let it
stand · near the fire ten minutes. Rub a
few knobs of sugar on the rind of a lemon,
put the sugar into a bowl or jug, with
the juice of half a lemon, (not roasted,)
pour the wine into it, grate some nutmeg
into it, sweeten it to your taste, and serve
it up with the lemon and spice floating in it.

   Oranges, although not used in Bishop at
Oxford, are, as will appear by the following
lines, written by Swift, sometimes introduced
into that beverage.

                           Fine oranges
  Well roasted, with sugar and wine in a cup
  They'll make a sweet Bishop when gentlefolks sup.
     LAWN SLEEVES, CARDINAL,
               AND POPE,
Owe their origin to some Brazenose Bac-
chanalians, and differ only from Bishop as
the species from the genus.


            LAWN SLEEVES,
   Substitute madeira or sherry for port
wine, and add three glasses of hot calves-
feet jelly.


               CARDINAL.
  Substitute claret for port wine ; in other
respects the same as Bishop.


                  POPE.
  Precisely the same ·as Bishop, with the
exception of champagne being used instead
of port wine.
             .CIDER BISHOP.
   Omit th~ wine, and add one bottle 'of
good cider, a quarter of a pint of brandy
and two glasses of calves-feet jelly in II
liquid state.

             OXFORD MULL.
   Boil a small quantity of cinnamtm, cloves,
and mace in half a pint of water; pour
into it one bottle of port wine, and when
it is nearly boiling, add two lemons thinly
sliced. Sweeten it to your taste, and it is fit
for use.

                   NEGUS.
    Negus is a modern beverage, and, accord-
  ing to Malone, derives its name from its
  inv~ntor, Colonel Negus.    Dr. Willich, in
  his " Lectures on Diet and Regimen,"
  says, that Negus is one of the most inno-
  cent and wholesome species of drink ;
· especially if Beville oranges be added to
                      6

red port wine, instead of lemons ; and
drunk moderately, it possesses considerable
virtues in strengthening the stomach ; but,
on account of the volatile and heating oil
in the orange peel, Negus, if taken in
great quantities, is more stimulant and
drying than pure wine.

           WHITE WINE NEGUS.
    Extract the juice from the peeling of
 one lemon, by rubbing loaf sugar on it ;
or cut the peeling of a lemon extremely
 thin, and pound it in a mortar. Cut two
lemons into thin slices ; four glasses of
calves.feet jelley in a liquid state ; small
quantities of cinnamon, mace, cloves, and
all-spice. Put the whole into a jug, pour
one quart of boiling water upon it, cover
the jug close, let it stand a quarter of an
hour, and then add one bottle of boiling
hot white wine. Grate half a nutmeg into
it, stir it well together, sweeten it t-0 your
taste, and it is fit for use.
                      7

  Seville oranges are not generally used at
Oxford in making Negus; when they . are,
one orange is allowed to each bottle of wine.
      COLD WHITE WINE NEGUS.
    To make white wine Negus, let the mixture
iltand until it is quite cold, and then pour a
bottle of white wine into it.
  It is sometimes in the summer season
placed in a tub of ice : when that is done it
will be necessary to make the Negus some-
what sweeter, as extreme cqld detracts from
the sweetneBB of liquors.
           PORT WINE NEGUS.
   In making port wine Negus, merely omit
the jelly : for when port wine comes in con-
tact with calves-feet jelly, it immediately
assumes a disagreeable muddy appearance.
  Negus is not confined to any particular
sorts of wine ; if the jelly is omitted, it can
be made with any, or several sorts mixed
together.
                          8

              SHERRY OOBBLER.
    Sherry Cobbler has only been recently
 introduced into the University, and has
 become a great favourite among the Under-
,graduates. It unfortunately happened, that
 on its first introduction, ice was procured
 from the Confectioners and Fishmongers
 which had been taken from stagnant ponds
 and noisome ditches; consequently those who
 partook of it imbibed the filthy impurities
 which it contained. Subsequently the lemon,
 grape, strawberry, and other pure and whole-
 some water ices of the Confectioners, have
 been substituted.•
                       Reci.pe.
   Pound a small quantity of ice qnite fine,
by . wrapping it in a coarse cloth, and beat..
ing it with a mallet or rolling pin. Half fill
a large tumbler with this powdered ice,
add a teaspoonful and a half of pounded
 * Thia liquor, drawn into the mouth through a straw,
has in more than one instance pnxluoed Vertigo.
                      9

11ngar, two or three pieces of the outer rind
of a lemon, and a wine glass and a half of
sherry. (Throw in half a dozen strawberries,
if in season.) Fill up with pounded ice.
Mix by pouring rapidly from one tumbler to
another several times.   Drink through a
straw.

  This fashionable compound was published
by a party of speculating gentlemen, who
have denominated themselves "the Wenham
Lake Ice Company." And it appears, that
the Company imports an immense quantity
of ice from Wenham lake in America, which
is transmitted to any part of the united
kingdom by American refrigerators or por-
table ice houses, and sold through the
agencies of Tradesmen residing at Liver-
pool, Birmingham, Manchester, Dublin,
Hastings, Richmond, and Blackheath.
                          10

            JULAP, OR JULEP.
     Behold this cordial Julap here,
   That flames and dances in his crystal bounds,
   With spirit.a of balm and fragrant syrups mixt:
                                               MilUltl.

   Julap• is a refreshing and wholesome
drink, used much by country housewives.
John Quincy,t the author of a dictionary of
Physic, describes it as an extemporaneous
form of medicine, made of simple and com-
pound water sweetened, and serves for a
vehicle to other forms not so convenient to
take alone.
   The usual mode of making it in the vicin-
age of Oxford is, by sweetening an infusion
of mint with honey, and mixing a glass of
wine or spirits with it.
   The following is the Mint Julep of the
Wenham Lake Company :
   Mingle ice and sugar as described in the
Reeipa for Sherry Cobbler. Add a wine
glass of brandy, half a wine glass of old rum,
* J ulap is a Persian word, signifying a sweet potion.
t Died in 1728.
                           11

arid two or three sprigs of mint. Stir the
whole well together, and drink it through a
straw.•



     OXFORD PUNCH; OR CLASSICAL
             SHERBET.
       When e'en a bowl of punch we make,
       Four striking opposites we take ;
       The strong, the small, the sharp, the sweet,
       Together mix'd, most kindly meet;
       And when they happily unite,
       The bowl is pregnant with delight.

    The liquor called Punch has become !'lo
truly English, it is often supposed to be in-
digenous to this country, though its name at
least is oriental. The Persian punj, or San-
scrit pancha, i. e. five,t is the etymon of its
title, and denotes the number of ingredients

 * The straws used are generally obtained from bonnet-
makers, and are about eight inches long.
 t See Fryer's Travels.
                      12

of which it is composed. Addison's /<XMtJnter,
who testified so much surprise when he found,
that of the materials of which this 1' trnly
English" beverage was made, only the water
belonged to England, would have been more
astonished had hie informant also told him,
that it derived even its name from the East.
   Various opinions are entertained respect-
ing this compound drink. Some authors
praise it as a cooling and refreshing beverage,
when drank in moderation ; others condemn
the use of it, as prejudicial to the brain and
nervous system.     Dr. Cheyne, a celebrated
Scotch physician, author of " An Essay on
Long Life and Health," and who by a ays-
tem of diet and regimen reduced himself
from the enormous weight of thirty.two
 stone to nearly one third, which enabled
 him to live to the age of seventy.two, insists,
 that there is but one wholesome ingredient
in it, and that is the water. Dr. Willich,
 on the contrary, 1¥1Berte. that if a proper
 quantity of acid be used in making Punch,
                           13

 it is an ex~llent antiseptic, and well calcu-
 lated to supply the place of wine in resisting
 putrefaction, especially if drank cold with
 plenty of sugar; it also promotes perspiration :
 but if drank hot and immoderately, it creates
 acidity in the stomach, weakens the nerves,
 and gives rise to complaints of the breast.
 He further states, that after a heavy meal it
is improper, as it may check digestion, and
injure the stomach.•
    Rennie states, that he once heard a face..
 tious physician at a public hospital prescribe
for a poor fellow sinking under the atrophy
of starvation, a bowl of Rum Punch. Mr
 Wadd gives us a prescription-" Rum, aqua
dulci miscetur acetum, et fiet ex tali fredere
nobile Punch." He also states, that Toddy,
or Punch without acid, when made for a day
or two before it is used, is a good and-cheap
substitute for wine as a tonic, in convalescence
from typhus fever, &c.
   *Fielding mentions a Clergyman who preferred Punch
to Wine for this orthodox reason, that the former was a
liquor no where spoken against in Scripture.
                            14
'
                         Recipe..
       Extract the juice from the rind of three
    lemons, by rubbing loaf sugar on them. The
    peeling of two Seville oranges and two lemons,
    cut extremely thin. The juice of four Seville
    oranges and ten lemons. Six glasses of calveS-
    feet jelly in a liquid state. The above to be
    put into a jug, and stirred well together. Pour
    two quarts of boiling water on the mixture,
    cover the jug closely, and place it near the fire
    for a quarter of an hour. Then strain the
    liquid through a i:;ieve into a punch bowl or
    jug, sweeten it with a bottle of capillaire, and
    add half a pint of white wine, a pint of French
    brandy, a pint of jamaica rum, and a bottle of
    orange shrub; the mixture to be stirred as the
    spirits are poured in. If not sufficiently sweet,
    add loaf sugar gradually in small quantities, or
    a spoonful or two of capillaire. To be served
    up either hot or cold.• The Oxford Punch,

      *Ignorant servants and waiters sometimes put C>Dlic
    acid into Punch to give it a flavour; such a practice
    eannot be too severely censured.
                           15

when made with half the quantity of spirituous
liquors and placed in an ice tub for a short
time, ia a pleasant summer beverage.
   In making this Punch, limes are sometimes
used instead of lemons, but they are by no
means so wholesome.t

               NOYEAU PUNCH.
   Mix three wine glasses of Noyeau with
the Oxford Punch.
  Noyeau is dangerous, when drank in any
quantity, as it contains hydrocyanic acid;
therefore more than the quantity specified
ought not to be used.

                SPICED PUNCH.
  Boil a small quantity of each sort of spice
in half a pint of water, until it is reduced
one half; add it to the ingredients which
compose the Oxford Punch, and grate a whole
nutmeg into it. Spiced Punch, if bottled oft
 t Arbuthnot, in bis work on ailments, says, "the West
ln?ia dry gripes are occasioned by lime juice in Punch."
                       16

as soon as it is cold, with the spice in it, will
keep good several days.

                  TEA PUNCH.
   Green tea is the basis of this Punch ; and
although Tea Punch is seldom made in Oxford,
it nevertheless has been much esteemed by
'those who have partaken of it. It is invariably
drank hot. It is made precisely in the same
way as the Oxford Punch, excepting that
the jelly is omitted, and green tea supplies the
place of water.

                  GIN PUNCH.
  The same as Oxford Punch, only omit the
rum, brandy, and shrub, and substitute two
bottles of gin.

                  RED PUNCH.
  Substitute port wine for white, and red
currant jelly for calvesfeet jelly; in other
respects the same as Oxford Punch. If
drank in the summer, let it stand until it ia
                       17

cold, and then put it into a bucket of ice.
Care must be taken that the ice water
does not get into the jug which contains
this Punch.
              PUNCH ROYA<L.
   Extract the juice from the peeling of a
lemon, by rubbing loaf sugar on it. Pour
one pint of boiling water on it. Add tl)e
juice of six lemons, one pint of rum, and a pint
of port wine. Sweeten it to your taste, and it
is fit for use.
               MILK PUNCH.
   Warm two quarts of water and one of
new milk, then mix them well together,
and sweeten it with a sufficient quantity
of loaf sugar. Rub a few knobs of loaf
sugar on the peeling of a lemon; put them
into a· jug with the above, _and pour into
it gradually half a pint of lemon juice,
stirring the mixture as it is poured in.
Then add one quart of white brandy.
Strain it through a flannel bag or a fine
hair sieve. Bottle it off, and if placed in
                            (

                                       (J
                             18

     ii. cool cellar it will keep ten days or a fortnigbt4
     Jellies are sometimes used in making this
     Punch, but they are not necessary, as the milk
     will sufficiently temper the acrimony of the
     lemon juice.

               OXFORD MILK PUNCH.
        Dissolve two pounds and a half of double
     refined sugar in one gallon of cold spring water;
     add to it a quarter of a pint of orange-flower
     water, the juice of twenty limes and eight
     pot oranges. Stir it well together ; pour one
     quart of boiling milk into it, and then
     add three quarts of white brandy and
     three quarts of orange brandy shrub ; strain
     it through a flannel bag or fine hair sieve.
     Take out what is wanted for present use,
     and bottle off the remainder.

              NORFOLK MILK PUNCH.
        Cut the peeling of six Seville oranges and
\.
     six lemons extremely . thin. Pound it in a
     stone mortar. Add thereto a pint of brandy,
                       19

 and let it remain about six hours ; then squeeze
 the juice of six Seville oranges and eight
 lemons into it. Stir it well, and pour into it
 three more pints of brandy, three pints of rum,
and three quarts of water. Make two quarts
of skimmed milk boiling bot ; grate a nutmeg
into it; mix it gradually with the other
ingredients; add a sufficient quantity of fine
loaf sugar to sweeten it, (about two pounds.)
Stir it till the sugar is dissolved. Let the
mixture stand twelve hours, then strain it
through a flannel bag till it is quite clear.
It is then fit for use. It bas been said,
that if this Punch is bottled off and well
corked, it will keep in any climate, and
for any length of time.
   The bottles it is put into must be
perfectly dry.

      RESTORATIVE PUNCH, V1Ji.go
            STORATIVE.
  Extract the juice from the peeling of one
Seville orange and one lemon ; the juice of
                           20

six Seville oranges and six lemons, six glasses
of calves-feet jelly in a liquid state, a sufficient
quantity of loaf sugar, (about half a pound;)
put the whole into a jug, pour on it one quart
of boiling water ; add four glasses of brandy,
stir it well together, and it ia fit for use.•

               LEANDER PUNCH.
   This drink was invented by Mr. Fellows,
who was for many years an active member
of the well-known " London Boat Club," from
which it takes its name. The inventor caused
the Punch to be introduced into the University
by a friend at Oh. Oh.
                       Recipe.
  Four glasses of whisky, (Irish if possible)
two glasses of brandy, and the juice and peel
of one large lemon. Add boiling water to
make a quart, and if not enough, ad libitum.
   * Many of the first statesmen of the present day
 (should they see this) will recognize it as the liquor
invariably drank by them at College before they
attended their debating parties.
                       21

 Then boil a wine glass of good old ale, and
 put the froth into the punch with one table-
 spoonful of the ale ; sweet&n to the taste and
 stir it. If it stands in a jug near the fire for
 half an hour it will be improved.
          LEMON PUNCH TO KEEP.
    Cut the rind o:ff six lemons if large, eight
if small, squeeze out the juice, put the rind
and the juice together, and add one quart of
white brandy. Let it remain closely covered
for three or four days.
   Let the juice of six or eight additional
lemons be squeezed into two quarts of water,
put into it a sufficient quantity of double
refined sugar to sweeten the whole. Boil it ·
well, and when quite cold, pour into it a
bottle of sherry or madeira. Then mix it
well with the lemon and brandy, and, if
sufficiently sweet, strain it through a flannel
bag into a small cask. At the expiration of
three months bottle it off, and, if the bottles
are well corked and kept in a cool place, it
will be fit to drink in a month.
                      22

                EGG PUNCH.
   One quart of cold water, the juice of six
lemons and six pot oranges, four glasses of
calves-feet jelly in a liquid state ; stir the
whole well together ; let it remain covered
over for half an hour ; then strain it through
a hair sieve, and add to it a bottle of capil-
laire, two glasses of sherry, half a pint of
brandY> and one bottle of ol'!'nge shrub.
Put some pulverised sugar and ten fresh.
laid hens' eggs into a bowl, beat them well
together, and gradually unite the two mixtares
by keeping the eggs well stirred as it is poured
in; then whip it with a whisk until a fine froth
rises, and if sweet enough it is fit for
immediate use.
  This Punch should be drank as soon as it is
made, for if kept for any length of time it will
tum sour.
  Omit the wine and spirits, and freeze the
remainder, and a mould of ice may be obtained
equal to any in use.




                                "zenbvGoogle
                       23

             ALMOND PUNCH.
    Extract the juice from the peeling of one
lemon and ·one Seville orange by rubbing loaf
fi1lga.t' on them. The juice of six lemons and
one Seville orange, one bottle of capillaire, and
a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar. Put the
 whole into a jug, and when well mixed, pour
upon it three pints of boiling water. Cover the
jug close, and keep it near the fire a quarter
of an hour. Then add three ounces of sweet
and half an ounce of bitter almonds, blanched
and pounded fine in a mortar, and gradually
mixed with a bottle of white brandy. Stir
it well, and if sufficiently sweet it may be
used immediately.
              SHRUB PUNCH.
  To make the above into Shrub Punch of a
superior flavour and quality to that in general
use, merely leave out the eggs.
           CHAMPAGNE PUNCH.
  Pare two lemons very thin, and steep the
peeling in one piDt of rum, (or grate some
lemon peel on a lump of sugar, and as the
surface becomes yellow scrape it into the
rum;) add a wine gl888 of sherry, half a pint
of brandy, the juice of fonr lemons, a small
quantity of syrup of capillaire, one quart of
boiling water, sweeten it sufficiently with
pounded sugar, and when those are assem-
bled who intend to partake of it, pour into it a
bottle of champagne.

         PUNCH A LA ROMAINE.
  Make one pint and a half of lemonade,
beat to a froth the whites of four eggs, stir to
this two ounces of pounded sugar, add half·a
quartern of rum, and the same quantity of
brandy, with four glasses of green gooseberry
or white currant wine.
  This Punch is usually iced.

          INN KEEPERS' PUNCH.
  Dissolve about seven ounces of lump sugar
in one pint of boiling water, add forty grains
of citric acid, seven or eight drops of essence
of lemon, and· (when well mixed) half a pint
of rum, a quarter of a pint of brandy, and a
glaas of sherry.

                LEMONADE.
   To convert Egg Punch into delicious
Lemonade, leave out the wine, spirits, and
oranges, and add the juice of four more
lemons, and a proportionate quantity ,of
sugar.

               ORANGEADE.

   The mixture may also be made into
Orangeade by omitting the wine, spirits,
and lemons, and squeezing into it the juice
of twelve oranges in addition to those men-
tioned in the recipe for Egg Punch.
                         26

                    POSSET.

 From fam'd Barbadoes, on the western main, ·
 Fetch sugar, ounces four; fet.ch sack froml Spain
 A pint; and from the East.em Indian coast
 Nutmeg, the glory of our northern toast;
 O'er 11.aming coals let them together heat,
 Till the all-conquering sack dissolve the sweet;
 O'er wch another fire put eggs just ten,
 New-born from tread of cock and rump of hen;
 Stir them with steady hand and conscience' pricking,
 To see th' untimely end of ten fine chicken :
 From shining shelf take down the brazen skellet,
 A quart of milk from gentle cow will fill it;
 When boiled and cold, put milk and sack to eggs ;
 Unite them firmly like the triple league,
 And on the fire let them together dwell
 Till miss sing twice-you must not kiss and tell :
 Each lad and lass take up a silver spoon,
 And fall on fiercely like a starvec:I dragoon.
                    Sir Fl,utwood FktcMr'a Sade PO#d.




  PosBET, it seems, is a medicated drink of
some antiquity ; for among the numerous
English authors who in some way or other
speak of it, our immortal Bard Shakspeare
has made one of his characters say, " We'll
                      27
  {
have a Posset at the latter end of a sea ooal
fire." And Sir John Suckling, who died in
1641, says in one of his poems," In came the
bridesmaids with the Posset." Dr. Johnson
describes posset to be milk curdled with wine
and other acids; we may therefore with
propriety infer, that the White Wine Whey so
common in Oxford, is the Milk Posset of
our forefathers.
     WHITE WINE WHEY, OR MILK
                    POSSET.
  Put one pint· of milk into a saucepan, and
when it boils pour into it one gill of white
wine ; boil it till the curd becomes hard,
then strain it through a fine sieve ; rub a few
knobs of loaf sugar on the rind of a lemon,
put them into the whey; grate a small
quantity of nutmeg into it; sweeten it to
your taste, and it is fit for use.
                PEPPER POSSET.
   The more to promote perspiration, whole
pepper is sometimes boiled in the whey, but.
all-spice i& far preferable.
                          28

  A Pepper Posset was known to the learned
and ingenious John Dryden, 88 will appear
by the following lines written by him:-
      A sparing diet did her health 8811Ul'e;
      Or sick, a pepper poeset was her cure.

                CIDER POSSET.
   Pound the peeling of a lemon in a mortar,
pour on it one quart of fresh ·drawn cider ;
sweeten it with double-refined sugar, add
one gill of brandy, and one quart of milk
from the cow, stir it well together, strain it
through a fine hair sieve or a flannel bag,
then grate a nutmeg into it, and it is fit for
use.

                PERRY POSSET
is prepared in the same way, excepting that
perry is used instead of cider.
   There are other Possets, which have milk
for their basis, in use in di1ferent parts of the
country, such, for instance, as Treacle, Beer,
and Orange Posset; but 88 they are seldom
                        29

if ever made in Oxford, it is not necessary
that anything further should be said of
them.
  The following have an affinity to, and
possibly derived their origin from, Sir Fleet-
wood Fletcher's Sack Posset.
     RUM BOOZE, OR EGG POSSET.•
   The yolks of eight eggs well beaten up,
with some refined sugar pulverised, and a
grated nutmeg ; extract th~ juice from the
rind of a' lemon by rubbing loaf sugar on it ;
put the sugar, a piece of cinnamon, and
bottle of white wine, into a clean saucepan ;
when the wine boils take it off the fire ;
pour one glass of cold white wine into it,
put it into a spouted jug, and pour it
gradually among the yolks of eggs, &c.,
keeping them well stirred with a spoon as
the wine is poured in: if not sweet enough
add a small quantity of loaf sugar ; then,
pour the mixture as swift as possible from
      * It is sometimes denominated Egg Flip
                         30

 one vessel to the other until a fine white troth
 is obtained. Half a pint of rum is sometimes
 added, but it is then very intoxicating.
 Port wine is sometimes substituted for white,
 but it is not considered so palatable. Thia
 liquor should be drank when quite hot. If the
 wine is poured boiling hot among the eggs, the
 mixture will become curdled.

                  BEER FLIP.
     Beer Flip is made in the same way and
  with the same materials as the preceding,
  exceIJting that one quart of strong home-
. brewed beer is substituted for the wine; a
  glass of gin is sometimes added, but it is better
  without it. This beverage is generally given
  to servants at Christmas, and other high
  festivals of our Church.

                 RUMFUSTIAN.
    The yolks of twelve eggs, one quart of
 strong beer, one bottle of white wine, half a
                         31

pint of gin, a grated nutmeg, the juice from
the peeling of a lemon, a small quantity of
cinnamon, and sufficient sugar to sweeten
it ; prepared precisely in the same way as
Rum Booze.
   Such is the intoxicating property of this
liquor, that none but hard drinkers will ven.
ture to regale themselves with it a second
time.



     THE OXFORD GRACE CUP.

       The grace cup aerv'd, the cloth away, .
       Jove thought it time to shew his play.
                                          Prim-.

   The ancient Grace cup was a vessel pro.
portioned to the number of the company
assembled, which went round the table, the
guests drinking out of the same cup one
after another. Virgil describes something
like it, when, speaking of the entertainment
Queen Dido gave to .2Eneas, he says
   Postquam prima quies epWis, memiieque remotle ;
   Crat.eras magnos statuunt, et vina coronant.
   * * * * * * * * * *
   Hie regina gravem gemmis auroque poposcit
              * *
   Implevitique mero, pat.eram: * *
   ***********
   Primaque, llbato, summo tenus attigit ore.
   Tum Bitile dedit increpit.ans; ille imp1ger hausit
   Spumant.em pateram, et pleno se proluit auro:
   Post alli prooeres.

   It has been the custom from time imme-
morial, at the civic feasts in Oxford, for
the Grace Cup to be introduced before the
removal of the cloth, when the Mayor re.
ceives the Cup standing; his right and left
hand gue1ts also rise from their seats while
he gives a toast, which, since the Reformation,
has J>een "Church and King."        The Cup is
then handed round the table, no one pre-
suming to apply his lips to it until two
persons have risen from their seats. The
origin of this custom is ascribed by our
                            33

antiquaries to the practice ef the Danes
heretofore in England, who frequently used
to stab or cut the throats of the natives
:while they were drinking, the persons stand-
ing being the sureties that the one holding
the cup should come to no harm while
partaking of it.

                         Recipe.
   Extract the juice from the · peeling of a
lemon, and cut the remainder into thin slices ;
put it into a jug or bowl, and pour on it three
half-pints of strong home brewed beer• and a
bottle of mountain wine ; grate a nutmeg
into it; sweeten it to your taste; stir it till
the sugar is dissolved, and then add three

  *Home-brewed beer is here recommended, as some com-
mon brewers and publicans mix witli their beer sulphuric
acid, copperas, t.obacco, capsicum, coculus Indicua, cori-
ander seeds, grains of paradise, allum, and burnt sugar.
  It is a well-known fact, thet at this peri<Jl there are
wandering from t.own t.o town persons who call themselves
"Brew~,' Drufl(/Uu," who offer for sale a composition

                                               D
                              34

or four slices of bread toasted brown. Let
it stand two hours, and then strain it off into
the Grace Cup.

     CIDER CUP, OR COLD TANKARD.
   Cold Tankard has for a very long period
been a favourite summer drink not only
within the walls of the Colleges, but also
at Taverns situated near the banks of the
river, and which are much resorted to by
the junior members of the University who

which in a short time will make weak beer strong, even
to int.oxication.
  Ooculus Indicus, the pulp of Ooculm l!tkro81U. Im-
ported from the East Indies in considerable quantities, for
the purpose, it is said, of giving beer and spirits an int.oxi-
cating quality at less expence than by genuine materials.
The use of it is prohibited by law. Rennie'' Pharm.

   Grains of Paradise. In the slang of brewers' druggists
termed G.P. The seeds of the .A.momum grana Par<J4in.
They are seldom used in medicine, but are extensively
employed t.o conceal adulterations by giving false strength
to spirits, wine, beer, and vinegar. Ibid.
                         35

are fond of aquatic excursions. Many are
the sonnets and songs which have been
made upon the fair waiting women who
almost invariably prepare this cooling and
wholesome beverage. The following specimen,
written some years since, probably will not
prove unacceptable to the reader.

   Say-lives far or near a damsel 80 fair,
   So cheerful, 80 blithe, or 80 merry?
       On earth I can't find
       A nymph half 80 kind
   As Doris, the Maid of the Ferry.

   My rivals may boast, and coxcombs may toast
   Her in old port, madeira, or sherry;
       To them I can prove,
       They'll ne'er gain the .love
   Of Doris, the Maid of the Ferry.

  She looks up the oars, and the old tavern scores,
  "And now and then cleans out a wherry;
       The sails she can mend,
       And the parlour attend,
   For obliging's the Maid of the Ferry.
                           36

    She serve& at the bar, and excels all by far
    In making Cold Tankard of perrJ;
        How sweet then at eve,
        With her leave to receive
    A kiss from the Maid of the Feery.

    Both early and Iat& her apparel is neat,
    Yet for finery she cares not a berry;
        She's comely and gay,
        And now I'll away
    To Doris, the Maid of the Feny.



                        Iledpe.
   Extract the juice from the peeling of one
lemon, by rubbing loaf sugar on it; cut two
lemons into thin slices; the rind of one lemon
cut thin, a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar,
and half a pint of brandy. Put the whole
into a large jug, mix it well t9gether, and
pour one quart of cold spring water upon it.
Grate a nutmeg into it, add one pint of white
wine and a bottle of cider, sweeten it to your
taste with capillaire or sugar, put a hand-
                            S7

ful of balm and the same quantity of borage•
in flower (burago qfficinolis) into it, stalk
downwards. Then put the jug containing
this liquor into a tub of ice, and when it
has remained there one hour it is fit for
use. The balm and borage should be fresh
gathered.
                    PERRY CUP.
   Merely substitute perry for cider.
   *" The sprigs of borage in wine are of known virtue, t.o
revive the hypochondriac, and cheer the hard student."
Evelyn'• Acetaria, p. 18: "~ is one of the four .
cordial Bowers; it comforts the heart, cheers melancholy,
and revives the fainting spirits." Sa!,mon'a HOUlehoU
GimpQnion, London, 1710. "Borage has the credit of
being a great cordial ; throwing it int.o cold wine is better
than all the medicinal pre~ations." Sir John HiU, lrl.D.
   "The leaves, flowers, and seeds of borage, all or any of
them, are good t.o expel pensiveness and melancholy."
TM Engliih Phyaician.
   "Balm is very good t.o help digestion and open obstruc-
tions of the brain, and hath 80 much purging quality in
it, as t.o expel those melancholy vapours from the spirit.a
and blood which are in the heart and arteries, although
it cannot do 80 in other parts of the body." Ibid.



                                                                /
               BEER CUP.
  One quart of strong beer instead of cider
or perry. The other ingredients the same as in
Cider Cup.

                   RED CUP.
   Use one pint of port wine instead of white;
sometimes two glasses of red currant jelly are
added. In other respects the same as Cider
Cup, excepting that warm water is used to
dissolve the jelly.



    THE WASSAIL BOWL, OR SWIG.
  "Sir, quod he, Wateayll, for never days of your lyf
ne dronk ye of such a cuppe." .dncitnt MS.

   The Wassail Bowl, or Swig, as it is termed
at Jesus College in this University, is of con-
siderable antjquity, and up to this time is a
great favorite with the sons of Cambria; so
much so, indeed, that a party seldom dines
or sups in that College without its forming
                         39

a part of their entertainment.• On the festival
of St. David, Cambria's tutelary Saint, an
immense silver gilt bowl, containing ten
gallons, and which was presented to Jesus
College by Sir Watkin W. Wynne in 1732,
is filled with
             , Swig, and handed round to
those who are invited on that occasion to
sit at their festive and hospitable board.
The following is the method of manufacturing
it at that College.
                    Recipe.
   Put into a bowl half a pound of Lisbon
sugar; pour on it one pint of warm beer;
grate a nutmeg and some ginger into it ;
add four glasses of sherry and five additional
pints of beer; stir it wen ; sweeten it to
your taste : ~et it stand covered up two or
three hours, then put three or four slices of
bl'ead cut thin and toasted brown into it,
and it is fit for use. Sometimes a couple or
  * Swig was formerly almoet exclusively confined t.o
Jesus College; it is now, however, a great favourite
throughout the University.
                           40

three slices of lemon, and a few lumps of
loaf sugar rubbed on the peeling of a lemon,
are introduced.
   Bottle this mixture, and in a few days it
may be drank in a state of effervescence.
   The Wassail Bowl, or Wassail Cup, was
formerly prepared in nearly the same ·way
as at present, excepting that roasted apples,
or crab apples, were introduced instead of
toasted bread. And up to the present period
in some parts of the kingdom, there are
persons who keep up the ancient custom
of regailing their friends and neighbours
on Christmas-eve and Twelfth-eve with a
Wassail Bowl, with roasted apples floating
in it, and which is generally ushered in with
great ceremony. Shakspeare alludes to the
Wassail Bowl when he says, in his Mid-
summer Night's Dream,
   Sometimes lurk I in a goesip's bowl,
   In: very likeness of a l'P88ted crab,
   And when she drinks,.against her lips I bob,
   And on her wither'd dewlap pour the ale.
                      41

              BROWN BETTY.
   Brown Betty does not differ materially
from the preceding; it is said to have
derived its name from one of the fair sex,
ycleped a bedmaker, who invariably recom-
mended the mixture so named as a never
failing panacea.

                    llecipe.
   Dissolve a quarter of a pound of brown
sugar in one pint of water, slice a lemon into
it, let it stand a quarter of an hour, then add
a . small quantity of pulverised cloves and
cinnamon, half a pint of brandy, and one
quart of good strong ale; stir it well to-
gether, put a couple of slices of toasted
bread into it, grate some nutmeg and ginger
on the toast, and it is fit for use. Ice it well
and it will prove a good summer, warm it
and it will become a pleasant winter, bever-
age. It is drank chiefly at dinner.
                          42

                  LAMBS WOOL.

    Next crowne the bowle full
    With gentle Lambs wooll,
        Adde sugar, nutmeg, and ginger,
    With store of ale too,
    And thus ye must doe
       To make the Wassaile a swinger.
              Herridt1 'l'weljth Night, or King and Quun.


   Lambs Wool is merely a vanety of the
Wassail Bowl, and although bot common in
Oxford, is a great favourite in, some parts of
England. The following is the origin of
tne term Lambs Wool, as applied to this
particular beverage. Formerly the first day
of November was dedicated to the Angel
presiding over fruits, seeds, &c., and was
therefore named La mas ubal,, that is, The
day of the apple fruit, and being pronounced
1.amasool, our country people have corrupted
it to Lambs Wool.•

 *See Col. Vallancy, Collect. de Reb. Hibern. iii. 441.
   Lambs Wool was anciently often met with
in Ireland,• but is now rarely heard of in
that country, having been entirely super-
seded by the more intoxicating liquor called
Whiskey.

                    lluipe.
  Mix the pulp of half a dozen roasted
apples with some raw sugar, a grated nut-
meg, and  a  small quantity of ginger. Add
one quart of strong ale made moderately
warm. Stir the whole well together, and,
if sweet enough, it is fit for use.

  This mixture is sometimes served up in
bowl, with sweet cakes floating in it.

          *Brand's Popul; Antiq. i. 821.




                                           "zenbvGoogle
              BRASENOSE ALE.

     Hie dies, anno redeunt.e festus.
     Corticem ada~ctUm pice dimovebit
     Amphone.
                            Dorat. lib. iii od. 8.

                          When the year
     Revolving bids this festal morn appear,
     We'll pierce a cask with mellow juice replete.
                                         Fr<Jft/JU.


  From the Foundation of Brasenose College
to the present time a custom has prevailed,
of introducing into the refectory on Shrov(}
Tuesday, immediately after dinner, what is
denominated Brasenose Ale, but which in
fact is a species of Lambs Wool.
  Verses in praise of Brasenose .Ale are an-
nually written by one of the Undergraduates
and a copy of them sent to every resident
member of the College.
  The following Stanzas are extracted from
a copy of recent date.
      Shall all our singing 11ow b.e o'er,
        Since Christmas carols fail?
      No ! let us ahonll one 8tailza more
        In praise of Brasenoee Ale !

      A. fig fOr Horaee ud ~ juice,
        Falernian and Maasic;
      Far better drink Call we prOduce,
        Though 'tis not quite so Classic.

     Not all the liquors Bame e'er ii.ad
       Can beat our matchless Beer;
     Apicius' self had gone stark mad,
       Te tast.e such noble cheer.


  Brasenose Verses are not always confined·
to the mere praise of the Beer, for sometimes
a particular circumstance or event which
may have happened du.ring the pas't year is
alluded to, as will be seen by the following
lines.

     See where yon goblet beaming
       Invites the wistful eye !
     Whose smile luxuriant gleaming
       Proclaima a fragrance nieh !
                    46

While gladsome spirits thronging round
 To taste its richness press;
And fair the scene, and loud the sound
 Of mirth and happiness !

Bright antidote of sorrow !
  Some kind enliTening ray
From thee we fain would borrow,
  To warm our grateful lay :
For oft I ween thy kindling glance
  The drooping heart hath cheered :
Poured round the soul a. joyous trance,
  And visions gay uprea.red.

Full many a day of gladness
  Hath hailed the welcome cheer;
Full many a. thought of sadness
  Hath fied, transported, here.
And still, through years of fleeting change,
  Ea.eh passing youthful train,
Ere it might tempt the wide world's range,
  Hath passed the cup to drain.

The sky that glows above us
  Rema.ins unchanged the same :
But will tbe friends that love us
  Preserve a changeless fia.me?
                    47

Forgetfnlneae, that chilling spell,
  Can freeze the ardent breast ;
And those we thought had loved us well,
  Will scorn us when distressed.

While warm affection glowing
  Bids mean suspicion fly,
Our youthful hearts bestowing
 On moat that hover nigh-
When outward promise seems sincere,
  And lasting all our joy-
Yet cherished hope, and feelings dear
  Unkindness may destroy.

The word of coldness spoken
  Inflicts a bitter smart ;
The tie of friendship broken
  Torments the aching heart :
But sadder far the hopeless pain,
  When death's remorseless hand
Hath all untimely snapped in twain
  Affection's golden band.

But, though our friends forget us,
  Let one kind thought restore
Their names, who once have met us
  But ne'er shall meet us more.




                                 oigi,,edbyGoogle
                          48

      And if, perchance, by memory's light
        Departed friends we view,
      Oh ! let that memory still be bright,
        And may our hearts be true !

      When last the cup was flowing,
       One sat within our Hai.!,
      Whose eye with kindness glowrng
       Inspire the festival.*         '
      But now that bright and honotired he.a d
       Rests in ~e darkling tomb;
      And ours it is to mourn the dead         \ '\

                                                      ~
       In unavailing gloom.

      Forgive the Muse, if, erring,
     , He drop a plaintful word :
      If, thoughts of sorrow stirring,                    \
         He strike too harsh a chord.
      We would not mar the festive scene,
         Nor give a wanton pain;
                                                              \
      And, though her strains have saddening been,
         She bids you smile again.


  *This passage alludes to the demise of an Under-
graduate, who at the preceding meeting had, by his
wit and humour, contributed much to the hilarity of his
fellow-students.
                         49

     In banquet-hall 'tie meetest
       To raise the echoing laugh :
     In jocund hour 'tie sweetest
       The bowl's deep flood to qi::Uf.
     Aye ! let your mirth be loud and long !
       Let voice and heart be free !
     And 'midst the din of shout and song
       Let all feast merrily !


     Go forth, my sons, to glory !
       Go climb the steeps of fame !
     Go ! and in future story
      Enrol your shining name !
     May no dark cloud obscure your sky;
      No fear your soul dismay;
     Nor keener sorrow dim your eye
       Than claims the tear to day !


                  lledpe.
   Three quarts of ale, sweetened with re-
fined sugar finely pulverised, and served
up in a bowl with six roasted apples floating
in it.


                                               E
                          50

                  METHEGLIN.
 Non Vitis, sed Apis succum tibi mitto bibendum,
 Quein legimus Bardos olim potasse Britannos.
 Qualibet in bacca Vitis Megera latescit,
 Qualibet in gutta Mellis Aglaia nitet.

 The juice of Bees, not Bacchus, here behold,
 Which British Bards were wont to quaff of old ;
 The berries of the grape with Furies swell,
 But in the honeycomb the Graces dwell.
                                       Howell.

  Metheglin is probably derived from the
Welch Meodyglyn,• a medical drink, and
was once the natural beverage of a great
part of this country, and according to some
authors is the Hydromelt of the ancients.
Howen,i in one of his familiar letters, on

  * Meddyglyn. Mimhew.
  t In fevers, the ailment.a prescribed by Hippocrates
were ptisans and cream of barley, hydromil, that is, honey
and water, where there was no tendency to delirium .
                                               .&rlmthoot.
  :j: James Howell, Clerk of the Privy Council in 1640,
and sometimes Fellow of Jesus College in this University.
                      51

presenting a friend with a bottle of Metheg-
lin, thus speaks of it; "Neither Sir John
" Barleycorn or Bacchus had anything to do
" with it, but it is the pure juice of the bee,
" ~he laborious bee, and the king of insects ;
"the Druids and old British Bards were wont
" to take a carouse hereof before they entered
"into their speculations, But this drink always
" carries a kind of state with it, for it must be
"attended with a brown toast; nor will it admit
" but of one good draught, and that. in the
" morning ; if more, it will keep a ltumming in
" the head, and so speak too much of the house
"it comes from, I mean, the hive."
   Indeed almost every other author who has
written on the subject affirms, that before
the introduction of Agriculture into this
island, honey diluted with water (i. e. Me-
theglin) was the only strong drink known
to, and was a great favorite among, the
Ancient Britons.
   Metheglin is usually divided into the
Simple and the Vinous. Simple Mctheglin
                       52

is that which has not been fermented, and
the Vinous is that which has obtained a
spirit by fermentation.
          VINOUS METHEGLIN.
   Take as much new honey separated from the
comb, which, when well mixed with water, will
be of such a consistency as to bear an egg ; boil
this liquor . for one hour; let it stand covered
up till the next morning, and if it is then quite
cold, put it into a cask. To every fifteen
gallons "add pulverized ginger, mace, cinnamon,
and cloves. of each an ounce. To promote
fermentation, put into the bunghole two table-
spoonfuls of yeast. When it has done working
stop it up, and in a month or six weeks it will
be in a fit state to be drawn off into bottles.
   Or put twenty-eight pounds of honey into
a nine-gallon cask with as much boiling
water as will fill it, and fermenting it with
yeast. Or boil the honey with the water, to
which a little hops or ginger may be added,
ferment, and bottle for use.
                          53

       MEAD AND BRAGGON, OR
                   BRAGG ET,
Do not differ materially from Metheglin ; they
are indeed varieties of the same. Howell
says, " they diffep in strength according to
"the three degrees of comparison, Metheglin
" being strong in the superlative, and if
" taken immoderately doth stupify more than
"any other liquor."
   The following are the methods of preparing
them.
   Mix the whites of six eggs with twelve gallons
of spring water ; add twenty pounds of the best
virgin honey and ,the peeling of three lemons;
boil it an hour, and then put into it some rose-
mary,• cloves, mace, and ginger; when it is
quite cold, add a spoonful or two of yeast, tun
it, and when it has done working, stop it up
close. In a few months bottle· it off, and
deposit it in a cellar of cool temperature.
   * The best honey known is that of Narbonne in
France, where rosemary abounds, it having a very strong
flavor of that plant.
                      54

  Some prefer it without the spices, others
without lemons.
  To each gallon of water add four pounds
of the whitest, purest, and best tasted honey,
and the peeling of two lemons; boil it half
an hour. Scum it when cold. Put it into
a cask, add some yeast to it; when it has
done fermenting, stop the cask up close, and
at the expiration of eight months bottle off.
  Ir" this liquor is properly kept, the taste of
the honey will go off, and it will resemble
Tokay both in strength and flavour.



   The following Cups are added to tlte
                original work.
               CLARET CUP.
  Two bottles of claret, two bottles of soda
water, one wine glass of brandy, half a wine
glass of curacoa, the peel of one lemon (very
thin), sweetened with capillaire or powdered
                      55

sugar according to taste, Wenham Lake Ice,
three or four sprigs of borage.
  Claret Cup should be made an hour previous
to the time wanted.         Mix the claret,
brandy, curacoa, capillaire, and lemon peel
together, then add the soda water, borage, and
Wenham Lake ice before useing it.

            CHAMPAGNE CUP.
  Two bottles of Champagne, two bottles of
soda water, half a wine glass of brandy, half a
wine glass of curacoa, the peel of one lemon
(very thin), Whenham Lake ice, one table-
spoonful of powdered sugar.

   Mix all the ingredients together except the
ice, which add when serving.

               MOSELLE CUP.
   Two bottles of sparkling Moselle, two bottles
 of soda water, half a wine glass of brandy, half
 a wine glass of curacoa, the peel of one lemon




                                   o; 9 ; ized by   Google
                     56

(peeled very thin), sweeten with capillaire to
taste, Wenham Lake ice.
  Mix all the above ingredients together then
add the ice when serving.




                  THE END.
- -~-   - """'Ill




            'I
J

1
                        •




·
      _,_ _Googleml.i
    o;g ,,, b,
