                  OXFORD
                                  4t?ap1.
                         BF.INOA



 COLLECTION OF RECEIPTS
                       J'OR MAKINO


                VARIOUS BEVERAGES

                         USED IN



          THE UNJV. ·" :ITY.


     Quid non ebrietu dnicnat ! Operta reclndit,
     S~ jubet esse rata1, In pmlia tradit inertem,
     8011iciti1 animi1 onus eKtmit, addocet artes.
     1''~ondi ulicet qoem non fecere dlsertom?
     Contracta qoem non in paupertate aolotom?
                                         Hor. lib. I. ep. 5.
     What cannot wine c:;rfnrm? It brioa• to licht
     '8f::~!:°t~J !,c!~ b~~~~~f:~fi~:: ~earu
     Drives the dull sorrow, and impire1 new arta.
     ~~"o~ i:,i~~~.-:.:r1~1[1~~r8."~.~'l:'t~ht
     ~vi:n 1!'nf:;;i:P;::~~ ,~:~~~~~rtfree.
                                          Pranct...



                    OXFORD,
              •·oa HENRY SLATI'ER;
ANO LONO!lolAN' 1 REES, ORME, BROWN, AND OltZl!:N,
                        LONDON,

                         1827.
Entmb at ~tatfontrs' Jllall.
                    CONTENTS..

                                      Page
 .Bishop, or Spiced Wine                 1
 Lawn Sleeves                           4
 Cardinal                               4
 Pope           .                       5
                                             " '>:
 Negus                                  5
 White Wine Negus                       6
 Port Wine Negus                        7
 Oxford Punch, or Classical Sherbet     8
 Spiced Punch                          11
 Tea Punch                             12
 Gin Punch                             12
 Red Punch                             13
, Punch Royal                          13
 1\filk Punch                          13
 Oxford Milk Punch                     14
 Norfolk Milk Punch                    15
 Restorative Punch, vulgo Storative    16
 Lemon Punch to keep                   16
 Egg Punch                 ..          17
                           IV

 Shrub Punch                                    18
Lemonade                                       18
Orangeade                                      19
Sir Fleetwood Fletcher's Sack Posset           19
White Wine Whey, or Milk Posset                21
Pepper Posset                                  21
Cider PoSJet                                   22
Perry Posset                                   22
Rum Booze, or Egg Posset                       23
Beer Flip      • • • •                         24.
Rumfustian                                     24
'fhe Oxford Grace Cup                          25
Cider Cup, or Cold Tankard                     27
Perry Cup                                      29
Beer Cup                                       29
Red Cup                                .A' •   29
'fhe Wusail Bowl, or Swig        .·            30
Brown Betty                                    32
Metheglin                                      33
Vinous Metheglin                               35
Mead and Braggoo, or Bragget                   36
                    OXFORD
            NIGHT CAPS,
                          <tc.

                       -
    BISHOP, OR SPICED WINE.

    Three cups of this a prudent man may take,
    The first of these for constitution's sake,
    The !Second to the girl be loves the be~t,
    The third and last to lull him to his rest.
                                   Ancient Fragment.

BISHOP seems to be one of the oldest
winter beverages known, and to this day is
preferred to every other, not only by the
yoothfal votary of Bacchus at his evening's
revelry, but also by the grave D<m by way
of a night cap; and probably derives its
name from the circumstance of ancient dig-
nitaries of the Church_, when they honoured
                           B
                     2
the University with a visit, being regaled
with spiced wine. It appears from a work
published some years since, and entitled,
Oz01iiana, or Anecdote& of the University of
Ozford, that in the .Rolls or Accounts of
some Colleges of ancient foundation, a sum
of money is frequently met with charged
"pro 8fJeciebw," that is, for spices used in
their entertainments; for in those days
as well as the present, spiced wine wa11 a
very fashionable beverage. lo the Compu-
tus of Maxtoke Priory, anno 1447, is the
following curious entry; " Item pro vino
cretico cum speciebus et confectis datis
diyersis generosis in die Saocti Dionysii
quando Le fole domini Montfordes erat hie,
et faceretjocositates suas in camera Orioli."
" ViJJum creticum" is supposed to be raisin
wine, or wine made of dried grapes; and the
meaning of the whole seems to be this : Paid
for raisin wine with comfits and spices, when
Sir S. Montford's fool was here, and exhi-
bited his merriments in the Oriel chamber.
                      3
                   Recipe.
   Make several incisions in the rind of a
lemon, 11tick cloves in the incis~ons, and
roast the lemon by a slow fire. Put small
but equal quantities of cinnamon, cloves,
mace, and all-spice, and a race of ginger,
into a saucepan, with half a pint of water;
let it boil until it is reduced one half. Boil
one bottle of port wine ; burn a portion of
the spirit out of it, by applying a lighted
paper to the saucepan. Put the roasted
lemons and spice into the wine; stir it ttp
well, and let it stand near the fire ten mi-
nutes. Rub a few knobs of sugar on the
rind of a lemon, put the sugar into a bowl
or jug, with the juice of half a lemon, (not
roasted,) pour the wine upon it, grate some
nutmeg into it, sweeten it to your taste, and
serve it up with the lemon and spice floating
in it.

  Oranges, although not used in Bishop at
Oxford, are, as will appear by the following
                       82
                         4
lines, written by Swift, sometimes intro-
duced into that beverage.
                          Fine oranges
  Well roasted, with sugar and wine in a cup,
  They'll make a sweet Bishop when gentlefolb sup.



                      -
   LAWN SLEEVES, CARDINAL,
                 AND POPE,
Owe their origin to some Brasen-nose Bac-
chanalians, and differ only from Bishop, as
the species from the genus.

            LAWN SLEEVES.
   Substitute madeira or sherry for port
wine, and add three glasses of hot calves-
feet jelly.

                CARDINAL.
   Substitute claret for port wine ; in other
respects the same as Bishop.
                     5

                  POPE.
   Precisely the same as Bishop, with the
exception of champagne being used instead
of port wine.



                  -
                 NEGUS.
   Negus is a modern beverage, and, ac-
cording to Malone, derives its name from
its inventor, Colonel Negus. Dr. Willich, in
his " Lectures on Diet and Regimen," says,
that Negus is one of the most innocent and
wholesome species of drink; especially if
Seville oranges be added to red port wine,
instead of lemons; and drunk moderately, it
possesses considerable virtues in strength-
ening the stomach ; but, on account of the
volatile and heating oil in the orange peel,
Negus, if taken in great quantities, is more
stimulant and drying than pure wine.
                      B3
                       6
        WHITE WINE NEGUS.
   Extract the juice from the peeling of one
lemon, by rubbing loaf sugar on it; or cut
 the peeling of a lemon extremely thin, and
 pound it in a mortar. Cut tw.o lemons into
thin slices; four glasses of calves-feet jelly
in a liquid state ; small quantities of cinna-
mon, mace, cloves, and all-spice. Put the
whole into a jug, pour one quart of boiling
water upon it, cover the jug close, let it
stand a quarter of an hour, and then add
one bottle of boiling hot white wine. Grate
half a nutmeg into it, stir it well together,
sweeten it to your taste, and it is fit for use.
   Seville oranges are not generally used at
Oxford in making Negus ; when they are,
one orange is allowed to each bottle of
wine.

   COLD WHlTE WINE NEGUS.
  To make cold white wine Negus, let the
mixture stand until it is quite cold, and then
pour a bottle of white wine into it.
                      7
   It is sometimes in the summer season
placed in a tub of ice ; when that is done
it will be necessary to make the Negus
somewhat sweeter, as extreme cold detracts
from the sweetness of liquors.


        PORT WINE NEGUS.
  In making port wine Negus, merely omit
the jelly; for when port wine comes in con-
tact with -calves-feet jelly, it immediately
assumes a disagreeable muddy appearance.

   Negus is not confined to any particular
11orts of wine ; if the jelly is omitted, it can
be made with any, or several sorts mixed
together.




                      B4
                          8

OXFORD PUNCH, OR CLASSICAL
                   SHERBET.
      When e'en a bowl of punch we make,
      Four striking opposites we take ;
      The strong, the small, the sharp, the sweet,
      Together mix'd; most kindly meet;
      And when they happily unite,
      1'he bowl is pregnant with delight.

    The liquor called Punch has become so
 truly English, it is 'often supposed to be in-
 digenous to this country, though its name al
 least is oriental. The Per11ian punj, or San-
scrit pancha, i. e. 6ve; is the etymon of its
title,· and denotE:s the number of ingredients
of which it i11 composed. Addison's foa:-
/,unter, who testified so much surprise when
he found, that of the materials of which this
" truly English" beverage was made, only
the water belonged to England, would have
been more astonished had his informant also
told him, that it derived even its name from
the East.
                      9
   Various opinions are entertained respect··
ing this compound drink. Some authors
praise it as a cooling and refreshing beverage,
when drank in moderation ; others condemn
the use of it, as prejudicial to the brain and
nervous system. Dr. Cheyne, a celebrated
Scotch physician, author of" An Essay on
Long Life and Health," and who by a system
of diet and regimen reduced himself from
the enormous weight of thirty-two. stone to
nearly one third, which enabled him to liv.e
to the age of seventy-two, insists, that there
is but ·one wholesome ingredient in it, and
that is the water. Dr. Willich, on the con-
trary, asserts, that if a proper quantitr of
acid be used in making Punch, it is an ex-
cellent antiseptic, and well calculated to.
supply the place of wine in resisting putre-
faction, especially if drank cold with plenty
of sugar; it als~promotes perspiration; but
if drank hot and immoderately, it creates
acidity in the stomach, weakens the nerves,
and gives rise to complaints of the breast.
                          10
He further states, that after a heavy meal it
i& improper, as it may check digestion, and
injure the stomach•.

                       Recipe.
   Extract the juice from the rind of three
lemons, by rubbing loaf sugar on it.
The peeling of two Seville oranges and two
lemons, cut extremely thin. The juice of
four Seville oranges and ten lemons. Six
glasses of calves-feet jelly in a liquid state.
The above to be put into a jug, and stirred
well together. Pour two quarts of boiling
water on the mixture, cover the jug closely,
and place it near the fire for a quarter of an
hour. Theo strain the liquid through a sien
into a punch bowl or jug, sweeten it with a
bottle of capillaire, and add half a pint of
white wine, a pint of French brandy, a pint
                                  ..
  • Fielding mentions a Clergyman who preferred
Punch to Wine for this orthodox reason, that the former
was a liquor no where spakeo against in Scripture.
                          ll
of Jamaica rum. and a bottle of orange
shrub; the mixture to be stirred as the spi-
rits are poured in. If not sufficiently sweet,
add loaf sugar gradually in small quantities.
or a spoonful or two of capillaire. To be
served up either hot or cold ~. The Oxford
Pooch, when made with half the quantity
of spirituous liquors, and placed in an ice
tub for a short time, is a pleasant summer
beverage.
   In making this Punch, limes are some-
times used instead of lemons, but they are
by no means so wholesome•.

              SPICED PUNCH.
   Boil a small quantity of each sort of
spice in half a pint of water, until it is re•

  b Ignorant servants and waiters sometimes put oxalic
acid into punch to g!ve it a flavour; such a practice can
not be too severely censured.
  c Arburthnot, in bis work on aliments, says, " the
West India dry gripes are occasioned by lime juice in
Punch."
                    12
duced one half; add it to the ingredients
which compose the Oxford Punch, and
grate a whole nutmeg into it. Spiced
Punch, if bottled off as soon as it is cold,
with the spice in it, will keep good several
days.

             TEA PUNCH.
   Green tea is the basis of this Punch; and
although Tea Punch is seldom made in
Oxford, it nevertheless has been much
ei1teemed by those who have partaken of it.
It is invariably drank hot. It is made pre-
cisely in the same way as the Oxford
Puuch, excepting that the jelly is omitted,
and green tea supplies the place of water.

             GIN PUNCH.
  The same as Oxford Punch, only omit
the rum, brandy, and shrub, and substitute
two bottles of gin.
                     13
               RED PUNCH.
   Substitute port wine for white, and red
currant jelly for calves-feet jelly ; in other
respect11 the same as Oxford Punch. If drank
in the summer, let it stand until it is cold,
and then put it into a bucket of ice. · Oare
must be taken that the ice water does not
get into the jug which contains this Punch.

            PUNCH ROY AL.
   Extract the juice from the peeling of a
lemon, by rubbing loaf sugar on it. Pour
one pint of boiling water on it. Add the
juice of six lemons, one pint of rum, and a
pint of port wine. Sweeten it to your taste,
and it is fit for use.

              MILK PUNCH.
   Warm two quarts of water and one of
new milk, then mix them well together,
and sweeten it with a sufficient quan~
tity ofloaf sugar. Rub a few knobs of loaf
sugar on the peeling of a lemon ; put them
                      14

 into a jug with the above, and pour into it
 gradually half a pint of lemon juice, stirring
the mixture as it is poured in. Then add
one quart of white brandy. Strain it through
a flannel bag or a fine hair sieve. Bottle it
off, and if placed in a cool cellar it will
keep ten days or a fortnight. Jellies are
sometimes used in making this Punch, but
they are not necessary, as the milk will suf-
ficiently temper the acrimony of the lemon
juice.


      OXFORD MILK PUNCH ..
   Dissolve two pounds and a half of double
refined sugar in one gallon of cold spring
water; add to it a quarter of a pint of
orange flower water, the juice of twenty
limes and eight pot oranges. Stir it well
together; pour one quart of boiling milk
into it, and then add three quarts of white
brandy and three quarts of orange brandy
shrub; strain it through a flannel bag or fine
                     15
hair sieve. Take out what is wanted for
present use, and bottle off the remainder.

      NORFOLK MILK PUNCH. ·
   Cut the peeling of six Seville oranges and
11ix lemons extremely thin. Pound it in a
stone mortar. Add thereto a pint of brandy,
and let it remain about six hours ; then
squeeze the juice of six Seville oranges and
eight lemons into it. Stir it well, and pour.
into it three more pints of brandy, three
pints of rum, and three quarts of water.
Make two quarts of skimmed milk boiling
hot ; "grate a nutmeg into it ; mix it gradu-
ally with the other ingredients ; add a suffi-
cient quantity of fine loaf sugar to sweeten
it, (about two pounds.) Stir it tiU the sugar
is dissolved. Let the mixture stand twelve
hours, then strain it through a flannel bag
till it is quite clear. It is then fit for use.
It has been said, that if this P.unch is bot-
tled off and well corked, it wiJl keep in any
climate, and for any length of time.
                           ,16
    The bottles it i11 put into must be per-
 fectly dry.

     RESTORATIVE PUNCH, vulgo
           STORATIVE.
   Extract the juice from the peeling of one
Seville orange and one lemon; the juice of
six Seville oranges and six lemons, SUt
glaHes of calves-feetjelly in a liquid state,
a sufficient quantity of loaf sugar, (about
half a pound;) put the whole into a jug,
pour on it one quart of boiling water ; add
four glasses of brandy, stir it well together,
and it is fit for use•.

       LEMON PUNCH TO KEEP.
   Cut the rind off six lemons if large, eight
if small, squeeze out the juice, put the
rind and the juice together, and add one

   c Many of the first RtatPsmen of the present day
(ahould they see this) will recognize it as the liquor in-
variably drank by them at College before they attended
their debating parties.
quart of white brandy. Let it remain close-
ly covered for three or four days.
   Let the juice of six or eight additional
lemons be squeezed into two quarts of water,
put into it a sufficient quantity of double
refined sugar to sweeten the whole. Boil it
well, and when quite cold, pour into it a
bottle of sherry or madeira. Then mix it
well with the lemon and brandy, and, if
sufficiently sweet, strain it through a flannel
bag into a small cask. At the expiration of
three months bottle it oft", and if the bottles
are well corked and kept in a cool place,
it will be fit to drink in a month.

              EGG PUNCH.
   One ·quart of cold water, the juice of six
iemons and six pot oranges, four· glasses of
calves-feet jelly in a liquid state; atir the
whole well together ; let it remain covered
over for half an hour ; then strain it through
a hair sieve, and add to it one bottle of ca-
pillaire, two glasses of sherry, half a pint of
                       c
                     18

·brandy, and one bottle of ·orange shrub.
 Put some pulverised sugar and ten fresh-
 laid hens' eggs into a bowl, beat them well
 together, and gradually unite the two mix-
 tures by keeping the eggs well stirred as it
 is poured in ; then whip it with a whisk un-
 til a fine froth rises, and if sweet enough it
 is fit for immediate use.
     This Punch should be drank as soon as
 it is made, for if kept any length of time
 it will turn sour.
     Omit the wine and spirits, and freeze the
  remainder, and a mould of ice may be ob-
  tained equal to any in use.

            SHRUB PUNCH.
  To make the above into Shrub Punch of
a superior flavour and quality to that in ge-
neral use, merely leave out the eggs.

                 LKMONADE.

   To convert Egg Punch into a delicious
 Lemonade, leave out the wine, spirits, and
                         19

oranges, and add the juice of four more le-
mons and a proportionate quantity of sugar.

                  ORANGEADE.

    The mixture may also be made into
Orangeade by omitting the wine, spirits,
and lemons, and squeezing into it the juice
of twelve oranges in addition to those men-
tioned in the recipe for Egg Punch.


                     -
                    POSS ET.
 From fam'd Barbadoes, on the western main,
 Fetch sugar, ounces four ; fetch sack from Spain
 A pint; and from the Eastern Indian coast
 Nutmeg, the glory of our northern toasl;
 0 'er ftaming coals let them together heat,
 Till the all-conquering sack dissolve the sweet ;
 O'er such another fire put eggs just ten,
 New-born from tread of cock and rump of hen;
 Stir them with steady hand and conscience pricking,
 To see th' untimely end of ten fine chicken :
 From shining shelf take down the brazen skellet,
 A quart of milk from gentle cow will fill it ;
                       c2
                         20
  When boil'd and cold, put milk and sack to eggs,
  Unite them firmly like the triple league,
  And on the fire let them together dwell
  Till miu sing twic-you must not k.iu and tell :
  Each lad and lass take up a silver spoon,
  And fall on fiercely like a starv'd dragoon.'
                    Sir Flatwood Fldchn-'1 Sack Pouet~

   Posset, it seems, is a medicated drink of
some antiquity ; for among the numerous
English authors who in some way or other
speak of it, our immortal Bard Shakspeare
has made one of his characters say, " We'll
have a Posset at the latter end of a sea coal
fire." And Sir John Suckling, who died.in
1641, says, in one of his poems," In came
the bridemaids with the Posset." Dr. John-
son describes Posset to be milk curdled
with wine and other acids;· we may there-
fore with propriety infer, that the White Wine
Whey so common in Oxford is the Milk
Posset of our forefathers.
                        21

WHITE WINE WHEY, OR MILK
         POSSET.
   Put one pint of milk into a saucepan, and
when it boils pour into it one gill of white
-wine; boil it till the curd becomes hard,
then strain it through a fine sieve; rub a
few knobs of loaf sugar on the rind of a
lemon, put them into the Whey ; grate a
small quantity of nutmeg into it; sweeten it
to your taste, and it is fit for use.


            PEPPER POSSET.
   The more to promote perspiration, whole
pepper is sometimes boiled in the Whey, but
all-spice is far preferable.
  A Pepper Posset was known to the learned
and ingenious John Dryden, as will appear
by the following lines written by him;

   A sparing diet did her health assure ;
   Or sick, a pepper posset was her cure.
                       c3
                       22
             CIDER POSSET.
   Pound the peeling of a lemon in a mortar,
 pour on it one quart of fresh drawn cider;
 sweeten it with double refined sugar, add
one gill of brandy, and one quart of milk
from the cow, stir it well together,,straio it
through· a fine hair sieve or a flannel bag,
then grate a nutmeg into it, and it is fit
for use.
            PERRY POSSET
is prepared in the same way, excepting
that perry is used instead of cider.
   There are other Possets, which have milk
for their basis, in u&e in different parts of the
conotry, sueh, for instance, as Treacle Beer
and Orange Posset: · but as they are seJdom
if ever made in Oxford, it is not oece11ary
that anyi thing ·further should be said of
them.
  The following have an affinity to, and
possibly derive their origin from, Sir Fleet-
wood Fletcher's Sack Posset.
                       23
 RUM BOOZE, OR EGG POSSETb.
   The yolks of eight eggs well beaten up, with
some refined sugar pulverized, and a grated
nutmeg; extract the juice from the rind of a
lemon by rubbing loaf sugar on it; put the
sugar, a piece of cinnamon, and a bottle of
white wine, into a clean saucepan ; when the
wine boils take it off the fire ; pour one glass
of cold white wine into it, put it into a
spouted jug, and pour it gradually among
the yolks of eggs, &c. keeping them well
stirred with a spoon as the wine is poured
in; if not sweet enough, add a small quantity
of loaf sugar; then pour the mixture as swift
as possible from one vessel to the other
until a fine white froth is obtained. Half a
pint of rum is sometimes added, but it is
then very intoxicating. Port wine is some-
times substituted for white, but is not con-
sidered so palatable. This liquor should be
drank when quite hot. If the wine is poured

      b It is sometimes deno~inated Egg Flip.

                         c4
                     24
~boiling hot among the eggs, the      mi~ture
 will become ·curdled.


                BEER FLIP.
   Beer ilip is made the same way and with
 the same materials as the preceding, ex-
 cepting that one quart of strong home-
 brewed beer is substituted for the wine;
 a glass of gin is sometimes added, but it is
 better without it. This beverage is generally
 given to servants at Christmas, and other
 bigh festivals of our Churcb.



              RUMFUSTIAN.
   ~be yolks of twelve    eggs, one quart of
 strong beer, one bottle of white wine, half a
 pint of gin, a grated nutmeg, the juice from
 the peeling of a lemon, a small quantity of
 cinnamon, and sufficient sugar to sweeten it;
 prepared precisely in the same way as Rum
 Booze.
                        '25

   Such is the intoxicating property of this
liquor, that, none but bard drinkers will
venture to regale themselves with it a second
time.


                      -
   THE OXFORD GRACE CUP.
      The grace cup serv'd, the cloth away,
      Jove thought it time to shew his play.
                                          Prior.

   The ancient Grace Cup was a vessel pro-
portioned to the number of the company
assembled, which went round the table, the
guests drinking out of the same cup one
after another. Virgil describes something
like it, when, speaking of the entertainment
Queen Dido gave to .lEneas, he say11,
  Postquam prima quies epulis, memeque remotm ;
  Crateras magnoa statuunt, et vina coronant.
  • • ••• •• • • •
  Hie regina gravem gemmia auroque poposcit
  Implevitque mero pateram : • • • •
  • • • • • • • • • •
                        26
 Primaque libato s11mmo tenus attigit ore.
 Tum Bitiie dedit increpitana: ille impiger hauait
 Spumantem pateram, et pleno se proluit auro.
 Post alii proceres.

It has been the custom from time imme-
morial, at the civic feasts in Oxford, for the
Grace Cup to be introduced before the re-
moval of the cloth, when the Mayor receives
the Cup standing ; his right and left hand
guests also rise from their seat.'I while he
gives the toast, which, since the Reforma-
tion, bas been, " Church and King." The
Cup is then handed round the table, no one
presuming to apply his lips to it until two
persons have risen from their seat.'I. The
origin of this custom is ascribed by our
antiquaries to the practice of the Danes
heretofore in England, who frequently used
to stab or cut the throats of the natives
while they were drinking, the persons stand-
ing being sureties that the one holding the
cup should come to no harm while par-
taking of it.
                         27
                     Recipe.
   Extract the juice from the peeling of a
lemon, and cut the remainder into thin slices;
put it into a jug or bowl, and pour on it three
half pints of strong home-brewed beer• and
a bottle of mountain wine; grate a nutmeg
into it; sweeten it to your taste; stir it tilt
the sugar is dissolved, and then add three
 or four slices of bread toasted brown. Let it
 stand two hours, and then strain it oft" iato
 the Grace Cup.


CIDER CUP, OR COLD TANKARD.
    Extract the juice from the peeling of one
 lemon by rubbing loaf sugar on it; cut two
 lemons into thin slices ; the rind of one
 lemon cut thin, a quarter of a pound of loaf
  sugar, and half a pint of brandy. Put the
  whole into a large jug, mix it well together,
   c Home-brewed beer is here recommended, as the
 common brewers too frequently mix with their beer sul·
 phuric acid, copperas, tobacco, capsicum, cocculus
 lndicus, coriander seeds, allum, and burnt sugar.
                           28

and pour one quart of cold spring water
upon it. Grate a nutmeg into it, add one pint ,
of white wine and a bottle of cider, sweeten
it to your taste with capillaire or sugar, put
a handful of balm and the same quantity of
borage d in flower (b<Yrago ojficina.liB) into
it, stalk downwards. Then put the jug con-
taining this liquor into a tub of ice, and


    d " The sprigs of borage in wine are of known virtue,
 to revive the hypochondriac, and cheer the bard st11-
dent." Evelyn'• Acetm-ia, p. 18. "Borage is one of
 the fo11r cordial Bowers; it comforts the heart, cheers
 melancholy, and revives the fainting spiri~." Salmon'1
 Houuhold Companion, London, 1710. " Borage has the
credit of being a great cordial; throwing it into cold wine
is better than all the medicinal preparations." Sir John
Hill, M.D.
   " The leaves, Bower.i, and seed of borage, all or any
of them, are good to expel penaiveneas and melancholy."
  The English PhysiciQn.
   " Balm is very good to help digestion and open obstruc-
tions of the brain, and bath so much purging quality in it,
as to expel those melancholy vapoun from the spirits and
blooJ which are in the heart and arteries, although it
cannot do so in other parts of the body.... Ibid,
                     29
when it has remained there one hour it is fit
for use. The balm and borage should be
fresh gathered.

               PERRY CUP.
   Merely substitute perry for cider.

                BEER CUP.
  One quart of strong beer instead of cider
or perry. The other ingredientH the same
as in cider cup.

                 RED CUP.
   Use one pint of port wine instead of
white ; sometimes two glasses of red currant
jelly are added. In other respects the same
as cider cup, excepting that warm water is
 used to dissolve the jelly.
                        30
 THE WASSAIL BOWL, OR SWIG.
    Sir, quod he, Watsayll, for never days of your lyf
ne drouk. ye of such a cuppe. Ancient MS.

     The W a&1ail Bowl, or Swig, as it is
 termed at Jesus College in this University, is
 of considerable antiquity, and up to this time
 is a great favourite with the sons of Cam-
 bria; so much so, indeed, that a party sel-
 dom dines or sups in that College without
 its forming a part of th~ir entertainmente.
 On the festival of St. David, Cambria's
 tutelary Saint, an immense silver gilt bowl,
 containing ten gallons, aud: which was pre-
.sented to Jesus College by Sir Watkin W.
 Wynne in 1732, is filled with Swig, and
 handed round to those who are invited on
 that occasion to sit at their festive . and
 hospitable board. The following is the
 method of manufacturing it at that College.

   e Swig was formerly almost exclusively confined to
Jesus College; it is now, however, a great favourite
throughout the University.
                      31
   Put into a bowl half a pound of Lisbon
sugar; pour on it one pint of warm beer;
grate a nutmeg and some ginger into it: add
four glasses of sherry and five additional
pints of beer; stir it well; sweeten it to your
taste : let it stand covered up two or three
hours, then put three or four slices of bread
 cut thin and toasted brown into it, and it is fit
 for use. · Sometimes a couple or three slices
 of lemon, and a few lumps of loaf sugar
 rubbed on the peeling of a lemon, are
 introduced.
     Bottle this mixture, and in a few days it
  may be drank in a state of effervescence.
     The Wassail Bowl, or Wassail Cup, was
  formerly prepared in nearly the same way
  as at present, excepting that roasted apples,
  or crab apples, were introduced instead of
  toasted bread. And up to the present pe-
   riod, in some parts of the kingdom, there are
   persons who keep up the ancient custom of
   regaling their friends and neighbours on
    Christmas-eve and Twelfth-eve with a Was-
                       32
sail Bowl, with roasted apples floating in it,
and which is generally ushered in with- great.
ceremony. Shakspeare alludes to the Was-
sail Bowl when he· says, in his Midsummer
Night's Dream,
   Sometimes lurk I in a gossip's bowl,
   In very likeness of a roasted crab,
   And when she drinks, against her lips I bob,
    And on her wither'd dewlap pour the ale.      ·;



                     -
            BROWN BETTY.
   Brown Betty does not differ materially
from the preceding; it is said to have de-
rived its name from one of the fair sez,
ycleped a bedmaker, who invariably recom-
mended the mixture so named as a never
failing panacea.

                      Recipe.
  Dissolve a quarter of a pound of brown
sugar in one pint of water, slice a lemon
                         33
into it, let it stand a quarter of an hour,
then add a small quantity of pulverized
cloves and cinnamon, half a pint of brandy,
and one quart of good strong ale ; stir it
well together, put a couple of slices of
toasted bread into it, grate some nutmeg
and ginger on the toast, and it is fit for use.
Ice it well and it will prove a good summer,
warm it and it will become a pleasant win-
ter, beverage.      It is drank chiefty at
dinner.


                       -
                METHEGLIN.
  Non Vitis, sed Apis succum tibi mitto bibendum,
  Quern legimus Bardos olim potasse Britannos.
  Qualibet in bacca Vitis Megera latescit,
  Qualibet in gutta Mellis Aglaia nitet.

  The juice of Beea, not Bacchus, here behold,
  Which Britiah Bards were wont to quaft' of old;
  The berries of the grape with Fwies swell,
  But in the honeycomb the Graces dwell,
                                            Howell.
                          D
                              34
    Metheglin is probably derived from the
 Welch Medclygllyn, a medical drink, and
 was once the natural beverage of a great
 part of this country, and according to some
 authors is the Hydromel • of the ancients~
  Howell h, in one of his familiar letters, on
 presenting a friend with a bottle of Metheglin,
 thu& speaks of it; "Neither Sir John
 " Barleycorn or Bacchus had any thing to do
 " with it, but it is the pure juice of the Bee,
 " the laborious bee, and the king of insects;
 " the Druids and old British Bards were
 " wont to take a carouse hereof before
 " they entered into their speculations. But
·"this drink always carries a kind of state
  " with it, for it must be attended with a
  " brown toast; nor will it admit but of one

   • In fevers, the aliments prescribed by Hippocrates
 were ptisans and cream of barley, hydr11mel, that is,
 honey and water, where there was no tendency to
 delirium. Arbuthnot.
    b James Howell, Clerk of the Privy Council in 1640,
 and sometime Fellow of Jesus College in this Uuiversity •.




                    ' .... ·:..1 ,.
                  ~.~~q;;°
