I   I
Tlb.e Gentlem.an 1 s Com.Jll>anio:n

  A N EX OTIC DRIN K I N G BOOK
THE MINT JULEP IS ONE OF MANKIND'S
    TRULY CIVILIZED INVENTIONS
                                The
    Gent Renn.an 9 § C([))nn. pani([))n

                            VOLUME II
    BEING AN EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK
    OR, AROUND THE WORLD WITH /IG.GER,
            BEAKER AND FLASK


                  By Charles H. Baker, Jr.
@
@
IINCLUDING:
   A personally collected Regiment of World-Famous Lively L iquid
   Masterpieces from Greater & Lesser Ports of 01·ient & Occident,
@ & the South Seas.

I NOT FORGETTING:
   The Proper &. Civilized Service of Beverages with Foods, together
   with Proven Formulae for Ho me Construction of Certain Bitters,
@ Wines, Meads & Cordials; a Meaty Kernel of Advice for Those
~  Departing for the Bars, & in the Last a Sextet of Temperance
~  Delights, & a Platoon of Picker-Uppers of Proven Worth &
@ DisC1'etion.
@1~~~~~~~~1

@      Published by THE DERRYDALE PRESS at       cl
@ 127 East Thirty-Fourth Street : : : : NEW YORK ~


t=~~i
   TWELVE HUNDRED AND FIFTY COPIES OF

      "THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION"

  HAVE BEEN PRINTED BY EUGENE V. CONNETT

          AT THE DERRYDALE PRESS

              THIS IS No.   f/I




COPYRIGHT, 1939, BY THE DERRYDALE PRESS, INC.




           PRINTED IN THE U. S. A.
    Drink no longer Water but use a little Wine for thy
    Stomach's sake and thine often Infirmities . . .

                              Saint Paul, the Apostle,
                              1 Timothy, V. 23


I




                                          ~-----
               DEDICATION
To all that Company of Friends, from Pine to Palm,
with whom we have So Happily Raised the GJass.
                             CONTENTS

    A Foreword                               xiii

    A Design for Drinking                      I


    A Company of 267 Assorted Potatioos .

    Kernels of Advice

    Miscellaneous Bar Equipment

    The Liquids Themselves .                 180



    Notes on the Care and Service of Wines

    Index




•
                       A FOREWORD
ONE       COMFORTABLE fact gleaned from travel in far countries was that
 regardless of race, creed or inner metabolisms, mankind has always
 created varying forms of stimulant liquid-each after his own kind.
 Prohibitions and nations and kings depart, but origin of such pleasant
 fluid finds constant source.
    F ermentation and the art of distilling liquors over heat became
 good form about the time our hairy forefathers began sketching mas-
 todon and sabretooth tiger on their cave foyers. Elixir of fruit juice,
 crushed root and golden honey date back to the dawn of time and far
 beyond the written word, to when the old gods ' were young and
 stalked abroad upon business with goddesses, when Pan piped the
 dark forest aisles and Centaurs pawed belly deep in fern.
    The Phoenicians, the Pharaohs, the first agrarian Chinese, all an-
cient races on earth buried jars of wine or spirits with their dead
 alongside the money and food and weapons and wives, so the departed
might find reasonable comfort and happiness in the hereafter.
    Go to Africa and the poorest Kaffir cheers life with-and for all of
us he can have it-warm millet beer. We just returned from Mexico
and can affirm that our Yucatecan most certainly ripped the bud out
of his Agave Americana and drank the fermented pulque-a fluid
which tastes faintly like mildewed donkeys-centuries before Mon-
tezuma's parents journeyed southward to the Valley of Cortez. We
found additional evidence after three voyages to Zamboanga in Philip-
pine Mindanao-where the monkeys have no tails-that the more
agile Moro shinnied up his cocopalm and slashed the flower bud with
his bolo; caught the saccharine drip-and an astounding menagerie
of assorted squirt-ants-in a fermentation joint of bamboo, long be-
fore the Spanish Inquisition or Admiral Dewey steamed into Manila
Bay.
   In Samoa the loveliest tribal virgin chews the kava root for the cere-
monial bowl when your yacht sails into her lagoon, and the resultant
fluid furnishes a sure ticket to amiable paralysis of the lower limbs.

                                • Xlll •
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

 China and Japan have for centuries had their rice wine and saki. The
 Russian made his vodka from cereals, the blond Saxon his honey
 mead, the Hawaiian his okolehao from roots or fruits. We've been
 often to the Holy Land and have flown across to Transjordania and
 the rose-red city of Petra, and can bear witness that those grapes
Moses the Lawgiver found in the Promised Land weren't all of a type
suitable for raisins.
   To any reasonable mind this past and present testimony of mankind
through the ages would indicate that some sort of fluid routine will
continue for many centuries to come. With adventurers like Marco
Polo, Columbus, Tavernier and Magellan, there was a vast national
introduction and interchange of beverages. For better or worse both
conquistador and native sampled, discarded or adapted an incredible
addition of liquid blends and formulae.
   Through rigour or amiability of climate, through physical, racial
and psychological characteristics of the individuals themselves, from
the cocoon of this pristine field work there emerged an equally in-
credible list of drinks-mixed or otherwise-which for one reason or
another have stood the test of time and taste and gradually have be-
come set in form. They have become traditional, accepted in ethical
social intercourse. And it is with the more civilized family of these
that we are concerned in this volume; not the pulques and warm
mealie beer or fermented Thibetan yak milk.
   Now at this point we prefer firmly to go on record that we find
scant humour in dipsomania, or in potted gentlemen who in their
cups beat girl-wives, or in horny-handed toilers of any class who
fling their weekly pay chits onto the public mahogany while tearful
mates and hungry infant mouths await by a cold hearth. We promptly
grant the evils of strong drink just as we concede that stuffing the ali-
mentary tract with French pastry, bonbons, pigs' knuckles and hot
breads; with tea, coffee, sarsaparilla or orange water ice, can insure a
flabby paunch and fatty degeneration of the heart.
   Even though we come from a line of Revolutionary British Colo-
nials whose homestead by the Schuylkill embraced most of what is

                                . xiv .
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

now Fairmount Park it seemed unprofitable to be secretive that the
far-sighted Father of our Country ran up the fattest cellar bill the
White House, then or present, ever knew; or that further he oper-
ated his own home brew concession at Mount Vernon, with Martha
skimming the crocks with her own prim hand. Certainly on a joyful
recent summer, sampling our way from inn to inn through the Brit-
ish countryside, as we stood in Jourdans meeting house yard by the
grave of William Penn, lying properly beside his two wives, none of
his worth was shrunk one jot through meditating that this Puritanical
Quaker who dreamed he was almighty God and talked King James
out of Pennsylvania and the Indians out of their furs, also showed
sound material sense by building and owning the first brewery in the
new world.
  In our own unregenerate way we prefer hone!,lit confession right
here at the start. That per hour of elapsed time, man and boy, we
probably have been happier when mildly looking into the ruddy cup
than at other times. Even granting our lethal morning-after disease
we question if willingly we would exchange even our hunting, fish-
ing or blue water sailing experiences for those mellow and gorgeously
spiffed hours!

WHAT IMPORTANT adult event, for instance, could ever approach that
gorgeous moment when the headmaster of a certain private school,
whose name is not pertinent to mention, opened up our graduation
gift to him: a stuffed ostrich bought in company with two useless
kindred souls out of an Atlanta pawn shop? . . . Or the time we led,
carried, coaxed and boosted the Holstein heifer, who proved not en-
tirely neat and very, very expensive, up the spiral stairs to the college
belfry after winning a certain crucial football game?
   Then how about the time after the Art Students' League Ball on
57th Street, across from licit Carnegie Hall, and we went with a girl
who unexpectedly turned out to be painted half in gold and half in
silver under her evening wrap; later ending up in our Arab Sheikh's
burnous and red turned-up-toe shoes doing telemark turns through
                                 . xv.
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

the snow to lace a pink satin corset on the front of General Sherman's
statue at the Plaza? Does anyone dream that raspberry vinegar could
produce a triumph like that?
   We also doubt if any lemonade social ever afforded a thrill like the
moonlit night in Ceylon when we went to a Hollander friend's beach
bungalow out beyond Galle Face, where we swam in the blood-warm
Indian Ocean and drank enough of his Flying Fish cocktails to do,
and lay on the cool sand and listened to Tauber sing Dein lst Mein
Ganzes Herz on the gramophone. Then when we swam again we
slipped out of our suits to make the water feel better, and finally, when
it was very late indeed, we dressed and said goodnight and vowed
eternal friendship to our host; then for precisely no reason at all dis-
missed our waiting carriage with a flourish of gross overpayment and
walked all the way back in our evening clothes through a new quiet
rain to the jetties and the motor launch, just in time to prevent one of
our best American cruising friends from consummating bribery of the
Quartermaster on the good ship RESOLUTE into letting him hoist
a purchased baby girl elephant-whom he said was Edith, and over
whom he politely held a Burmese parasol of scarlet oiled silk-from
a hired barge onto the forward cargo hatch in a sling!
   Then again why should we go starry eyed and clasp a tin dipper of
birch beer to our bosom in preference to a blend of Holland gin and
fresh lime juice and fine ice and Angostura that we christened Death
in the Gulf Stream when Carlos the Cubano head gaffer freshened
them for us while fishing giant tuna off Cat Cay with Ernest Heming-
way on PILAR?
   We also doubt what intercourse with strawberry sodas could hope
to match another dawn in China, before undeclared wars were stylish
and the White Russian princesses were still young in Shanghai; a
dawn when we stood with a China-born American comrade on the
bridge over the Whangpoo by the Bolsheviki Legation, both of us
mellow as casks on Cossack Punches, and through his knowledge of
dialect we carried on a flowery and mutually instructive conversation
with some Son of Heaven who has just risen from the matting shelter

                                • xvi.
               THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

of his sampan between a deckload of filled coffins to perform the dual
pleasures of morning cigarette and a prosperous call of nature-a
mutually serious and respectful conversation on the sorry condition
of mankind generally and his own alimentaries in particular; on the
cholera epidemic upriver, the high cost of living; a sure feng-shui-
or good luck charm-against certain diseases, the proper routine for
begetting male children and a proven simple calculated to thaw the
most arctic woman's heart.
   Why on earth should we seek solace in a bankruptcy of sarsaparilla
in preference to an evening last month with the Mint Julep goblets
frosted about mentionable rye-imagine an Eastern Slio' Marylander
using bourbonl-sitting by Hervey Allen's fireplace with more ice
and sugar and mint and sweet spring water and the decanter handy,
talking half the night about books and men ·and wom~n and
manners?
   How in heaven's name could any known liter of ice water since
Ponce de Leon produce such memories as that January twilight up at
Juhu Beach, which is out of Bombay on the Arabian Sea and twice as
broad as Ormond and four times Waikiki, on the bungalow verandah
of two friends in General Motors Export and the American Com-
mercial Attache? There we lay in rattan chairs, the kind with those
swivel arms for ankles to drape over in the breeze, while the three cat-
footed Mohammedan bearers refilled our Gimlets, reading the month
old New Yorker and Time and talking over our three day beater hunt
just finished a hundred miles or so back in the wild Mahratti country.
Then the smell of the roasting saddle of cheetal venison, the dozen
grilling sand-grouse, teasing out from the separate cook house, while
a blood red sun the size of a gun turret set between the hundred-foot-
high cocopalms and the lateen sails of the homing fisher dhows were
a strand of flamingo plumes on the horizon. And after dinner sweet
Arabian coffee and the tray of liqueurs; Drambuie-our favourite of
all-Chartreuse, green and yellow; Cordial Medoc, which is made
from peach pits; brandy fine, Benedictine, Cura~ao, Kirschwasser and
Cointreau; and kiimmel in a bottle like a bear.

                                • XVll •




                                                            •
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

   No, here was something precious and fine and very good. Some-
 thing which began between four men who, until the evening came
 and the shadows lengthened, had taken no thought of spirits, but
 which there on that verandah found complement and gracious ease
in the whole fragrant array of flasks and queer shaped bottles and
pungent savours.
   So here between these covers is firstfruit of twenty-one years of in-
ternational field work in club, hotel and private society around much
of the known world. You will find them all here, all the famous ones,
and more besides that are now accepted and granted brief through
long local usage and tradition. Here are the Raffles Gin Sling from far
off Singapore, Seaholm and Gerber's Tiger's Milk from the historic
Wagons-Lits in the Peking Legation Quarter. The proven Gimlet of
India and South China, the unpredictable Balloon Cocktail from Cal-
cutta's smartest restaurant named Firpo's; the truly magnificent Mil-
lion Dollar as mixed by the genius Saito at the Imperial in Tokyo;
the impeccable Gin Fizz Special of Aziz Effendi, monitor of .the one
and only Winter Palace at Loucqsor, in Egypt-yes, all these are here.
And we haven't forgotten Jerusalem's Between the Sheets as per-
fected by our philosophical friend Weber at the Arabian Nights King
David Hotel; nor the for-the-ladies Hotel de la Silva Casino Special,
with the blush of a maid at her first whispered proposal, and having
domicile in smart Cuernavaca, where Mexico's Four Hundred spend
summer.
   The Colombo Flying Fish, from Ceylon; Monk Antrim's Quaran-
tine-Manila's perennial favourite; and his Lintik-Tagalog vernacu-
lar for "Lightning"-are not missing. There is the Grande Bretagne
No. I-which we consider one of the four finest in the entire world-
from Athens, Greece; Bilgray's Hallelujah from Colon, Panama. There
are rum swizzles and punches and crustas that for generations have
cooled the parched palates of planters and merchants and dilettantes
in Jamaica, Martinique and other hot country islands of the romantic
Caribbean.
   Readers will find the Rangoon Star Ruby, from exotic Burmah; the
                               . xviii .
               THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

Mood In digo from Gould's fantastic Casino Palais de la Mediter-
ranee, whose purpose is not necessary to mention; and Lord Ruthven's
Tewahdiddle, or Gossip's Cup, which ... "exceeds by far all the ale
that ever Mother Bunch made in her lifetime," according to His Lord-
ship's Experiments in Cookereye &c, London 1654.
  All of these are here, and many many more of varying size and
type together with authentic ways of manufacturing bitters, syrups,
stone bottle ginger beers, which have been well proven by tests of
time and peoples. So once again, as in The Exotic Cookery Book, we
have offered our personal alimentaries to the pleasant and educational
task as a sort of liquid proving ground for endless alcoholic formulae
before offering this hand-picked collection of li_vely masterpieces from
the Greater and Lesser Ports of Orient & Occident, & the South Seas.
  And so, before the turned page, we say: Salud y pesetas, skol, sante,
salute, and here's mud in your eye!

Java Head,
Coconut Grnve, Florida,
1st /ul;1, Nineteen Hundred Thirty-Nine




                                • XlX •
The Gentleman's Companion
 AN EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK
                           CHAPTER I

           A DESIGN FOR DRINKING
     Being a Brief Dissertation on Th is Pleasan·t Subject in General;
  why Too Many Cocktails Fail through Over-Sweetness & Plurality of
  Ingredient; why Hot Drinks must be Hot, & Cold Drinks Cold; an
  Ardent Plea for Accurate Calibration; & finally a Second Invitation
  to The Mixer.


 As IN the creation of THE EXOTIC COOKERY BOOK, this
setting down in print of the first-fruits of fourteen years' liquid field
work naturally credits all readers with fair fundamental knowledge
on the subject of mixed potables. In any congregation of exotica there
can hardly be room for formulae on such elementary subjects as the
ever-present Dry Martini, the Manhattan or the Old Fashioned Cock-
tail. Our own native Mint Julep was included because it can, and does,
stand proudly beside the world's best concoctions; a masterpiece in its
own. right, a true exotic of the Deep South which has been taken up
and deliciously modified in other interesting places as far off as the
Philippines.
   It is also a physical impossibility to pretend that this volume is a
complete treatise on beverages. There are some ninety-seven visible
volumes on our own shelves dealing with wines, blended drinks, and
tradition obtaining to this gentle art of imbibition-which is our
coined word for the sport-and heaven alone knows how many more
there must be in print that we'~e never heard of! Experts have spent
whole lives covering one phase or type of wine-of which there are
around sixteen hundred listed. We, therefore, will briefly mention
which to chill; which not to chill; which types march best with cer-
tain foods and courses.
  On the truly American matter of mixed drinks we feel we can speak
from some slight experience, and with fair authority. Instead of list-
ing a maze of receipts already listed in, and plagiarized from, profes-

                                  ' I   •
             THE GENTLEM A N'S COMPANION

 sional bar lists and previous cocktail books, we will bring you fam ous
 liquid classics from odd spots of the world-classics which, through
the test of time and social usage, have become institutions in the place
 of their birth. One volume in our possession naively lists seventeen
hundred allegedly authentic cocktails, whereas there cannot possibly
be that many good cocktails on earth-or a hundred and seventy, for
that matter.
   All those we list cannot please every reader, naturally. Certain nor-
mal friends of ours dislike Holland gin with a passion little short of
fanatical. We've yet t9 meet the female who really likes Jam aica rum
unmixed with lighter rums to modify the heavy molasses taste. Ab-
sinthe, for instance, can conquer the most desiccated puritan on occa-
sion, but makes the heart of many agreeable folk shudder at the
taste. Anisette, kiimmel, tequila, Hawaiian okolehao-all have their
enemies and champions. No, the best we can hope to do is thumb over
our battered field book, our odd scrawled-upon bar chits, menus and
scraps of notes from bygone days, and construct therefrom a sequence
of drinks which for this reason or that, stand out in m emory beyond
their fellows.
   The issue we take with current cocktail books is no reflection on
their authors, but on their subject matter. It dates back to the year 1931
when we were headed around the world, and found ourself in the
Free Port of Gibraltar. Well, the British pound sterling was down to
$3·30 American-then-gold. Being a duty-free port American ciga-
rettes were ninety cents the carton, Johnny Walker Black Label, eight-
een the case. London Gordon around three dollars, eighty the case.
With these few basic figures it proves the possible scope of our labora-
tory work.
   We got back in the last tender out of "Gib," and if she wasn't down
to her Plimsoll marks it wasn't through lack of brown paper covered
packages destined for the vacant cabin on B Deck next to ours! That
night we stowed our pelf-bottle on bottle of it. There was everything
 the wildest madcap mixer could demand for any known blended
potation, fizzes, daisys, rickeys, cocktails, punches, and pick-me-ups .

                                  • 2.
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

 We had bought the biggest cocktail book in print, and every evening
 thereafter we went to work. It was one of those thick volumes which
 sprouted on the damp soil of prohibition like wan, mad mushrooms.
 Along with two other stout hearts and chrome vanadium stomachs
 we attacked that plump book every evening for five solid months! We
 cut no corners; we didn't cheat. We measured accurately, chilled
 properly. We tasted and drank or promptly Hung the abortive fluid
 out the nearest port hole.
    To our naive mind, assuming that all drink receipts in print must
have been put there through some sort of tested merit, the disillusion-
ment was immediate and illuminating. By Suez we were groggy; we
spent two days in Newara Eyliya, hill station back .of Colombo, Cey-
lon, to get our breath. By Singapore we were cellars-dry, and bought
again. We literally drank our way across Siam and Cambodia. We,
along with our other fellow-scientists, popped c.orks and gulped our
triple-threat through the Dutch East Indies, Java, Bali, Borneo, and
Makassar to Zamboanga, to Manila, then to Hongkong in South
China. On the Bund in Shanghai our heads were groggy but un-
bowed, and we bought again. By the time we quit Honolulu the bald-
faced conclusions were plain as the nose on our face-much of that
welter of mixed things with fancy names were the egotistically-titled,
ill-advised conceptions of low-browed mixers who either had no access
to sound spirits, or if they did have, had so annealed their taste buds
with past noxious cups that they were forevermore incapable of judi-
cious authority. It was no wonder that, like the originators of the
latest parlour story, their originators would invariably hide incognito.
We measured with laboratory accuracy, obeyed every law. Here's the
verdict.

1. Out of all the thousands of cocktails listed in all books there are too
   many drinks calling for gin and vermouth. We admire vermouth in its
   place, but that simply isn't in 60% of our cocktails.
2. Entirely too many cocktails specified too much Italian vermouth and
   French vermouth with fruit juices. It is an evil combination, productive
   of evil enzymes and tastes.
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

3. Too many cocktails of delicate base specified too much of Italian ver-
    mouth, with result that the latter drowned out the basic and better
    flavour. Like absinthe, Italian vermouth is a dominant taste; and we
    must watch it.
4. Many cocktails seem to get into books more because of a trick or "cute"
    name-heaven only knows why!-than for the chemical soundness of
    its raison d'etre. Calling a drink a Widow's Kiss, or a Horned Toad,
     really isn't any ticket to liquid immortality; for no inferior blend ever
     lasts out the night of its evil concoction.
 5. Except for flavouring cocktails, and one or two rare Exotics like the
     Hongkong Rosy Dawn, immortal to our memory, no mixed drink
     having more than 3 main alcoholic ingredients but which becomes hoist
     on the petard of its own casual plurality. . . . In other words, barring
      Pousse Cafes and other feminine threats, no drink calling for r part gin,
      Yz of cherry brandy, Yz Cura~ao, Yz apricot brandy, and Yi rye whisky,
      can ever prove out into anything but the taste melee it is. However it is
      possible to point up a drink with a dash of this and that upon a basically
      sound foundation.
  6. Watch using liqueurs or cordials in cocktails. Most of these are very
      sweet and not only can make an otherwise good mix too sweet, but lose
      their own character through dilution.

 HAVING come through this test by liquid, still sound in wind and limb,
 or as Fritz (Alone in the Caribbean) Fenger would say "unfrayed at
 either end," we are still heartily of the opinion that decent libation
 supports as many million souls as it threatens; donates pleasure and
 sparkle to more lives than it shadows; inspires more brilliance in the
 world of art, music, letters and common ordinary intelligent conversa-
  tion, than it dims-as even a brief glance into the history of our finest
  lyric poets, musicians, artists, authors, and statesmen, will attest-
  right from the day of Wull Shaksper to our own generation.
      We view the subject with clinical interest, continued joy and ex-
   treme toleration. We feel that so long as it is an existing part of hu-
   man life, too strong and too important for prohibition, we should
   make the enjoyments as apparent and as controlled as possible; the
   tastes crisp, the compounding as intriguing as far ports of the world
    cap afford.
                  THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

  In the collection of this volume's data we gradually came to realize
that the great drinks around the world, like the ethics of draw poker,
the length of ladies' skirts and width of men's pantaloons-the ac-
cepted, the proven, thing is the right thing; the best thing, and all of
these proven experiences march here.
  Each one of them fetches joyous memory of some friend, place, or
adventure; is flanked with happy memory of a frosted glass, a smile,
the sip of something which is perfect. No, nothing shall ever pirate
away those memories, or the recorded history of these two hundred
and more drinks. We are faithful to them, Cynara, after our fashion!

AN EARNEST PLEA for THREE MEncULous OBSERVANCES in the
CoNsTRUCTION of any MIXED DRINK-and EsPECIAI,LY that of the
COCKTAIL
1. Measure accurately, and don't be betrayed by that insidious temptation
   to pour with a "heavy jigger." It is undeniable hospitality to wish guests
   to get their ample share of spirits, but don't force the amount. More
   drinks are spoiled through being too strong than being too weak.
2. Serve cold drinks arctic cold. Chill bottles and glasses, to speed up the
   process .... Serve hot drinks steaming hot . ... Compromise in either
   of these events is merely bargaining with fault and disaster.
3. If there are guests present who appreciate decent cocktails, let's do the
   mixing ourself. The amateur will always take infinitely more pains than
   any houseboy or butler. Trust him for such usual fare as whisky-and-
   soda, the Tom Collins, and so on. They are easy. But the crisp pungency
   of a proven cocktail demands infinite care in observance of the simple
   mixing requirements. It is such a brief step from excellence to me-
   diocrity.
4. Don't try and make decent cocktails out of cheap, briefly aged liquors.
   Stick to highballs, or else do the job up right. We can no more build a
   fine cocktail on dollar gin than Whistler could paint his mother's por-
   trait with barn paint.

     WORDS to the LIQUID WISE No. I, URGING all GOOD
     AMERICANS to LIFT a PROUD HEAD & MEET the WORLD
     EYE to EYE, when IT COMES to MAKING MIXED DRINKS
       Your Britisher may scorn ice in his whisky-sodas, your Indian Colo-
     nial may insist on cellar-warm ale, your Frenchman may know all his

                                     . 5.
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

  wines by their maiden names-but remember that the American has
  invented, and always will invent, more of the world's good mixed
  drinks than all the rest of humanity lumped together. . . . Just read
  the pages of history. There they are: juleps, cocktails, cobblers, fizzes,
  daisys, sours, rickeys, coolers-these and more all originated in Amer-
  ica, reached their highest technique here in America. . . . Whether
  the rest of the world cares to admit it or not, we started these drinks in
  circulation, just as we started the telephone, submarine, phonograph,
  incandescent light, electric refrigerator, and decent bath tubs. Oddly
  enough, outside the continental boundaries of the States the best drink
  mixers are American-trained Chinos, Cubans, Filipinos, Japanese,
  Swiss, and officers in His Britannic Majesty's army and navy!-not
  native English, French, or Italian citizens on their own soil.

A SECOND INVITATION to THE MIXER
  Just as in the volume on cookery, we again remind our readers that
a decent electric mixer is just as necessary on any well-equipped bar
these days as a horse in a stable. Of course most cold drinks may be
mixed, or shaken, by hand. Of course underground tunnels may be
dug by hand, but modern machinery saves hours of wasted time and
effort. There are also several so-called Tropical drinks, notably the
new style Daiquiri, which simply cannot be shaped up by hand at all.
                                             0




There is no wrist strong or deft enough to make any mix of liquid and
cracked ice turned into frosted sherbet-like consistency so essential to
these examples.
   The Ramos Brothers used to have a battery of eight ebony black
bartenders to shake their famous fizzes to perfection-each one work-
ing fiercely and passing the shaker to the next, when weary. The War-
ing Mixer is not being revived again here in this drinking volume in
any spirit of commercialism. As explained before, we do not even
know Mr. Waring, but we like his music a'nd his Mixer. It is fairly
expensive, but is assembled of as fine materials as man can make-to
give hard professional service; to last. There will probably be imita-
tive, cheaper electric mixers. There will also be violinists who imitate
Messrs. Heifetz and Kreisler. For co?ling Daiquiris, gin fizzes, mak-
ing grenadine juice from pomegranates, for a dozen and one unex-

                                   . 6.
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

pected uses, we find this deft g adget indispensable. If this slight paean
of appreciation and gratitude to Mr. Waring for his aid to the mixing
profession should make even one person beat a trail toward him seek-
ing his mousetrap, that result is amply deserved-just as correctly as
the Frenchman who thought up the drip coffee biggin, the chap who
fabricated tl1e first double boiler, the first deep fat kettle for the prepa-
ration of food.
  Future reference to this mechanical unit will refer to it plainly as
The Mixer.

AND NOW a COMP ANY of 200 & 67 AssoRTED PoTATIONs from
AMATEUR & PROFESSIONAL HosTs about the WoRLD

AN ABSINTHE COCKTAIL, as MIXED for Us by an ITINERANT
Russ1AN PRINCE on the OccASION of OUR UsuAL MoRNING PILGRIMAGE
to HARR Y's AMERICAN BAR, which Is in P A.RIS
  During several weeks domicile in Hotel Daunou over Ciro's across
the Rue Daunou, we often groped to Harry when visibly withering
on the vine-seeking aid and comfort. On this especial occasion a Rus-
sian gentleman spied our ambulant corpse, took pity, bowed Harry
aside in his spotless white coat, and in a small frappe shaker com-
pounded the following life saver. We advocate putting it in The Mixer
for a jiffy with finely cracked ice.

Absinthe, 1 Yz jiggers                 Orange & Angostura bitters, dash
Anis or anisette, dash                    each
Water, Yz jigger                       White of egg, 1 tsp
Sugar or gomme syrup, Yz tsp or        Twist of lime or lemon peel
    less

  This is an excellent appetizer and tonic. Twist bit of peel to insure
getting oil on surface of the drink. Must be very cold.

JUST a WORD on the LARGELY M1suNDERSToon SUBJECT of ABSINTHE
in GENERAL; & CoNcERNING an ABSINTHE DRIP from LE PERROQUET,
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

 in SAIGON, FRENCH INDO CHINA, & an ABSINTHE FRAPPE from the
 HELIOPOLIS PALACE, in CAIRO
    Technically absinthe is a highly toxic liqueur running between 70%
 and 80% alcohol, with an aromatic characteristic flavour of a kind of
 wormwood known as Artemisia absinthium, blended with little items
 like angelica root, sweet Bag, dittany leaves, star anise fruits, hyssop
 and fennel. In other words it is a strange herb-alcohol brew acting
 potently on the nervous ganglia. Too much can cause hallucinations,-
 what we have lightly come to call D. T's. And other things not judi-
 cious to mention.
    In mixed drinks absinthe has a flavouring value all its own. Usually
 a very small quantity should be used, as the taste is potent and will
 dull many other more delicate flavours.
    Due to French mishandling of the liquor, and the sorry plight of
 her addicts, its manufacture was banned in the republic. For years the
 old French Quarter in New Orleans turned out a good type, and now
 the Swiss seem to have an inside corner on the market. Pernod is the
 capon near-absinthe made in France now, with much of the taste but
 little of the lift-due to many simples being ruled out of the formula.

  THE ABSINTHE DRIP as PROPERLY FABRICATED in SAIGON, or any-
  where ELsE, for that MATTER
    One of the charms of so many far eastern colonies is that many of
  the old world laws, tabus, taxes and other civilized nuisances are
  tossed overboard at Suez. If there is any prohibition of absinthe in
  lndo-Chine we failed to see it, ever, and, barring corruption of natives
  and conspiring against France, there is little prohibition of any kind.
  In Saigon we found a diverse and international parade of people, none
  of whom apparently had anything urgent or i~mediate to do, except
  the coolies tugging their burdens. A Siamese aristocrat strolled by our
  lower window in the shade of a parasol held by a servant. He was
   wrapped in a smart white silk coat, pipe-clayed sun topee and a purple
  silk diaper twined between his sturdy brown thighs. A merchant from
1 Rangoon in a blue and crimson skirt. Chic flexible Chinese girls with


                                  . 8.
                THE EXOTIC DRINKI N G BOOK

their trim, exquisite figures poured into the scabbard-like split dresses
of pastel silk that so elegantly suit their type. A brace of snipe-legged
little Japanese men with f. 2 L eicas swinging around their necks, half-
inch thick eyeglasses, Bat straw hats, muttering urgently at each other
without the slightest trace of faci al expression. A Javanese girl-mother
with her naked brown babe swi nging in a butterfly tinted sarong tied
above her hips an d tucked in with a cunning woman's twist. A Bud-
dhist priest from far back in the wild hill country back of beyond, in his
funny hat and worn robe dyed three centuries ago in a yellow hue
which would be mellow and fair a century after its present owner was
dust. T wo short, plump, short-skirted French girls giggling, looking
us squarely in the eye before continuing other inspection-totally
without self-consciousness or inhibition as they audibly speculated on
our origin, age, marital state and capitalistic solvency in a machine gun
undertone of rapid French. This is just the briefest vignette of Saigon.
   Before quitting this subject of absinthe perhaps we had better ex-
plain that taken in steady doses over a considerable period of time, it
does nibble the keen edge off the brain until a man becomes a sorry
sort of thing; aimless, listless, and generally-shockingly-lacking.
This, and the habit it forms under constant usage, of course accounts
for its ban in France. Actually, too, it happens to be one of the few
liqueurs which more or less definitely stimulates the cavaliers riding
herd about the altar of Aphrodite.
   An Absinthe Drip isn't one of the black arts at all; nor something
confined to Maupassant, and mystery, and low and devious dives all
coagulated with apaches, and their grisettes, and sitting around all
hours of the night with drooping cigarettes in the corners of their
mouths, and long hair drooping in the~r eyes, and long knives up
their sleeves .... The cute, almost doll-like Annarnese bar-man took
a small thin tumbler, nearly the size and shape of our Old Fashioned
Cocktail glass. This he centered up with 2 cubes of sterilized ice, a
lump of loaf sugar. Onto this he turned a jigger of absinthe. A tiny
pitcher of cold water was supplied, this to be poured in 1 drop at a
time, or at guest option, ladled in with a small teaspoon. . . . Under
                                  . 9.
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

this routine the pearly, almost opalescent, sheen of the absinthe is even
more apparent than in the Frappe; also its potency.

AN ABSINTHE FRAPPE from HELIOPOLIS PALACE, CAIRO, in 1931
   Here is one of the most bizarre and startling hotels in all the world.
 We found it, and not doing so well, back in 1926; but later on, in
funds, it drew the fashionable crowd out near the race track. . . .
This drink was mixed in small silver cocktail shakers holding enough
for 2 guests; fetched to table with chilled glasses of champagne saucer
type... . Merely turn 2 glasses of finely cracked ice into a chilled
small shaker, add two 2-oz jiggers of absinthe and r tsp anis del mono,
or French anisette. Shake quickly and hard. Pour out, ice and all; and
a short straw, bright green in hue, is the final touch. This again pro-
duces a pearly white fluid at odds with the greenish liquid in bottle.
  Please don't ignore this small shaker, iced shaker, iced glasses busi-
ness. When making drinks especially in small amount this is essential
to chill cold enough-but mainly to prevent much ice melting to dilute
and injure the tone of the fipished drink.

  WORDS to the LIQUID WISE No. II, STILL further INSISTING
  that SHAKER & GLASSES ALWAYS BE CHILLED-ESPE-
  CIALLY when MAKING COCKTAILS for a VERY FEW
  GUESTS
     Mixing 2 cocktails in:,. huge, room-temperature shaker, and pour-
  ing them into room-temperature glasses, is careless business. The ice
  ~elts rapidly, dilutes the drink, and the whole mix warms so fast that
  mstead of being really chilled the final outcome is also not far from
  room temperature. . . . A warm cocktail is like half-way objects in
  l~e-n~ither this nor that, and often a reflection op. the judgment and
   d1scret1on of those present.

ADIOS AMIGOS, ONE from the ARMY-NAVY CLUB in MANILA, &
ONE to be WATCHED SENORS!
Bacardi, 2 ponies                    Cognac, 1 pony
French Vermouth, r pony              Lemon, juice, Yz; or lime, juice, r
                           Dry gin, 1 pony

                                 • IO •
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

  Shake well with lots of cracked ice, pour into a large flat cham-
pagne glass, and send for the Marines!

J. PIERPONT MORGAN'S ALAMAGOOZLUM, the PERSONAL
Mix CREDITED to that FINANCIER, PHILANTHROPIST, & BANKER of a BY-
GONE ERA
   This ·might conceivably be a punch, if handled like a Planter's
Punch; just as it could be stirred in a pitcher. To tell the truth this is
no exotic from a far land, but is such a tasteful and sound cock-
tail that we append it here, standing on its own legs and its own
merit. To serve about 5 cocktails: take I jigger each of Jamaica rum,
gomme syrup, and yellow or green Chartreuse; ~dd Yz pony yellow
Cura~ao and Yz pony of Angostura bitters. Add 2 scant ponies of
Holland gin, the same of water; donate Yz the white of an egg and
shake hard with lots of cracked ice. Serve in ~ Manhattan glass.

THE AMER PICON "POUFFLE" FIZZ, from the BAR-LoG of an
EDITOR FRIEND DoMICILED for a SuMMER & WINTER on the FRENCH
RIVIERA, at ST. JACQUES CAP FERRAT, & in a VILLA & THINGS
    This is a very odd and fascinating affair, we can assure everyone.
Simply turn a jigger of Amer Picon into a shaker with plenty of
cracked ice, donate the white of I recent egg, and a scant pony of
grenadine. Shake well, put into a goblet containing a lump of ice and
fill to taste with best club soda available. Add ~ tsp Angostura; stir.

THE ANTRIM COCKTAIL, ONE WE FoUND in the QuAINT
LiTfLE OVERSEAS CLUB in ZAMBOANGA, on the IsLAND of MINDANAO in
the YEAR of GRACE I93I
   This classic, being invented by "Monk" Antrim in Manila 5 or 6
years before, had found its way down into Moro country, many hun-
dreds of miles to the south. We will bring more news of "Monk"
later, meanwhile this is his own special origination, later blended for
us by his own Chino barmeister in Manila.
   Use I pony each of good French cognac and port wine; toss in Yz

                                • II •
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

tsp of sugar; shake with lots of cracked ice and serve in a Manhattan
glass. This is a slow creeper-upper, so prend garde!

THE ASTOR HOTEL SPECIAL, from SHANGHAI, during a TRJP
around the WoRLD in the YEAR 1926, & on the OccAsION of OUR BE-
COMING MAROONED in that CITY, with OuR OWN SHIP & PERSONAL BE-
LONGINGS GoNE on to HoNGKONG, & with a DELIGHTFUL Y ouNG
MAIDEN by WHOM WE WERE LATER REJECTED in MARRIAGE, & WHO
LATER DISTINGUISHED HERSELF by EsPousING a VERY N1cE GENTLEMAN
WHOSE MAIN CLAIM to FAME Is that HE WAs once KrnNAPED by
KARP1s prior to the LA TTER's ENTERrNG His SUITE in A.LcA TRAZ
  That whole trip around the world was the fault of GRS stock be-
cause it went up over 200 points before we sold; and our epidemic of
missing steamboats began in Shanghai and was the fault of this very
blend-sitting in the charming old Astor, with fog setting in, and a
big party given out at the Majestic if we'd stay. The formula is noted
directly from the Astor's Number I Chino mixer.
Cognac, 1 jigger                         Absinthe, Yz jigger
Maraschino, 1 tsp                        Lemon juice, strained, Yz tsp
Egg white, 2 tsp                         Club soda
  Shake well with cracked ice, strain into a tall wine goblet, then top
off with just a little chilled soda.

THREE VERSIONS of ATHOL BROSE, an Onn Scorr1sH INSTI-
TUTION which, LIKE MANY THINGS Scorr1sH, Is FouNDED on MIGHTY
Goon REASON, & Is GUARANTEED to PROFIT !Ts UsER

ATHOL BROSE No. I
   This potation, like our favourite cordial, Drambuie, was coined far
up in the misty Rieland country where two-fisted Scottish swords-
men swung two-handed claymores for Bonnie Prince Charlie, Mary
q' Scotland, or their own feudal Laird. It is the traditional drink with
that weird meat lusty, the Scotch Haggis. We personally prefer Athol
Brose served hot on wintry nights, although this is not following

                                . 12 .
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

custom. Please don't attempt to use any young Scotch whisky-use
the best the shelf affords.
Really old Liqueur Scotch whisky,           Clear strained honey, r part
    I part                                  Cream, I part
  Mix well, warm slightly to make smooth. Then cool and sample,
or heat and sample while still hot, to insure a mix to taste. Drink cold.
Never boil cream or milk in a Brose. "Milk boiled is milk spoiled,"
runs the Scottish proverb.

ATHOL BROSE No. II
  Put a heaping tsp or so of strained honey into 4 jiggers of liqueur
Scotch whisky, turning this into a tumbler. Fill tumbler with milk,
heated beforehand. Cool before drinking.

ATHOL BROSE No. III
  This is still another ancient blend: Use r part liqueur Scotch whisky,
Yz part strained honey, r part thick cream. Heat carefully, as before.
Serve cold.

  WORDS to the WISE No. III, BEING an EARNEST PLEA NOT
  to SERVE an OVER SUPPLY of RICH CREAMY COCKTAILS
  before any DECENT MEAL
    Being more or less of a meal in itself, this sort of rich creamy drink
  cannot whet or build appetite. For this reason it really should be served
  on other occasions than immediately preceding a notable dinner. This
  applies to Pink Ladies, Alexanders, and all their nourishing kin.

THE AUNT EMILY, a CREATION of SLOPPY JoE's, in HAVANA, YEARS
before His SPOT GoT to BE a SoRT of HALF WAY HousE for EVERY
ITINERANT AMERICAN on the IsLAND
   Try and use good aged Calvados-fine French apple brandy-for
best results in this creation,-not the usual, fairly new applejack. We
have found under these improved conditions that it is a memorable
cocktail well worthy of notation. . . . Mix Yz jigger each apple
brandy, dry gin, dry apricot brandy, and orange juice. Add r dash

                                   . 13 .
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

grenadine for colour. Shake hard and serve in a tall cocktail glass with
stem.

THE BAGUIO SKIN, being a VERY SIMPLE yet VERY UNUSUAL
Exonc from OUR BEAUTIFUL HILL STATION away up in the fooRoTE
COUNTRY among the HIGH MouNTAINS of LuzoN
   Baguio happens to be the world's first and only planned hill station,
beautifully laid out by Cameron Forbes. Beside it the Topsy-like Brit-
ish India hill stations at Mussoorie, Gulmarg, and Simla-that "jest
growed"-are straggling, casual affairs with no organization or scenic
plan other than that endowed by an ever-generous Almighty. Baguio
is the summer, rainy season retreat of civil and military Manila. We
found this drink there, 7000 feet up, sitting before an open fire at the
Country Club, looking out through the windows while the cloud
slowly came down and tucked the 18th fairway under its wing.
   In a tall-stemmed wineglass put 1 tsp of sugar dissolved in a trifle
of water; then I dash or so of orange bitters. On top of this place 2
thin slices of green lime-or lemon-3 ice cubes, and then add 2 ponies
of Carta de Oro Bacardi. Stir briskly with a bar spoon and serve as-is,
with a final dusting of grated nutmeg on top. We consider this one of
the finest possible, and find that 1 pair of orange or jasmine blossoms
starred in each glass lends the true tropical, the fragrant, touch that
guests like.

BALAKLAVA SPECIAL No. I, as BREWED for Us by ONE CAPTAIN
FERGUSON, SHIPMATE of OURS around the WoRLD in 1926, & LATE of
Hrs MAJEsTY's BENGAL LANCERS ONE-TIME STATIONED in the PUNJAB,
NORTHERN INDIA
                                 '                     .
   This very unusual cocktail is dedicated to the spot made fam.ous by
the charge of the Light Brigade which was a spectacular, tragic, a:1d
rather unnecessary military gesture. . . . Fill a small-stemmed wrne
gobl9t ,b rimming full with shaved ic~r very .finely cracked ice. Into
this pour I jigger each kiirnmel and cognac. A dash of any red syrup
like grenadine is optional and pretty.

                                . 14 .




                                                                           _j
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

BALAK.LAVA SPECIAL No. II, when LADIES ARE PRESENT
  Just why handsome women prefer sweet and creamy cocktails has
always troubled us, but they do; and anyway a lot of things about
handsome ladies have troubled us, so why get tweaky about the busi-
ness at this late date? . . . Put r jigger of ki.immel, Yz jigger each of
absinthe, cognac and kirschwasser, into a shaker. Add Yz tsp orgeat
syrup and r to rYz tsp of thick cream. Shake briskly and serve in a tall-
stemmed cocktail glass. And for heaven's sweet sake don't think this
snake-in-the-grass drink is a harmless and gentle lady's affair just be-
cause it has cream in it!
FIRPO'S BALLOON COCKTAIL, the CALCUTTA CLASSIC
   Our college mate C. Byron Spofford, at the time American Commer-
cial Attache in Calcutta for all of India, Burma and Ceylon, once
gave a dinner celebrating the farewell of a very o£Hnionated.pair of men
wished on him from Russian Famine Relief Headquarters by Her-
bert Hoover. We seem to recall their names as being Sabine and Ren-
shaw, but that doesn't matter-it didn't then, and it certainly doesn't
now. The thing that does matter is that Firpo mixed us a special round
of Balloons-named because the 5th one consumed is guaranteed to
set us bobbing about up under the ceiling. Firpo's is Calcutta's one
smart night spot. It was all very gay in spite of the Hoover sycophants .
. . . To r jigger of really good rye whisky add the same of Italian
vermouth and absinthe-substituting Pernod Veritas lacking the true
wormwood spirit. Now donate 2 dashes of orange bitters, or Angos-
tura if preferred, and r Yz to 2 tsp of egg white. Shake well. Serve in a
big saucer type champagne glass. This is another one to watch cannily
lest our pedal extremities fold up at some totally inappropriate
moment.
THE BARRY COCKTAIL, from MANILA, and MET FIRST in 1926,
then again LATER. As MIXED at the ARMY & NAVY CLUB
  This is included through clinical mixing interest. It is exactly the
same as a Martini, but using Italian vermouth instead of the dry
French type; adding Angostura bitters rather than orange, and

                                 . 15 .
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

trimmed with Yz tsp creme de menthe, floated on at the last. Twist a
curl of lemon peel for its oil. It is stirred in a bar glass and must be
cold indeed.

 BERTITA'S SPECIAL COCKTAIL, con HABANERO, BEING
 an ExoTIC WE HAVE PERSONALLY FETCHED BACK from TAxco, which
is BACK in the HrGH HILLS of MEx1co, where ARTISTS from AMERICA
 CONGREGATE for VARYING REASONS, & with VARYING SuccESs
   Bertita, diagonally across the southwest corner of the public square
                                                    r
from de la Borda's matchless cathedral is a dingy but mildly cele-
brated place, noted twice in this volume. This is a potent drink poured
with a heavy hand, as we found during a stay in Taxco in February
1937.... Habafiero incidentally, means any of the light Cuban rums
properly distilled from sugar cane by-product, and aged in the wood.
Properly they should be called rum brandies, we imagine. Bacardi is
the best known, but down there in Mexico the citizens blot up an
amazing count of Cubaiio rums we never even heard of, like El Caney
in its slim Rhine wine style bottle. . . . To 4 jiggers of light Cuban
rutn add the strained juice of 2 limes, the strained juice of I Yz average
sized oranges, 2 tsp of grenadine, or sugar or gomme syrup. Shake
vigorously with lots of ice, serve in big champagne glasses-for 2
people. As we recall it Bertita served it with cracked ice still in the
drink. It would pan out well iµ The Mixer, incidentally. Personally
we float on I tsp Jamaica, atop the finished drink.

  WORDS to the WISE No. IV, on the WISDOM of ADDING a
  VERY LITTLE JAMAICA RUM to ALL COCKTAILS REQUIR-
  ING FRUIT JUICES of any KIND                            ,           .
    This .is our invariable rule now, as 1 tsp of Jamaica adds a defimte
  someth~g to all fruit juice drinks; and especially to those .bas:d on
  Bacardi or ~ther light rums, which are so delicate that their virtues
  are cloaked 10 the more usual fruit juices themselves.

JERUSALEM'S BETWEEN the SHEETS, from the BAR BooK of
WEBER at the KING DAVID
  Like the American Side Car, ~nd other truly worthwhile cocktails

                                 • 16 .
               THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

this invention is totally sound, and is already quite famous throughout
the Near East. We ran into it one dank day of sleet and rain in early
January, just after the first Arab-Jewish riots which started with a
murder of a poor old man stoned to death in a Haifa melon patch,
between halves of a soccer match! and had just reached a climax be-
side the Dome of the Rock mosque-which has religious significance
to both Arab and Jew, and unfortunately overhangs the famous Jew-
ish Wailing Wall. We won't go into the politics of the thing, but it
was a nasty mess, with British Tommies in the streets finally, and
machine guns and barbed wire entanglements-all the modern civi-
lized show. . . . We were disillusioned at all this wholesale murder
in Christianity's own heart city, sad at the sight of a' fifteen year old
Arab girl-the daughter of a fine Arab friend-crushed under a heavy
slab of masonry tossed from a rooftop as she returned from worship
after the end of Ramadan-the Mohammedan Easter-and we were
wearied at the thought of the drawn knives, the murder from ambush
which would follow all this blood debt throughout Palestine. We had
both sinuses pounding, were coming down with definitely something,
as well-when in the weird, almost Egyptian-looking sanctum of the
King David Weber took charge; first with a hot rum toddy, then-
on evidence of renewed life-with the following origination.
   Of cognac, cointreau, dry gin and lemon juice-strained-take
equal parts. Shake briskly with lots of cracked ice and serve in a Man-
hattan glass. Cut down the cointreau to make "dry," to taste.

THE JAMAICAN BLACK STRAP, from the FORMULA of an
AMERICAN FRIEND WHo INHERITED a MouNTAIN PLANTATION on
JAMAICA'S WINDWARD SIDE, not too FAR from PoRT ANTONIO
   This is a strange drink, and will arouse a lot of interest among
strangers, only better be sure they admire Jamaica rum-many ladies
don't, for instance I ... Take 2 jiggers of old Jamaica rum, add 2 tbsp
ice water, 2 tsp blackstrap molasses, and I dash Angostura, or 2 dashes
of orange bitters. Shake with lots of cracked ice, and garnish with a
thin stick of fresh pineapple.

                                 . 17 .
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

THE JAMAICAN BLACK STRIPE, another lliARTENER from that
TROPICAL PARADISE, that MAY BE SERVED either HoT or CoLD
   If served cold: work 2 tsp strained honey into 1 tbsp boiling water
until well dissolved. Add I jigger Jamaica rum, shake with cracked
ice, pour into stemmed cocktail glass and dust with nutmeg. Fur-
nished us by Emerson Low, Esq., gentleman, student, Rhodes Scholar,
author and delightful dilettante, who, now that he is married and
possessed of child and responsibility, is not nearly so diverting, it pains
us to say.
THE BAVARIAN "BRIDEGROOM'S CUP," a MEMORY from the
GAY DAYs when THERE WAS TIME in which to LIVE a LIFE-& LAUGH,
& LoVE, & SING, & DANCE, in MmnLE EUROPE
   We have a lovely friend, a girl, who married a Bavarian "von" who
is our idea of what a "van" ought to be; and at their wedding in New
York he introduced us to this delightful drink-which is doubly nice
on a hot summer's day. . . . Take the biggest crystal goblet we can
find, then chill it. Fill it 1/3 full of ice and turn in Yz bottle of good
Rhine wine-well chilled-and 1 jigger of kirsch. Stir for a moment
with a silver spoon, then garnish with a handful of crushed lightly
sugared ripe strawberries-also chilled; only put them in with a spoon
-3 tbsp total. Bedeck with a sprig of green mint, if in the mood.
There we have it.
THE BROKEN SPUR, q. CLASSIC FouND in the PERGOLA of LEON
ELLIS, 2d SECRETARY of the AMERICAN LEGATION in PEKING, in the YEAR
1932, and before a BUFFET DINNER of UTTER CHARM
  Imagine Peking then, just before Japan had screwed up brass
enough to defy Britain, and the rest of Europe's Legations, and ours
too by the wayl-and had quietly occupied most ' of Imperial North
China while everyone sat back like a lot of spineless ostriches with
head in sand, and another lot of spineless men who violated their own
sacred signatures behaved like a lot of schoolboys playing grownup
around the League of Nations table at Geneva throwing dice with an
unfortunate and colorado maduro gentleman named Haile Selassie,

                                 . 18 .
'j
                    THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

      whom no one much had ever heard of before. Imagine getting there
      on our third trip, and knowing people, and with a fiancee who had
     already agreed to the banns, and the plum blossoms frosting the Sum-
     mer Palace gardens where Old Buddha once strolled, before we re-
     entered our motor cars and went to the foot of Western Hills where
     Ellis had sedan chairs and coolies waiting for the madcap, swaying,
     almost perpendicular climb to the very topmost ridge, past the Ameri-
     can Minister's temple, and the other Buddhist temples the Europeans
     rent, through this connivance and that with the willing priests-to
     Ellis' Grotto of the Propitious Pearl. And there in back of ~is living
     quarters was a cave in the hills, where he has to let the pilgrims go
     day or night, and where the mummy of a famous saint sits lifelike,
     covered with some sort of plaster and tinted lik'e real flesh. Imagine
     the view at sunset of the distant Tartar walls of Peking, just barely
     visible through the golden light, with everything powdered with
     Peking dust which is older than time itself: Picture an impossible
     grinning combination of Fu Manchu and Houdini who bowed and
     smiled and produced miraculous things from vast wicker hampers
     which had, through some other Oriental magic, transported them-
     selves before us to this place. There between the 500 year old red
     lacquer columns of that Buddhist pavilion we sat and thought things
     about Jenghiz Khan, and fi.ancees, and sipped big 3 oz Broken Spurs
     served in hand engraved crystal champagne glasses.
        To Yz a jigger of dry gin add the same of Italian vermouth; then
     r jigger of port wine, I tsp anis del mono or anisette, the yolk of 1
     fresh egg. Shake briskly with big lumps of ice and when cold serve
     in a champagne saucer glass, dusting the top with a pinch of pow-
     dered ginger at the last.

     THE BARBADOS BUCK, BEING a FINE REFRESHENER WE RAN
     into ONE EARLY JANUARY AFTERNOON upon INTRODUCTION to the
     BRITISH CLUB that CLINGS to the END of the DocK at BRIDGETOWN
     like a DETERMINED SPIDER
        Tom Hartnett and Larry Stucky and I had been lying naked on a

                                    . 19 .
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

sugarwhite beach, talking about Gilbert & Sullivan, and about the days
we used to play baseball against each other at Yale and Trinity, and then
we went in to town for a quick one before all the West Indies cruise
passengers had to be lightered off to the RELIANCE anchored out
there, and a friendly British Lieutenant suggested this cooler, which
is also a bracer. . . . Put a large lump of ice in the biggest tumbler in
sight-and 16 oz size is proper. Now add l jigger Barbados rum (any
dark rum will do) and the same of Bacardi, the juice of l small green
lime, l tsp sugar; stir this friendly group to mix thoroughly, then fill
the big glass with ginger beer, or some good ginger ale like imported
Cantrell & Cochrane. Stone bottle ginger beer is best, buyable now in
America.

  WORDS to the WISE No. V, on the MODIFICATION of JA-
  MAICA RUM when LADY GUESTS ARE PRESENT
    Never forget, please, that only 1 lady in 12 really likes the Jamaica
  rum taste. Therefore dilute the rum this way: 3 parts white Cuban
  type to 1 of Jamaica. The aroma will be there and the full round
  Jam;iica flavour too, but in a tempo inoffensive to the most rabid
  Jamaicaphobes.

THE CAFE de PARIS COCKTAIL from "MONTE," a PLACE
WELL-MENTIONED ALREADY in OUR PREvrous VoLUME on FooDs;
SAMPLED FmsT in 1931
  To I jigger dry gin allow l tsp anis or anisette, Yz the white of an
egg-very fresh please-and r tsp cream. Shake well and serve in the
tall style cocktail glass with a stem. Ladies like it!

CASTLE HARBOUR SPECIAL, a Mro-Oc~AN CooLER from
LOVELY BERMUDA
   We've always loved the more outlying parts of this island since our
first stay there of several weeks, back in 1928. In those days most of
tpe islands in Castle Harbour were unsettled and we used to sail over
there in a small boat, and swim the white and pink beaches in utter
seclusion except for our companion, and the· screaming nesting sea

                                  • 20.
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

birds. Gosling Brothers brought out the liquid necessaries to our little
hotel, and here are the proportions. Mix the following in a bar glass:
4 small dices of ripe pineapple, the juice of I small green lime, r tsp
grenadine, I tsp of sweet pineapple soda fountain syrup, add rYz jig-
gers Barbados, Demerara, or Martinique rum, Yz jigger white Ba-
cardi. Stir with a lump of ice and either strain out as-is, or better still
-as we found-turn into a small goblet half filled with cracked ice.
The pineapple syrup gives the touch, and grenadine may be omitted,
to taste. We find the pineapple much more important as a sweetening
agent, and there is no conflict of delicate tastes.

FIVE DELICIOUS CHAMPAGNE OPPORTUNITIES, which
A.RE not to be IGNORED

CHAMPAGNE COCKTAIL No. I, KNo~ as the MAHARAJAH's
BURRA-PEG
   The word Burra in Hindustani means "big," "important," or "big-
time," as the case might be; and "peg" throughout Britaindom means
a "drink"-more often than not a Scotch-and-soda. This particular
champagne affair was broken out on the eve of our departure alone
across India, after a month witl1 Spofford in his big Calcutta bungalow
show in the fashionable Ballygunge section down Chowringhee, be-
yond Lower Circular Road. This Burra-Peg is to the ordinary Cham-
pagne Cocktail what Helen of Troy was to a local shepherd maiden.
 . . . We got aboard the Bombay Mail with our tail between our legs
and lunged across Central India, and later on found ourself in Jaipur
-already mentioned in Melon, Orientale, Volume I. And here in this
amazing town in Rajputana, with its modern government and 120
ft. wide streets, where tigers are protected so the Maharajah may shoot
without fatiguing travel much beyond city limits, where we found
Ambar-lndia's most marvellous deserted city-and got mixed up in
the yearly Festival of the Sun, starting from the Gulta Pass, and with
more elephants, fakirs and jugglers than a three ringed circus; here
we found probably the lonesomest Standard Oil man we'd ever seen .
                                  • 2! •
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

So we joined forces, and of evenings we would sit on the rooftop of
his bungalow, and while the sun set through the sherry-brown dust
cloud that broods over Central India throughout the dry season,
would listen to the vain male peacock's scream, and watched the
Rikki-tikki-tavis-or mongooses, or mongeese, or whatever the hell
they choose to call those trim little animals that would sooner fight
snakes than live-scuttling about their mongoosing business among
the bushes in the garden. And we would sip various tall things, includ-
ing-on Washington's birthday of course-a quartet of Champagne
Burra-Pegs, and he would recount to us certain toothsome bits of
"under-the-punkah" tales about Maharajahs and people; and how,
actually, the young new one we'd just met preferred one wife to the
regiment of 400 or so his dad had thoughtfully left him!
  Duplicating our experience we suggest: the largest chilled goblet
in sight, at least 14 oz, and 16 oz is better. Into this turn 2 jiggers of
good well-chilled cognac, drop in a lump of sugar doused with An-
gostura, fill up with chilled dry champagne and garnish with a spiral
of green lime peel.

CHAMPAGNE COCKTAIL No. II, which with MoDESTLY DoWN-
CAST LASH WE ADMIT Is an ORIGINATION of OuR OWN, & which WE
CHRISTENED the "JIMMIE RoosEVELT"
   Last spring we had the pleasure of turning our house into an oasis,
between planes, for Colonel Jimmie Roosevelt and Grant Mason of
the Civil Aeronautics Commission. No citizen-Republican, Demo-
crat, Socialist, Townsendite, or any other political breed, can meet
Jimmie and not at once be taken with his smile, his sense of humour
 and affable charm. It was warmish, and being a sort of Nephew-in-
 Law of Paul Garrett, dean of all American Vintners, and present
 "father" of Virginia Dare, we brought out 2 chilled bottles of Gar-
 rett Champagne, and created this one.
   Fill a big 16 oz thin crystal goblet with finely cracked ice. In the
 diametrical center of this frosty mass went a lump of sugar well
 saturated with Angostura, then 2 jiggers of good French cognac, then

                                 • 22.
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

fill the glass with chilled champagne, finally floating on very care-
fully 2 tbsp of genuine green Chartreuse-no pineapple, no mint
sprig, no cherry garnish. It is cooling, refreshing, invigorating, a de-
light to eye and palate.

CHAMPAGNE COCKTAIL No. III, in the CHARMING STYLE of
the JocKY CLUB in R10 de JANEmo
   Choose a large tapering champagne cocktail glass; inside of this
build a tower of 4 ice cubes, crown it with a lump of sugar saturated
with 4 dashes of orange bitters. Against the sides of the glass lean 2
sticks of ripe fresh pineapple, encircle the ice tower with a spiral of
green lime peel, and fill with well chilled champagne, medium dry,
and not too acid in type. Now as the crowning gesture carefully float
on r tbsp of cointreau.

 CHAMPAGNE COCKTAIL No. IV, the CoRRECT NA:rvIB of which
Is the IMPERIAL CossAcK CRUSTA., and ONE of the MosT STARTLING
& INTRIGUING DRINKS in the FAR EAST
   We stumbled into this classic, as we did several other items of
precious interest, in the French Concession of Shanghai long before the
days of undeclared wars, and at the house of a friend whose name it
is not seasonable to mention. It is an expensive cocktail as cocktails
march, but now and again we find occasion to celebrate this thing or
that, and no guest can fail to be favourably impressed by the appear-
ance, size and taste of this formula-which came out of White Russia
when Russia was Russia-and Kolchak wasn't retreating in Siberia
ahead of that breaking tide of Reds; the prey of cowardice, politics
and corruption.
   Take a large champagne cocktail glass, and ice it well. Split a green
lime, or lemon, lengthwise and rub its combined oils and juices over
the whole inside of the crystal, and then on out and down a full Yz"
below the rim. First dip this lip into powdered sugar, then fill the
whole glass with the sugar-emptying it out and permitting what
sticks to remain.... Now add 2 dashes of orange bitters, r jigger of
                                . 23 .
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

cognac and Yi that of kiimmel, stirring for a moment in a bar glass
with 3 ice cubes. Empty this into the goblet, fill with chilled dry
champagne, toss in a scarlet rose petal and think of slender, pliable
Russian Princesses and things!

ILE de FRANCE SPECIAL, BEING CHAMPAGNE CocKTAIL No. V
   The bar maitre, one Reynauld, on this somewhat amazing craft has
found that picker-uppers have to be even better than putter-downers
the night before. Long devotion to his art has evolved this delicate
appeal to the intellect, thus causing the numbed nerve centers to nod
closer and closer together until they, at long last, touch-and the day
is begun!
   Into a large champagne glass put a half teaspoon fine sugar, a half
pony of good cognac, fill with very cold dry champagne, and top off
with a dash or two of yellow Chartreuse. The pungent herbs greet the
nostrils, then the cool quenching of the viney bubbly. . . . This being
passed along by an Ile de France habitual crosser, and not from the
usual personal imbibition, naturally arouses our suggestion that two
dashes of any good bitters would help tone the inner man-orange
preferred-and not injure flavour or bouquet in any manner.

  WORDS to the DRINKING WISE No. VI, EMPHASIZING the
  SPECIAL NEED for the CHILLING of GLASSES in MAKING
  any CHAMPAGNE COCKTAIL
  . One of the sharp charms of this drink is its icy coldness. The g!ass
  itself makes an efficient radiator, drawing much more heat agamst
  the liquid than the ordinary sized cocktail glasses. Therefore let's al-
  ways chill our glasses. Warm champagne is a foetjd thing, of brassy
  taste, astringent to the throat, an insult to the nostrils. Also never use
  tumblers for champagne cocktails, use stemmed goblets or ch~­
  pagne cocktail glasses. The heat of the hand soon warms a tumbler s
  contents.

t HAMP AGNE VELVET No. I, BEING the "MERIVELES" from the
MANILA PoLo CLUB
  Meriveles is an extinct volcanic peak cooling its heels across Manila

                                   . 24.
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

Bay to the westward, and when they set the tables out on the grass
terrace just before sunset the gunsight notch in the dead crater frames
the sun. It is a pleasant spot, this terrace, one of the loveliest, in fact,
in all the tropics. For there is always a bit of breeze, the shaded lights
lend an air of intimacy to each rendezvous of the moment-and man
how they do rendezvous in those island tropics! There is even a rniles-
long plume of bats that exit from some distant mountain cave, and
drift like a strand of smoke across the far off sky. The Polo Club not
only produces crisp polo between service and civilian teams, but has
always taken especial pride in the precision, the quality and service of
its drinks. As Monk Antrim once said, "This Meriveles Velvet is an
expensive sort of drink, but when you think everything over, it's
worth it!" It will save life, nourish, encourage and induce sleep in
insomniacs.
   Chill dry champagne well, chill a bottle of Guinness Stout. Get a
big goblet and pour these two liquids in 'arf-and-'ar( Stir gently, and
there we have it.

CHAMPAGNE VELVET, ala MARMION, INVENTED ONE MEMO-
RABLE CRUISE up LoNG IsLAND SouND to the CuP RAcES off NEWPORT
in the YEAR 1934
  Repeat this same process only use Bass Ale instead of the heavier,
more bitter Guinness. Chill everything very cold.

THE PARISIAN CHERRY RIPE, ONE of the VERY FEw FRENCH
CocKTAIL INVENTIONS worth lTs MEASURING TIME
  This one we met eye to eye, and under circumstances not relevant
to this work, on returning through the Bois de Boulogne from a view
at the current vintage of Davis Cup tennis, not so long ago. It is po-
tent, dependable, but one of the most foetid conceptions ever to come
out of shaker when served improperly chilled-for then it is vilely
sweet. Chill long and vigorously. . . . Take a jigger of dry gin, and
half that both of kirsch, and cherry brandy of the French type. Better
mix with shaved ice and put in The Mixer. Float I tsp cherry brandy

                                 . 25 .
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

on top of the frozen product. Garnish with I green and 1 red mara-
schino cherry. Delicious and pretty, both at the same time.

THE COLONIAL COOLER, which WE MET in SANDAKAN, BRIT-
ISH NoRTH BoRNEo, SoME FoURTEEN YEARS BACK
    The water was so shoal there that the big steamer had to anchor
fourteen miles out, and the two main motor lifeboats were lowered,
and started towing the regular lifeboats. And after half an hour run-
ning both motors conked out, and a Borneo prahu with a sail like a
striped butterfly and a gent in a G-string and a headdress that looked
exactly like an American overseas cap, only made out of wine col-
oured velvet, was squatting right on top of the blunt, low mast sup-
 porting the big lateen sail, and the thing steering itsel£ Somehow we
 managed to convey the idea that we were not wallowing there on a
 glassy sea with a molten brass sun striking like a sword across our
 necks, because we wanted to. So he disappeared down wind and then
 two hours later a stuffy little British North Borneo Company tug came
 out and saved the day, and pretty soon we saw the raw, red cliffs back
 of Sandakan, and landed in a maze of godowns and Chinese "Loan
 Farms"-pawn shops to America-and fantan dives.
     We first went out to the Sandakan Club-there'd be a British Club
  on Mount Everest if 2 Britishers could stand the cold there!-and had
  these Coolers, through courtesy of an American who was sentimental
  enough to fetch a mint root out with him. Then our last and most
  vivid memory, outside of the headstones in the little cemetery listing
   the violent causes of death-cobra bite, blow-pipe arrows tipped with
   gum from the deadly ipoh tree, fever, choleq-was the 12 foot hama-
   dryad, or king cobra,-stuffed thank Godl-in the museum. This
    thi~g had a head as big as a tennis racquet and with enough coil ~o
    stnke there was still six feet of him off the floor-staring us coldly m
    the eye.
      To I jigger of dry gin add the same of Italian vermouth. To this
    base donate 1 dash each of Angostura and Amer Picon, and I tsp of
    orange Cura~ao. Stir with a goodly lump of ice in a small highball or

                                   . 26.
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

sour glass, and top off with a squirt of soda, garnished with 2 sprigs
of mint and a stick of ripe pineapple.

 CREOLE CONTENTMENT, an I smrnus PLEASANTRY from that
 CHARMING HoT-BED of INTRIGUE & CuLTURE which Is the PULSE of
the GREAT DELTA CoUNTRY-NEw ORLEANS
   This hazard and liability to consistent maidenhood came to our desk
through office of a friend whose father once was Episcopal Bishop of
Washington, and who writes books about pirates. Don't treat this one
lightly, mes amis . . . .
   Of cognac, Madeira wine and maraschino, take r pony each; turn
this into a bar glass with ice; toss in r dash of orange bitters, stir well,
pour into a big Manhattan glass or saucer type champagne, and gar-
nish with 3 maraschino cherries: red, green and white. . . . Our
personal experience is that it is better to cut the marasc:hino down by
half, stepping up the cognac in that ratio. That business of the 3
cherries, while no doubt a pretty and chivalrous gesture to the femi-
nine victim is, of course, sheerest swank. It is a good drink and needs
little trimming.

THE CUBA LIBRE-or "FREE CuBA"-ANALYZED & IMPROVED
  This native Island concoction started by accident and has caught on
everywhere throughout the south, has filtered through the north and
west. Last summer, for instance, we ran into Kaaba Lee-brays 5000
feet up in the North Carolina Mountains at High Hampton, the year
before in Mexico City and Seattle. Last week in Palm Beach and Cat
Cay. The only trouble with the drink is that it started by accident and
without imagination, has been carried along by the ease of its supply.
Under any condition it is too sweet.
  What's to do? . . . After clinical experimenting for which our
insurance carriers heartily dislike us, we tested several variations of
the original, with this result: the Improved Cuba Libre consists of
r big jigger of Carta de Oro Bacardi, the juice of 1 small green lime,
and the lime peel after squeezing. Put in a Tom Collins glass, muddle

                                  . 27.
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

well to get oil worked up over sides of the glass, add lots of ice lumps,
and fill up with a bottle of chilled coca cola. Stir up once, and salud y
pesetas!                     ·


THE BAKER CUBA REFOR!y1E, an ORIGINATION with the Au-
THOR, which WE HAVE TRANSMITTED W ARILY to OuR FRIEND VESEY
RAINWATER, WHo AMOUNTS to THINGS in CocA CoLA, & which WAs
PRONOUNCED Goon
  While not an exotic from Singapore, any drink originated after a
Miami-Nassau Ocean Yacht Race that ended up with all sails blown
out in a gale and lying stormbound for a week back of Cat Cay, is
possessed of its own spurs in any company, we believe.
  Fill a big goblet with very finely cracked ice, turn in 2 jiggers of
good imported sloe gin, add the juice and spiral peel of r green lime-
then stir vigorously to work the rind oil about, and fill with all the
coca cola the glass will hold. A mild and delicious cooler, but is sweet
enough that it must be very cold indeed to be good.


THE CUERNAVACA SPECIAL, from the FILES of ONE MANUEL
who PRESIDES behind MAHOGANY at the HoTEL de la SILVA CASINO BAR
    As we have indicated, Cuernavaca is Mexico City's summer resort
 for people who matter, a habit begun by Cortez himself after the con-
 quest; and here small modern palaces rub elbows with 16th Century
 affairs built by the great Conquistador. Hotel de la Silva, until Presi-
 dent Cardenas took the reins, was an unbelievable Mexican Monte
  Carlo-an incredible place of moderne cello.P.hane drapes, exotic
  m~rals-not by Diego Rivera, praise be!-a vast pool of limpid moun-
  tam water outside for swimming, and roulette wheels, and every
  known device for acquisition of cash, inside. Manuel talks of the good
  old da~s now, but he has a twinkle in his eye, and originate~ this bit
1 of gemus as he expressed it-por las senoras. It is a nicer dnnk than

  the old favourite Pink Lady. Test it out next time.
     Take I jigger each of cognac and dry French vermouth and put in

                                 . 28.




                             -------           ~-----------          -
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

a shaker with 2 tsp of Creme de Cacao, r or 2 tsp of grenadine to
taste; the white of r fresh egg and r tsp of ¥ck cream. Shake hard and
pour into a big Manhattan glass letting a little of it foam prettily over
lip of the glass. Garnish with sprigs of tender mint, hang a split red
maraschino cherry over the glass edge too: Take 2 short scarlet cello-
phane straws, touch their lower ends onto the gl~ss foot and press the
top ends against the overflowed foam where they stick cleverly to the
outside of the glass. A nice gesture with all fancy cream-egg cocktails,
too, by the way.

  WORDS to the WISE No. VII, OFFERING up an EARNEST
  PLEA for RECENTNESS in ALL EGGS to BE°USED in COCK-
  TAILS or DRINKS of any KIND, for that MATTER
     A stale or storage egg in a decen·t mixed drink is like a stale or
  storage joke in critical and intelligent company:)~.schew them rabidly.
  If really fresh eggs can't be had, mix other type drinks, for the result
  will reflect no merit round the hearth, no matter how hospitable it
  may be.

DAISY de SANTIAGO, a LoVELY THING INTRODUCED to Us through
the GRACIOUS OFFICES of the LATE FAcUNO BACARDI, of LAMENTED
MEMORY
   The Bacardi people were always mighty nice about taking visiting
yachtsmen and other travelers through their factory, and the result
was always amazingly gratifying in several ways. As many of us
know they have erected a special small skyscraper in Havana, too,
where visitors may go for free Bacardi drinks, and we must confess
that our name appears in four places on pages of their guest book in
a brilliant modern bar smart enough to make New York jealous. To
our mind, along with the immortal Daiquiri, this is the best Bacardi
drink on record.
   Take a big thin goblet and fill to the brim with shaved ice. Take a
bar glass and put in r Yz jiggers Bacardi, the strained juice of r green
lime, r to 1 Yz tsp of bar syrup, optional. Stir well and pour onto the
ice, stir up once, garnish with green mint and fresh fruit, and float on

                                  . 29.
               THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

Yz jigger of yellow Chartreuse. Personally we find the Chartreuse
                           ,, need, and a squirt of charged water adds
brings all the sweetening we
a sparkle. A lovely thing indeed.

AND NOW, MESSIEURS et MESDAMES, the ONE & 01\'LY TROPI-
CAL DAIQUIRI
   We honestly believe that more people have boasted about the origin
of this happy thought than any modern drink. We have had to smile
quietly on at least 4 occasions; once overhearing 3 Cuban gentlemen
who had never been out of Havana, 1 alleged German title on a West
Indies Cruise, 1 Racquet Club Member on a fishing trip-why is it
that so many German alleged titles and fancy club members seem to
talk very loud and authoritatively ?-and 2 female frequenters of the
New York Colony Club. All of these assorted folk either had helped
invent this drink or had been like THAT with the ones who had in-
vented it!
   The whole business is tommyrot, unless these persons knew. a cer-
tain 2 officials of the Yankee-run Cuban mining firm taken over dur-
ing the great war by Bethlehem Steel, and which operated in the
mountains not too far out of Santiago de Cuba, where the firm of
Bacardi y Cia., had, and has, its being. The invention was simple, as
so many good things in life are simple, and right smack after the Span-
ish-American war, too. In those days not 1 American in 10,000 had
ever heard of Ron Bacardi, much less invented drinks with it.
    There was fever. Doctors still thought that a lot of yellowjack
 malaria cases came from drinking water and swamp mists. They
 couldn't turn off the swamp mists but they knew that diluted alcohol
 w~s a di~in~ectant against germs. So they put a little rum in. t.heir
 bmled dnnkmg water. This tasted pretty bad so some bright citizen
 squeezed a lime into the thing, and a little sugar to modify the acid.
 I~~ made from .d~stilled water took the tropical blood heat off th.e
 ili.ing. The 2 originators were my friend Harry E. Stout, now donn-
 ciled in Englewood, New Jersey, and a mining engineer associate,
 Mr. Jennings Cox. TIME: summer of i8g8. PLACE: Daiquiri, a
                                . 30.
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

village near Santiago and the Bacardi plant, Cuba. Hence the name
"Daiquiri."
   Like the Martini, Manhattan, Side Car and other immortals, the
Daiquiri marched straight around the world, and we have tried them
in many places and circumstances-including the old Plaza, the Ha-
bana Yacht Club, Country Club, Hotel Nacional-between revolu-
tionary bombings-Sloppy Joe's, La Florida, the Bacardi Building,
and factory in Santiago; and other spots in Cuba. In spite of all the
loud speeches on the subject we claim there is no "best" place for
Daiquiris. The only thing that can go wrong, besides insufficient
chilling, is that it is often made too sweet. Technique progressed from
the days of drinking with 1 lump of ice in a tumbler, to the flute
cocktail glass with the finely cracked ice left in; then came the electric
vibrator mixer and the screen strainer to improve the thing further
-and it became called the "Tropical" Daiquiri. Now that The Mixer
is available, it frosts beautifully, in a few seconds.
   The original Harry Stout-Jennings Cox mixture for the Original
Cuban Daiquiri was: I whisky glass level full of Carta Blanca, or
Carta de Oro Bacardi rum, 2 tsp of sugar, the juice of 1Yz small green
limes-strained; and very finely cracked ice.
   Either shake very hard with finely cracked ice and pour ice and all
into a tall flute cocktail glass, or put the same things into The Mixer,
and let frost into the delicious sherbet consistency we so admire nowa-
days . . . . Never use lemon juice. And remember please, that a too-
sweet Daiquiri is like a lovely lady with too much perfume. Sugar
should be cut down to I tsp, to our belief, and a Manhattan glass is
less likely to tip over, in steady service!

ERNEST HEMINGWAY'S REVIVER on MoRNINGs after ANY-
THING, MADE of HoLLANDS & other THINGS, which WE CALLED "DEATH
in the GuLF STREAM," but FouND MosT VALUABLE
  Drinking Holland gin drinks is like the fanciful cliche about eat-
ing olives-when you like one you always like them. For many years
we had hated the stuff with a passion, holding its taste to be like fer-

                                  . 31 •
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

mented radishes mixed with spirits of turpentine. One January 2 years
back we took MARMION in a howling no'theaster along with the,
then, 4 year bride, a companion, and an insane steward, and pointed
her down to Key West to get some receipts from Hemingway for the
cookery book. We fished the Gulf Stream by day, and ate and drank
and talked half the night. Even by the second day we were withering
slightly on vine, and along with raw conch salad, or "souse," listed in
Volume I, we got Hemingway's other picker-upper, and liked it.
   Take a tall thin water tumbler and fill it with finely cracked ice.
Lace this broken debris with 4 good purple splashes of Angostura,
add the juice and crushed peel of I green lime, and fill glass almost
full with Holland gin . . . . No sugar, no fancying. It's strong, it's
bitter-but so is English ale strong and bitter, in many cases. We
don't add sugar to ale, and we don't need sugar in a Death in the Gulf
Stream-or at least not more than I tsp. Its tartness and its bitterness
are its chief charm. It is reviving and refreshing; cools the blood and
inspires renewed interest in food, companions and life.

FRITZ-FREDERICK ABILDGAARD & ALONE-in-the-CAR-
IBBEAN-FENGER'S DOMINICA TOPET
   When Fritz was sailing his sliver-size canoe YA.CKABOO and
making his 50 and 60 mile open water ocean hops from Trinidad up
to the Virgin Islands, he annexed this liquid threat to his log book;
and double checked during the cruise of DIABLESSE several years
later. "This drink," Fritz shouted with his fanatical look, which is a
co?1bination of a revivalist preacher and a cloven hoofed satyr, "is a
dnnk for those of not too Scotch descent and detailed instructions
may be deciphered on Page 2 43 of The Cruise of the Diablesse (Adv·)·
                                             ' I


 So to fabricate 4 T opets:
   "Ta~e 5 ponies of any good medium dark rum, and in this soak
 the s~iral .of a sizeable green lime, muddling ilbout to extract the
 ~s~ential 01ls. _Now add an equal pax:t of cold water, and the strained
JUlCe of the lm_1e. Next put Yz tsp gomme syrup in each glass. Now
 carefully flow 1Il the lime-rum mix, being careful to float it on so it

                                . 32 .
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

doesn't blend with syrup. More carefully still flow on the Angostura
bitters-at least a good Ya" thick on top of everything. . . . It is a sort
of Pousse Cafe in appearance, but far more artistic in results, and in
the island of British Dominica it is served as an appetizer, before a
good dinner, by the discriminating.


EAST INDIA COCKTAIL, which CAME to OuR DEVOTED ArnN-
TION also in FIRPo's, in CALCUTTA
   It is mild and appetite-inspiring in hot weather, and is now known
everywhere, but we append it just the same. Into a bar glass turn I
jigger each of dry French vermouth and really good really dt·y sherry
-the usual sweet American sherry just won't serve. Add 2 dashes of
orange bitters, plenty of big-lump ice, then stir with a bar spoon and
turn into a Manhattan glass. Garnish with green cherry or not, to
preference.


THE EAST INDIA HOUSE COCKTAIL, BEING ONE for ANY
MAN's BooK, & GARNERED in THE RoYAL BOMBAY YACHT CLuB, INDIA,
Ig32, while the-then-FIANcEE SIGHT-SA w across INDIA to DELHI,
AGRA, BENARES & FATEHPUR SIKRI, & CALCUTTA
  Take 1Yz jiggers of cognac, 1 tsp pineapple syrup-the soda foun-
tain kind-and put in a shaker. Add 2/3 tsp maraschino, 1 tsp orange
Curacrao, 3 dashes of orange or Angostura bitters, according to prefer-
ence. Shake with lots of fine ice and strain into a Manhattan glass,
twisting a bit of lime peel on at the last.


THE CLAN McGREGOR EGG NOGG, BEING a LOVELY, FoRcE-
FUL THING BASED on BRANDY, BACARDI, & FINE OLD SHERRY, from
SCOTLAND
   There are a hundred and one Egg Noggs about the world, and
many of them already set between the covers of books, but this Scot-
tish institution was rare enough to be the only one we include in this
collection of exotica. It is a milder mix, which we consider a blessing.

                                . 33.
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

Also, having no cream, it is more refreshing and not so likely to be
gastrically disastrous as the over-rich customary formulae we have
consumed on certain festive occasions.
  This mixture needs simply to be multiplied for any company, and
serve in thin 12 oz goblets, not the usual thick punch cups. . . .
Yz pony of good cognac, 2 ponies of good Spanish dry sherry, X pony
of Carta de Oro Bacardi; l tsp or so of sugar, to taste, the yolk of an
egg and l cup or so of chilled milk. . . . First put egg and sugar into
the bar glass and beat well, then add spirits and 4 lumps of ice. Stir or
shake briskly, strain into goblet, add cold milk and dust both nutmeg
and cinnamon on top.

A FAREWELL to HEMINGWAY, BEING a SoRT of KIRSCH
COLLINS WE INVENTED on the NIGHT WE SAW HEMINGWAY & BULL-
FIGHTER SIDNEY FRANKLIN off on the PLANE for NEW YoRK, & LOYAL-
IST SPAIN
   There is no reason to this drink. It just happened because Ernest
prefers kirschwasser, and it was a muggy, half-breathless sort of night.
The cherry syrup sweet, of course, can be varied to taste. . . · Take
1Yz. jiggers of kirsch, X pony of cherry syrup-again the drug store
kind-and the juice of l big green lime. Shake this mixture with 4 ice
cubes, turn ice and all into a collins glass of at least 14 oz capacity, drop
in a spiral peel of green lime, and fill glass not quite full with good
chilled club soda. . . . We've later found that raspberry syrup is very
 decent, also.

MEXICAN "FIRING SQUAD" SPECIAL, which Is A CREATION
WE ALMOST BECAME WRECKED upon in-of ALL SPoTs-LA CUCU-
RACHA BAR, in MEx1co C1TY, in 1937
   Now an~ again we found ourselves just a little fed up ';itb rather
casual Mexican mixes, and the guidance of 2 young Mexican cabal-
leros whose parents mattered in official circles in that city of Mexico.
We were herded into fancy, rather dull places, served too warm cl.rinks.
And finally on l occasion we broke off by ourself, sought out this bar,

                                   . 34.
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

-where an aristocrat native oughtn't to be seenl-ordered things in
our own way.
   This drink is based on tequila, top-Right distillation of the Maguey
plant. Use a tall collins glass and snap fingers at the consequences .
. . . Take 2 jiggers of tequila, being sure to purchase a good brand,
for there are many raw distillations. Add the juice of 2 small limes,
1 Yi to 2 tsp of grenadine, or plain gomme syrup. Add 2 dashes of
Angostura bitters. Chill the glass, pack with finely cracked ice, turn
in the mixture and garnish with slice of orange, I of pineapple and a
red cherry.


THE COLOMBO "FLYING FISH" which WAS TAKEN into the
FoLD on a MEMORABLE NrGHT in CEYLON, under CIRCUMSTANCES
PARTLY RELEVANT to MENTION, & already FRACTIONALLY DESCRIBED in
the FoREWORD to this VoLUME                        ·
   Take 1 jigger of dry gin, put in 1 dash of peach bitters, Yi pony of
yellow Curacrao, Yi tsp of maraschino; then shake with plenty of
cracked ice and serve with proper flourish in a Manhattan glass, gar-
nished with a slice of orange. We have found that when peach bitters
are not too readily available that a parallel, and most delicious alterna-
tive is to ignore the Curacrao and bitters idea entirely, substituting Yi
pony of Cordial Medoc-a lovely French liqueur based on peach pits
and other delicate Gallic interpretations. It is readily procurable at any
spirits shop, and Americans should make its acquaintance-not
merely stopping with benedictine and cointreau.


THE SPANISH ORANGE FLOWER COOLER, or REFRESCO,
CALLED FLOR de NARAN/A, SEVILLANO
   From lovely Seville.
   Oranges aren't absolutely essential, as fresh grapefruit juice will do
-provided we carefully add what nature lacks in sweetening. Actu-
ally it is a modern Sevillian origination along the American cocktail
route, and isn't bad at that. Use a 2 oz jigger, not one of those scant

                                 . 35 .
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

l'l'Z oz affairs which squeezes four or five extra drinks out of every
bottle for our up-to-date barkeeps!

Chill glasses, dampen edge and dip      2 jiggers dry gin

    in powdered sugar                   2 tsp orange flower water
Put a small spiral of orange peel in    Sugar to taste
    each                                Juice of 2 oranges

  Use pretty large glasses, as the ice must do a bit of diluting for us.
Fill large shaker with lots of ice; frappe vigorously. Pour out and
twist a bit of peel over each to add the fragrance of flavour of the
essential oils to the ensemble.


THE FOURTH REGIMENT COCKTAIL, BROUGHT to OuR
AMAZED ATTENTION by ONE CoMMANDER LIVESEY, in CoMMAND of
ONE of His MAJESTY'S DAPPER LITTLE SLOOPS of WAR, out in BoM-
BAY, A.D. 1931
  This, we discovered finally, was merely a Manhattan Cocktail made
in 4 oz size, spiced with l dash each of celery, Angostura and orange
bitters-but why the last was included we never have understood as
the Angostura dominates. Chill very cold and garnish with a twist of
green lime peel squeezed so as to deposit oil upon the waters after the
drink is poured.


LA FRAISE d'AMOUR, another TENTATIVE ADVENTUROUS OFFER-
ING from ONE of those QurnT SPOTS in the B01s de BouLoGNE, REFERRED
to before, from TIME to TIME                    I
  Another spring, it was in 1926, we sat out under the trees and dined
and danced and discussed matters that were old when Marie Antoi-
nette rode to the guillotine in her tragic tumbril, or when du Barry
passed in her royal carriage. This Fraise d'Amour, my dear friends, is
~ot a woman's drink in the usual concept of the word; hut, on occa-
s10n, can be very apt to a charming lady. It is a deceiver; mild-tasting,
insidious, slow to act, but thorough at the last!
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

   Into a bar glass put r pony of fresh ripe strawberry juice after being
strained. Add 2 dashes of maraschino, r dash of orange bitters, then
r Yz jiggers of good cognac. Stir and pour into a thin crystal goblet-
not too large-filled with shaved ice, stir once and garnish with r dead-
ripe strawberry teed up in the precise center.

GABY des LYS COCKTAIL, ONE from OLD NEw YoRK PRE-
PRoHIBITION DAYs 1when DIAMOND ]IM BRADY WAs ALIVE, & the
WINTER GARDEN WAs NEw YoRK's only SMOKING THEATRE, and the
IMMORTAL GABY WAS PLAYING with AL JoLSoN & HARRY PILcER
  Gaby the lovely, Gaby the delightfully mad, Gaby the free soul-
who died too young and gave a fortune in pearls to the Paris poor!
Gaby is gone, and Bustanoby's old Beaux Arts is gone, and the first
Rector's is a memory, but her memory marches on-and this cocktail
named in her honour.
  It is very simple, crisp. Tor jigger of good dry gin add Yz pony of
orgeat syrup and r tsp of absinthe, or a trifle less. Frappe very cold
indeed or it will tend to over-sweetness, and serve in a Manhattan glass.

THE FAR EASTERN GIMLET, CLASSIC Now ALL over the
ORIENT-from BoMBA Y to HoNGKONG, & FuRTHER
  Why on earth this stroke of genius stands unheralded and unsung
in this fair and allegedly free land of ours shall, to us, always be a mys-
tery like who it is that designs expensive radio cabinets, why all cinema
stars long to ruin themselves playing highbrow roles, and why good
prize fighters want to write fiction .... Throughout the whole swing
of the Far East, starting with Bombay-down the Malabar Coast to
Colombo; to Penang, Singapore, Hongkong and Shanghai, the Gim-
let is just as well known as our Martini here.
   The main thing in its favour is that, unlike most cocktails, it is not
"warming" in hot weather, and in fact is a good cooler. It is simple,
without fancy fizzings, and is one to experiment with until the precise
amount of lime cordial is found, to taste. . . . This last is a British
invention based on a similar essence to Rose's Lime Juice-which
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

comes in the slender decorative bottle we see back of most good soda
fountains-but is not quite so pungent. Soda fountain lime syrup also
would do in a pinch. We have approximated it with fine results by
diluting it with equal amounts of water. ... Take a big saucer cham-
pagne glass, put in 1 jigger either of dry or old Tom gin, r tsp g omme
syrup or sugar, Yz tsp-to taste-of lime syrup or lime cordial. Fill up
with chilled plain water, add r ice cube and thin slice of big green
lime. Don't use soda water, please.


GIN & BITTERS, the GIN PAHIT-PRONOUNCED PlE-EET-of
JAVA, the "PINK GIN" of INDIA & POINTS EASTWARD where BRITANNIA
RULES
   This of course has long since gone round the world, but it forms
such an important part of men's drinking life in the colonies that we
append it here. Either dry or old Tom gin is proper, and the latter
appeals most to us. Take a thin, stemmed cocktail glass. Shake in 4 or
S dashes of Angostura, tip the glass like the tower of Pisa and twirl
it between thumb and fingers. Whatever Angostura sticks to the glass
through capillary attraction is precisely the right amount, although a
lot of old India hands whose stomachs are lax find that a lot more
Angostura than that is in order to stimulate appetite. Gently pour off
the extra bitters that do not cling. Fill glass with gin. That's all. Super-
fluous bitters go back in the bottle, on the floor, or out the port hole
or window-depending upon who, where and what we are.


COMMANDER LIVESEY'S GIN-BLIND                          1

 . W.e shall never forget the courteous open-hearted wardroorr: hos-
pitality of the British navy in Indian waters, and Commander Livesey
~together with his charming Australian wife-least of all. Along
w1.th another .very mentionable discovery Livesey's head-bearer-a
High-Caste high-binder in the Mohammedan priesthood on feast
days, was a wizard with the shaker. . . . Livesey's words were: "We
don't prescribe this just before target practice, gentlemen."
               THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

    Gin, 6                               Cura~ao, 3
    Good cognac, 2                       Orange bitters, dash

  Mix with lots of ice, shake vigorously and serve in a Manhattan
glass. A twist of yellow orange peel is optional, to add oil.

GIN & QUININE WATER, or "Gm & ToNic"-ORIGINATED to
COMBAT FEVERS, REAL or ALLEGED, & which LATER BECAME an EsTAB-
LISHED DRINK in INDIA & the TROPICAL BRITISH EAST, & STILL LATER
BECAME AccEPTED over HERE by AMERICAN HosTs WHO WANTED to
IMPRESS FoLK with HAVING CoMBED the ORIENT
   This is merely a gin highball, using dry or old·:fom gin-either I
or r Yz jiggers-and filled up with chilled quinine tonic water. All
Americans, and some Britishers not so hidebound as to insist on
brassy, half.warm drinks, added 2 lumps of ice, an_d a t~ist of lime
peel. We like the latter style better, but must warn all those who em-
brace this drink to remember it is a medicine and not primarily a
stimulant only. On more than one occasion we have temporarily
showed aberration on this subject, with the result that our ears rang
unmercifully and next day we felt like Rameses II, reclzauffe. We
suggest from 2 to 4 drinks of gin and tonic as being plenty for any
one sitting.

GIN FIZZES, to the NuMBER or ELEVEN, which SHALL BE REMEM-
BERED LoNG after THEIR SPONSORS ARE DEAD & GONE, & WHOSE GENIUS
WE RANK alongside that of the INVENTORS of the MINT JULEP, & other
TRULY IMMORTAL DISCOVERIES

FIRST of ALL the AZIZ SPECIAL, BEING the IMPECCABLE GIN
Fizz of Aziz EFFENDI, MoNITOR of the ONE & ONLy WINTER PALACE
HoTEL, which Is in LoucQsoR, in EGYPT, up the NILE FouR HuNDRED
EIGHTEEN ENGLISH MILES by RAIL, & FOUR HUNDRED FIFTY by
DAHABEAH
  Those of us who have journeyed up the East Bank of the Nile by

                                • 39 •
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

train, Imperial Airways flying boat, or da!tabeah-one of those odd,
romantic looking and amazingly luxurious river sailing craft with
their pointed lateen sails curving half moon style against the cloud-
less sky-to Loucqsor know the Winter Palace and Aziz Effendi;
know his superb gin fizz. It is a wonderful thing to sit on the terrace
of a wine-clear evening, pleasantly wearied from a day of marveling
in incredible Karnak, and after our drive in a carriage down the
Avenue of the Sphinxes, with a 14 oz example of Aziz' art in our
hands. Actually what he has done is to take the original New Orleans
Silver Fizz, and through meticulous chilling and the use of fine
Schweppes club soda instead of carbonated city-main water, has im-
mortalized the thing like a graceful imported, expatriated, work of
art, and set it up again in the Valley of the Nile. It may be com-
manded with London dry gin or old Tom-to your wishes. The
orange flower water is stepped up probably because the whole amaz-
ing East adapts perfume to many more uses than the American office
of making lovely ladies smell like bowers of roses . . . . Using a big
glass the call is for more gin than usual.
   Put l to l Yi tsp of sugar into the shaker, add 2 jiggers of dry or old
Tom gin-to preference-the juice of l small lemon, l pony of thick
cream and l tbsp of fresh egg white. Put in lots of finely cracked ice,
shake hard and long, turn into a big goblet leaving a few ice lumps
floating. Add 2 or 3 good dashes of orange flower water. Now fill up
 with chilled Number l grade club soda. Stir once. Serve immediately
 and drink soon thereafter, since no gin fizz gains virtue even from
 brief neglect.

THE BIRD of PARADISE, a COLOURFUL, EYE-FILLING EXPERIENCE
WE FouND in SIGNING OuR NAMES to the BooK at the STRANGERS
CLUB, COLON, PANAMA
   T~is strange little club has many famous names in its l~gbook,
Robmson of the SVAAP, Alain Gerb-ault, poor Dick Halliburton
whom we first met in Singapore before he flew to Sarawak in 1932,
sitting at table with Ruth Elder and Walter Camp. We always have

                                  . 40.
               THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

found a welcome there during the 10 or l doz times we have been in
the "Zone" going west to east or vice versa. . . . Actually this Bird of
Paradise Fizz is Aziz' Special to which 2 to 3 tsp of raspberry syrup
have been added instead of the sugar, and juice of l Yz limes instead
of the lemon. Float on a red rose petal, or any scarlet small tropical
blossom, like bougainvillea, as a final garnish. Shake hard and long.

THE CREOLE FIZZ, BEING a LATIER DAY HoT WEATHER & MILDER
VARIATION of the ORIGINAL NEw ORLEANS SILVER Frzz, & EMPLOYING
SLOE GIN to LEND !Ts SHY BLUSH to the CoLoUR ScHEME
  Lyle Saxon gave us this one away back in 1930 during a visit to
New York, telling us about his acquisition of the old French Creole
house on Royal Street. . . . Take either the Aziz Special or New Or-
leans Fizz and substitute an equal amount of good imported sloe gin,
and cutting cream down a trifle. Garnish wi~ a sprig of fresh green
mint and that's all.

THE GIN FIZZ TROPICAL, BEING ONE MoRE SoUND BrT of
LIQUID NouRISHMENT from where, to OUR RouTINE MIND, EXIsTs
the BEST & MosT CONSISTENT GROUP of MIXED DRINKS-& MIXED
DRINKS MIXERS-Oil EARTH: MANILA, p .I.
   This again is an affair based on the New Orleans Fizz background
but using pineapple syrup up to 3 tsp instead of sugar, and juice from
1 Yz green limes instead of lemon. Jim Steele introduced us to this
one-he's Tourist Association head for the Islands-on our trip to
the Pagsanjan-pronounced "pack-san-han"-River for the dugout
canoe trip down the rapids through a stupendous wild mill-race flung
through a rocky gorge of towering walls hung with weird tropical
growths, peopled with gibbering monkeys and vivid unnameable
birds; a feat for which we now possess a fine illuminated parchment
diploma. Thermos carafes, ice cubes, hampers of civilized fodder both
liquid and solid, made odd contrast to all of this primeval setting, to
the native boatmen-2 to a canoe. Fresh green mint is the garnish, a
few tender leaves, recently broken off and stuck in a round and fra-

                                 . 41 .




                                                                           I
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

grant rosette there right under the drinker's nose. Don't use a straw ;
the closer the mint comes the nicer.

THE MID-OCEAN HIGHBALL, which CoNTilARY to N ATIVE
T1n.E Is a LEGITIMATE Fizz, BEING an ExoTic from BERMUDA
  Not so long ago we went to this charming island with St. Georges as
a base camp. We pedalled, sailed, fished and golfed. Swam naked as
Adam off small isolated islands with beaches like faintly rose-tinted
granulated sugar. The Mid-Ocean Country Club had a gentleman
back of mahogany who, then at least, took his art seriously. Actually
he called it a "cocktail." Burt MacBride-Associate Editor of Cos-
mopolitan-who flew down on the first Bermuda Clipper with Pan-
American Airways and first told us about the drink, called it a "high-
ball," but in spite of this odds-on risk we call it a "fizz" still.
  Take 1 jigger of old Tom gin, and Yz jigger each of cognac and
French dry vermouth. Donate 2 dashes of orange bitters. Shake well
with cracked ice, strain into a highball glass and add chilled club soda
to taste. Twist on a bit of green lime peel.

THE NEW ORLEANS ORIGINAL GOLDEN FIZZ
  This is simply the usual New Orleans Silver Fizz, only instead of
using egg white the yolk of 1 egg is used; or a whole, quite small, egg.
Fresh eggs are imperative, let us repeat.

NEW ORLEANS FIZZ No. I, with DRY GIN & a ToucH of
KIRSCH WASSER
   This, to our mind, is the best New Orleans Fizz of the original type.
It also may be used with old Tom gin, of course. . . . Take I Yz jiggers
of gin, I pony of thick cream, the white of an egg, juice of Yz lemon,
I to 1Yz tsp sugar and 1 tsp kirsch. Shake hard in lots of cracked ice,
strain into goblet and top off with chilled club soda, or seltzer, to
t~te. ~range flower water of course is optional. We feel that where
kirsch Is used that the two bouquets will neutralize each other. So
omit the orange fio wer water if k i,,-sch is mixed with the drink, use it
when not.

                                 . 42.
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

THE AMER PICON "POUFFLE" FIZZ, SOMETHINGNATIVE ORIGI-
NALLY to PARJs, & E COUNTERED at the CAFE du DoME, where in SPITE
of the AMERICAN INUNDATION of PsEuDo-BoHEMIANS Is STILL a
MoDERATELY CoNSISTE T RENDEzvous for other AMERICANS over
THERE Wtto Do THI ·cs with THEm BRAINS & H ANDS
  Simply turn I to r Yz jiggers of Amer Picon into a shaker, add lots
of cracked ice, the white of r fresh egg, Yz jigger of grenadine, shake,
then turn everything into a big thin goblet and fill up with club soda
to suit taste. This is a fine stomachic, and inspires interest in foods.

THE ORIGINAL GIN FIZZ which WAS Lo G a SECRET of the
BROTHERS RAMos, and which W AS GrVEN out by THEM, in a Frr of
GENEROUS ABERRATION during Oun ALLEGED & RrnrcULous DnouTH
of the PROHIBITION ERA
   The Ramos Fizz has long been synonymous with the finest in all
the New Orleans art. Thinking that the formula, like any history deal-
ing with the dead arts, should be engraved on the ~ablets of history,
it was given to the world after the now rejuvenated Ramos bar closed
for the "dry" era. The main secret of excellence was the platoon of
8 or I doz blackamoors who passed the shaker over shoulders to the
next, after each had literally shaken his heart out chilling the drink.
 . . . Iced glasses, and iced soda, also were vital factors of excellence.
   To I jigger of old Tom gin add 1 tsp sugar, 3 to 4 drops of orange
Bower water, white of r fresh egg, 2 tbsp cream, and the juice--
strained-of Yz lime and Yz lemon.
   The shaker is first iced with a tumbler of finely cracked ice, then
ingredients go in, then the shake-which when done by hand should
last at least r full minute. Serve strained in a thin goblet and top off
with chilled club soda of best grade, to taste. . . . Here again we
earnestly recommend The Mixer, only using about Y4 goblet of fine
ice. This Mixer reduces ice to powder, changes consistency of main
drink to a sherbet; then the soda, added and stirred, reduces this first
frozen consistency to a creamy, slick, chill loveliness. We always use
this method to save overheat from physical exertion. It changes the

                                  . 43 .
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

tempo of the drink slightly, due to a trifle of ice still remaining in it
after final soda goes in; but like the present "Tropical" Daiquiri thus
frozen in The Mixer, it is an improvement over the old manual shak-
ing method.

       a
FIZZ, la VIOLETTE, a CAIRENE INNOVATION SERVED Us in the
HoME of AHMED SOLIMAN, whose FAMILY for 400 YEARS HAs MADE
& MARKETED PERFUMES & PERFUME EssENCES in the SAME SPOT in the
KHAN el KALILI BAZAAR, CAIRO
   Ahmed we consider one of our best friends in the Near East. He it
was who arranged a duck shoot for us up in the Oasis Lakes in 1932,
at Fayyoum; who sent us Ambar cigarettes on the occasion of our
marriage, and other kindly gestures too numerous to mention. Long
may his shadow extend-this man who numbers every crowned head
among his clients-and thanks for this lovely Fizz, incidentally.
  Omit the orange flower water from the Ramos Fizz, adding instead
1 pony of imported French or Bois Creme de Violette liqueur, or
Creme Yvette. Mix everything else in exactly the same way, touch the
outside of the crystal glass' lip with the glass rod in the Bacon stopper
of a bottle of violette perfume or essence. Serve with garnish of 1 or
2 violet blossoms floated on top. It is a pretty thing to look at, to taste,
to smell. It has caused more than one bachelor to become heralded,
with cause, as a stoutly clever fellow perennially capable of the right,
the judicious, thing! . . . In our own practice-not trusting the value
of taking perfumes internally, we supply 2 short purple cellophane
straws, and touch the perfume to their upper one-third just beyond
lip reach, yet close to the nose tip for fragrance.      1



THE JAMAICA "GINGER" COCKTAIL, from the GuEsT BooK
RECORD of a FRIEND WISE ENOUGH to WINTER on the SHORES of
LOVELY MoNTEGo BAY; & DISCOVERED, A.D. 1930, under CmcuMsTANCEs
UNIMPORTANT to this WoRK
  Take I jigger of dry gin, Yz jigger of claret or Burgundy, Yz jigger
of strained orange juice, and 3 good dashes of Jamaica ginger extract .

                                  . 44.
               THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

Shake with cracked ice and pour into a Manhattan glass. . . . We
find this a good picker-upper, a stomachic par excellence, a carmina-
tive of prompt efficiency, for ladies or gentlemen troubled with any
of the various ailments from lack of appetite to plain old pre-war
stomach ache or collywobbles.

THE IMMORTAL SINGAPORE RAFFLES GIN SLING, MET
in 1926, & thereafter NEVER FoRGOTTEN
   There are other good Gin Slings in the East. Spence's Hotel, a small
one in Calcutta, frequented rather than the Grand or the Great East-
ern, by business gentlemen who like good food, well mixed drinks,
has the best in India-outside of those blended by amateurs at home.
But the Singapore name clings to this famous drink, and along with
the famous Shepheard's in Cairo, Hotel Raffles is probably the best
known of any in the Orient. The Brothers Sarkies are canp.y man-
agers with whom we have had some moderately large booking ac-
counts on 2 occasions. Singapore stands at the cross roads of the East,
and whoever has been to Singapore knows the Raffles. Here we can
sit and w.atch steamers, warships, prahus, sampans, yachts, and God
knows what else riding in the Roadstead off Collyer Quay. Just look-
ing around the terrace porch we've seen Frank Buck, the Sultan of
Johore, Aimee Semple McPherson, Somerset Maugham, Dick Halli-
burton, Doug Fairbanks, Bob Ripley, Ruth Elder and Walter Camp
-not that this is any wonder.
   We've had many Gin Slings out at Seaview, the summer seaside
resort of the F.M.S., and where we found the quite delightful atmos-
phere marred with a quietly grim touch due to the whole bathing area
being surrounded with tough wire netting to dampen ardour and
appetite of the sharks infesting those warm seas. But we still concede
the palm to the- Raffles for the best Gin Sling. Hotel Nederlander, the
Harmonie and Concordia Clubs in Batavia, Java, also make good Gin
Slings-the Harmonie Club-where we are eating and drinking at
table in a lovely courtyard one minute, feel a breath of cool night air,
and see one of the most startling sights in the world: a couple of bun-

                                 . 45 .
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

dred men and women suddenly getting up and sprinting for the quad-
rangle of verandahs before the torrential rains put 4" of water where
they were sitting 5 minutes before! But the Raffles drink is best, why
we don't know, except that the best Planter's Punch on earth is at the
Myrtlebank in Kingston. When our soft-footed Malay boy brings the
4th Sling and finds us peering over the window sill at the cobra-
handling snake charmers tootling their confounded flutes below he
murmurs "jaga baik-baik Tuan"-"jaga bye-bye, too-wan," as it
sounds in English-or "take care master" as it means in English. The
Singapore Gin Sling is a delicious, slow-acting, insidious thing.
  The original formula is r/3 each of dry gin, cherry brandy and
Benedictine; shake it for a moment, or stir it in a bar glass, with 2
fairly large lumps of ice to chill. Turn into a small ro oz highball
glass with one lump of ice left in and fill up to individual taste with
chilled club soda. Garnish with the spiral peel of r green lime. In other
ports in the Orient drinkers often use C & C ginger ale instead of
soda, or even stone bottle ginger beer.
   Our own final improved formula calls for 2 parts dry or Tom gin,
to r part cherry brandy and r part Benedictine. This is dryer, not too
sweet. We also use a trifle more ice in the glass than the Raffies tech-
nique. One lump melts too quickly where we live among the coconut
palms!

THE SAHARA GLOWING HEART COCKTAIL, from the
HANDS of one ABDULLAH an ARAB MusLIM WIZARD back of MAHOGANY
at the MENA HousE BAR, near the PYRAMIDS of GHIZEH, which ARE
JusT Soura of CAmo, EGYPT
  Watch this one when out under the moon i~ a desert overnight
camp, riding camels out across the vast dunes, or strolling in the
moonlight around the Sphinx with some congenial -young woman
companion. Full many a mere man has gone and committed him-
self for life under that desert moon afteF a brace of Glowing Hearts,
as we have seen with these failing and rheumy eyes. The effect on us
was that, along with another American ne'er-do-well, we untethered
               THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

all the camels while the Arab boys haggled over some eternal native
unimportance, tied them in a line, and mounted most insecurely on
a pair of dromedaries of antique perfume, doubtful morals, and the
manners of a horned toad, we led them to the Sphinx and tethered
them to the claim-stakes of some random excavating party then in
operation during daylight hours, between the Sphinx's feet. It didn't
make sense then, and it doesn't now, but the row those Arabs and
dragomen tossed up when they found the whole mess of camels van-
ished was something to take down on a sound track.
   Take of dry gin, l pony, absinthe, l pony, dry imported apricot
brandy, l pony; donate Yi pony of bright rose coloured grenadine.
Shake with lots and lots of ice and strain into q large saucer cham-
pagne glass, and pray Allah for forgiveness of all imminent and fu-
ture sins of the flesh.

THE GRANDE BRETAGNE COCKTAIL No. I, BEING to OuR
UNGOVERNED MIND ONE of the FrvE or Srx CHIEF CocKTAILS of the
WHOLE w IDE WoRLD
   One dank, chilly, and snow-carpeted day in January of 1931 we
wore 'out shoe leather, shins, and temper in the name of "history" and
"art," hiking all over the Acropolis in Athens; skidding from the
Temple of Diana, around the Parthenon, and back down past the
Erectheum and its divine caryatids, and to our motor car and to
Athens proper. Here we met Eddie Hastings, now cruise director for
the M.S. BREMEN with Raymond-Whitcomb, and he told me about
the little Greek barkeep in his tiny bar and his miraculous inventions.
. . . This Grecian male had been abarring for over 40 years, man and
boy. During that time he had devoted Yi hr daily to the pardonable
indoor pastime of testing new and radical mixes all his own. The
Grande Bretagne Nos. I and II, were the final result-the pinnacle.
Using lime juice we found later is far better than lemon, although
lemon is plenty good enough. Use dry imported apricot brandy, never
the sweet syrupy American copy. . . . No. I: l jigger of the best dry
gin possible, Yi pony apricot brandy, Yi pony or so of strained lime or
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

lemon juice, l tsp of very fresh egg white, l dash of orange bitters.
Shake with lots of ice and turn into a chilled Manhattan glass. . . .
No. II: substitute kirschwasser for apricot brandy, omit orange bit-
ters-using l dash of peach bitters if available, or l tsp Cordial M edoc.
  The domestic Bridge Table cocktail, the 3-to-One, both copy this
Grande Bretagne, but the apricot brandy content is too heavy, and no
mention is ever made that unless fine dry apricot brandy is used, the
result is sweet, abortive, disillusioning in the extreme. . . . It is amaz-
ing, though, how such a small amount of apricot or kirsch comes
zipping through to lend bouquet to this brisk drink.


THE BARRANQUILLA GREEN JADE, from a STAY in CoLOMBIA
in the YEAR 1933, and again in 1934
   This amazing jumping-off town for emeralds, oil and gold in
Colombian hinterlands, has already been described; how the ancient
Spanish town rubs elbows with the most modern American practice.
We have fond recollections of one charming hos~ess in Barranquilla
who served us whole shrimps boiled in deep olive oil, bits of popcorn
tossed in garlic butter, little fritters of plantano, and many strange
tropical, chilled, fruits-mangoes, carissas, mangosteens, Surinam
cherries, rose apples, mawmees, heaven only knows what else with
long Latin names! . . . The Green Jade is a crisp thing, too, fine for
hot weather like the Grande Bretagne, the Gimlet . . . . l jigger of
 dry gin, Yz jigger of green creme de menthe, Yz jigger cream and l
 tsp or so of egg white. Shake with ice, strain into a saucer champagne
 glass, and garnish with l green cherry and a sprig of fresh mint.
 Serve with a green straw affixed with same techniq6e as in the Cuer-
 navaca Special already listed.


THE HALLELUJAH COCKTAIL, a PALATE-TWISTER from the
lsTHMUS of PANAMA
   This was originated by our good friend Max Bilgray, of Colon,
Panama, somewhere around 1929, and dedicated to Aimee Semple
               THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

McPherson as a result of an alleged visit to his Bilgray's Tropic Bar and
Cabaret, long a gay spot on the Isthmus. Now whether Aimee ever went
to Bilgray's under the alias of Betty Adams; and if she went there,
whether or not she found anything she wanted, are matters beyond
our deductive powers. All we know is that we arrived one night just
after this alleged inspection, and that Bilgray was mailing out post-
cards, postage gratis-as many as we wanted-listing the Hallelujah
ingredients. . . . Of course many thousands went out, and a million
dollar lawsuit was instituted, and Aimee's mother forgot her squabble
with daughter, and rallied to her defense. Even remote, pure and
austere sheets like the New York Times had special cables, and we
thought the whole business hugely amusing-and s?"angely enough,
the drink is good. Quote:

Babylonian Grape Brandy (Cognac) ................... · · · · I pony
Ice from the Crest of Mount Sinai ... . ......... ·Lots, fin y cracked
Lemon from the Desert of Sin ................. Lime juice, 4 drops
Gomorrah and Sodom vermouth .................. Italian, r jigger
Rum aged in Noah's Ark .................. Yz jigger; rye also used
Add Caip's syrup from the Garden of Eden . ...... Yz tsp Grenadine
You then give it the Hebrew shake and-pop a cherry on top
Say Hallelujah after drinking!

   Not that it makes any great difference, but the initial letters of each
line spell Bilgray's. Any drink known probably to a hundred thou-
sand people in the last eight or nine years in Panama alone must have
had something besides postcard appeal. . . . It should be served in a
large saucer type champagne glass.


THE HONEYMOON COCKTAIL, or LUNE de MIEL, Om of
MANY STRANGE MEMORIES from a PLACE in PARIS KNOWN as CHEZ
MA BELLE SOEUR, under CIRCUMSTANCES not RELEVANT to MEN-
TION, CIRCA 1926
  If the place still exists it can be found, if not we can assure those
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

 adventurous enough to be curious that the French Sttrete closed its
doors upon those precious things of the long evening gowns, the slave
bracelets about wrist and ankle; the pendant earrings; rouge, jeweled
slipper and tiny fans .... It is a strange drink, and for all we know it
may have its purposes and its moments. Take a sherry glass and build
up as follows: creme de cacao, parfait amour, the yolk of l egg care-
fully unbroken, and finally kiimmel dare-all chilled beforehand. Use
about I poo.y each of the liqueurs, or slightly less.


THE MANILA "HOOP PUNCH," another MASTERPIECE from the
HANDS of "MoNK" ANTRIM'S No. I CHINO, FmsT DISCOVERED in 1931
  Take 1 pony each of cognac and orange Cura~ao, add 2 ponies of
port wine, donate 1 tsp of lemon or lime juice. Fill a goblet with finely
cracked ice, turn in the mix, stir and serve with short straws-gar-
nished to suit taste . . . . This can also be made not quite so sweet by
changing the strained lime juice up to Yz pony and cutting down the
Cura~ao to Yi pony.



AND NOW SEVENTEEN or so "HoT HELPERS" CALCULATED to
KEEP CHILL SWAMP MisTs at BAY, BANISH the MEGRIMS & WARM
Bony, HEART & SouL into a FINE & AMIABLE DISPOSITION
  Of all the retinue of drinks listed in this volume, it is certain that
Hot Helpers really will be of most grateful use to readers. For when
a man is wet and chilled through, blue with cold and long exposure
in such voluntary tortures as November duck blinds, the wheel of an
ocean-going sailing craft in a winter chance, or in anr chilly and de-
pleted situation, a Hot Helper will in 5 short minutes recall him from
being a sorry and useless thing into restoration as a warm-hearted
homebody, kind to dogs, children, wives and even landlords-as we
can surely attest! Out of the endless blends in glass and silver bowl
we have listed these as the best and unusual from all over the civilized
world.


                                 . 50.
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

FIRST MARCH FOUR BASED upon a MATTER of ALES

AULD MAN'S MILK, a REvIVIFIER from the HEATHER BoUND
SLOPES of BoNNrn ScoTLAND; and FETCHED BACK to these SHORES after
RESIDENCE in the BRITISH IsLES in 1932
   Take a bottle of Scotch ale, heat it gently in a saucepan and while
it is gaining temperature dust with y,) tsp of powdered cinnamon, the
same of nutmeg and ginger. Take the yolks of 2 fresh eggs, add l scant
tsp of brown sugar; then beat them well. When ale is hot but not
quite boiling, pour this egg-sugar mixture slowly in-stirring dili-
gently. When thoroughly blended, turn in l to 2 jiggers of good
Scotch whisky. A fine stout and nourishing drink, this.

YE OLDE GOSSIPE'S BOWLE, BASED on MUI.LED ALE, and DATED,
ENGLAND, 1622
  We, as a matter of principle, despise all titles with "Ye" in it-Ye
Little Giftee Shoppee, and such ilk, but when we ran on the near-
Elizabethan dating of this receipt we forgave all, for it is a grand title
and one of England's oldest drinks-sometimes called Lamb's Wool.

Strong ale, two 12 oz bottles, l        Brown sugar, to taste
    qt; Bass preferred                  Roasted crab, or other small,
Good white wine, l pint                    apples; sugared and spiced
N utrneg, 1 tsp

  Mix ale and wine, add sugar and spice, heat slowly. When piping
hot add the roasted apples, serving in wide mugs if you have 'em. Not
too much sugar on the apples, please. Crabs are best.

LORD RUTHVEN'S "GOSSIP'S CUP," or TEWAHDIDDLE, a
CHARMING Mix of ALE, BRANDY, SPICES & SUGAR, & DATED LoNDoN,
1654
  We imagine that this is an older drink even than the Olde Gossipe's
Bowle, given above. And of Tewahdiddle-what a name, what a
name!-the immortal Dr. Kitchiner says:

                                   • 51 .
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

  "Before our Readers make any remarks on this Composition, we
beg of them to taste it: if the materials are good and their Palate
vibrates in unison with our own, they will find it one of the pleasant-
est beverages they ever put to their lips. . . . "
  Lord Ruthven says in his volume Experiments in Cookery, Lon-
don, 1654:
  "This is a right Gossip's Cup that far exceeds all the Ale that Mother
Bunch made in her lifetime."

Ale, one 12 oz bottle or pint             Lemon peel, l curl, yellow part
Brandy, l tbsp or a trifle more              only
Brown sugar, l tsp                        Ginger, l pinch
                                          Nutmeg, sprinkling
   Mix all these and heat on the fire, but do not boil. . . . This drink
is a warmer of the heart, and would be a neat one to produce some
cold fall or winter's afternoon or evening, before a snapping wood
fire.


NOW, finally, DR. WILLIAM K1TCHINER's "YARD of FLANNEL," which
Is SOMETIMES CALLED an "Arn FLIP," CIRCA 1817
   This is another hot helper based on ale, and calculated to cheer up
any long winter evening while the wind whistles about the eaves.

Ale, l qt; or 2Yz to 3 12 oz bottles           Nutmeg, 2/3 tsp
Eggs, 3 beaten                                 Good cognac, or rum, Yz cup
Brown sugar, Yi cup                            Lemon, yellow peel, Yi
Ginger, 1/3 tsp

    Take the yellow peel of Yz lemon, put into the ale and bring to heat;
 meanwhile beating up eggs with spices, sugar and rum. When the ale
 steams-but still isn't boiling-pour into a pitcher; then turn the egg-
 s'pice blend into another. Now pour back and forth briskly until
 everything is creamy and smooth.


                                       . 52.
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

  WORDS to the LIQUID WISE No. VIII, on the SPECIES of
  ALE for MULLING
    In all receipts calling for heated, mulled, or otherwise spiced ale,
  again we recommend English Bass, or any English Musty Ale, most
  heartily in preference to our present list of domestic products, and in
  spite of the cost made necessary by our ridiculously high tariff duties
  on products which we never have made here, and probably couldn't
  make as well if we did try.

ONE, now, BASED on APPLEJACK-which Is AMERICA'S TERM
for APPLE BRANDY, & CALLED the JERSEY LIGHTHOUSE
    It is rather unfortunate that our prohibition era through its raw
applejack and Jersey Lightning, managed comple~ely to deflect Ameri-
can taste against this fine spirit. Decently aged-in-wood applejack is a
fine thing, just as French Calvados-a super.fine apple brandy from
Normandy and the orchards of Ausse and Bessin-is a lovely stuff, as
fine in its way as any cognac, especially the.brand marketed in the
fl.ask bearing an apple, on a leafy branch in bas relie£
    We met the Jersey Lighthouse sitting in the back room of a small
New Jersey inn one horrid winter night, with William Faulkner,
Tony Sarg's puppet maker Bil Baird, and Eric-Midget Magellans
and Blow the Man Down-Devine, our sailing mate on MARMION .
 . . . Into a tumbler place 2 lumps of sugar, a dash or 2 of Angostura.•
3 or 4 cloves, a spiral of lemon peel. Onto this pour 2 jiggers of ancient
applejack, fill with boiling water, float on I tbsp applejack at the last
and serve blazing merrily. Those of us who read Bill Faulkner's Light
in August renamed the drink Light in February.

A HOT HELPER FOUNDED upon BEER from DENMARK &
CALLED the CoPENHAGEN-PRoNOUNCED as NEAR as WE CAN Do IT
"KERN-HABEN"-BEER TODDY                                                  '
  It is a fine one to use after winter sports, in an Alpine ski-camp, any-
where like that. Take I average bottle of good Danish or Bavarian
dark beer, beat I to 2 egg yolks well with I tbsp of brown sugar; and
after heating beer in a saucepan put beaten eggs into the mug, turn

                                  . 53 .
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

in the hot beer, stirring diligently the while. A dusting of nutmeg is
optional.


FOUR HOT ONES BASED on BRANDY, or BRANDY-RUM BLEND-
INGs, the FmsT of which Is the APRICOT, or PEACH, FLAMBE
  This is a delicious and totally different touch from all the others,
from the usual hot drink. Take 3 dried apricots or 2 dried peaches-
plumped in hot water beforehand; put in a silver cup and add 2 tsp
of brown sugar. Pour Yz jigger of cognac, heated, onto this foundation
and set alight, blowing out when sugar starts to melt well. Now turn
in I jigger or so of cognac, stir well, and add very hot water to taste.
A pinch of powdered clove, or 3 or 4 whole cloves, form optional
touches.


THE SO-CALLED "ENGLISH BISHOP"-CoNsIDERED by the
AUTHOR to be ONE of the MosT ATTRACTIVE HoT CuPs ever INVENTED
for the Arn & CoMFORT of CIVILIZED MAN, DISCOVERED in the SUMMER
of 1932 in BoxMooR, HERTFORDSHIRE
   Take an orange, stud it thickly all over with whole cloves, dip it in
cognac and dust with brown sugar. Now brown well until sugar
caramels, either spitted upon a skewer or stick before the fire or un-
der the broiler. Cut it into quarters; now take a saucepan or other
vessel, turn in 1 qt of red port wine, simmer tightly covered for 20
 minutes, add 2 jiggers of cognac just before pouring. Can be served
 fiambe with a little brandy floated on top.


 CAFE DIABLE, which Is neither ALToGETHE~ BRANDY nor ALTO-
 GETHER COFFEE, nor MERELY A HoT DRINK-but a MELLOWED & DRA-
 MATIC INSTITUTION from the CREOLE DELTA CAPITAL of NEw ORLEANS
   This is always an impressive bit of business when dining with a
 Handsome young lady, chez nous and a deux. Be sure to turn out all
 the lights before trying it, however, or the effect will be spoiled. The
 successful brewing of a Cafe Diable somehow instills a bit of admira-

                                  . 54.
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

tion for the imminent male in the stoniest feminine breast. It causes
her to think that here in truth is a monstrous clever fellow, a man
above other men. Don't disillusion her. ... For this routine have two
cups and a fire extinguisher handy.
         Really strong black coffee, 2 cups
         Brandy, (Elaborate but worth it!) rYz cups or so
         Peel of orange and lemon, both pared off very thin
         Sugar, 8 lumps (Some use four to six)
         Whole cloves, 4; or more, to taste
   First warm your silver bowl-for china may crack. Put in peel, spice,
and pour in brandy. Light candle and cut lights .. Heat ladle by hold-
ing beside candle flame-not over it because of soot. Dip up a couple
tablespoons of brandy, and put in two of sugar. Set alight and lower
ladle into bowl-being sure that neither your Perfect One nor your
own eyebrows are too close when it puffs into a blaze. . . . Now dip
up a ladle full and let it fall back, then after the proper applause start
putting in coffee gradually, ladling busily all the time. Finally the
flame will flicker and die, and before our audience's interest flickers
and ~ies, ladle into demitasse cups.

The SHANGHAI COSSACK PUNCH, CoME upon at a MosT VUL-
NERABLE & RoMANTic MoMENT, which SHALL NEVER BE FORGOTTEN;
and a FABRICATION which WE HAVE always HELD to BE the FINEST
HoT DRINK ExTANT
  Those of us who knew Shanghai before the red Russians were
chased out and the white Russians were dissipated and scattered to the
four corners of the globe, remember what we remember. We recall
one drizzly afternoon after the races, a house in the French Concession
whose host again it is not necessary to mention, and among other in-
teresting selvages of that afternoon-the following, fetched by him
from Siberia during those incredible days when Kolchak's army was
dispersed. . . . This day it was served hot, in tall Russian coffee
glasses.

                                  . 55 .
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

Good brandy, 1 pint                     Dark rum, Yz pint
Curas:ao, yellow, Yz pint               Lemon, strained juice, 4
Lemon peel, yellow part, 2              Orgeat syrup, 1 Yi tsp
Hot tea, 1 quart                        Orange flower water
  This was simmered up once over a spirit lamp, and poured off
steaming to each guest, who sweetened to taste-most adding a dash
or two _o f orange flower water.


HOT HELPERS BASED upon BURGUNDY or CLARET or PoRT WINES

THE ENGLISH BISHOP IS FIRST, & MENTIONED under BRANDY
DRINKS just above this JuNCTURE & in the SAME CATEGORY, PAGE 54

NOW WE COME UPON a MATTER of MuLLED CLARET & PoRT,
together with CoGNAC, SPICES, PEELS & other MATTERS; from a RECEIPT
in the TIME .of Goon QuEEN BEss, CIRCA 1578
  Mix 3 cups of claret and 1 of red port; add Yz cup of cognac, the
spiral yellow peel of a lemon, and 2 good pinches each of cinnamon
and nutmeg. Toss in Yi doz whole cloves, cover well and heat hot-
but do not boil. Take off immediately it is hot enough to suit taste
and not a moment longer, an' it please you! Boiling ruins port in-
stanter, evaporates all alcohol and leaves a bitter lees calculated to
spoil the best ingredients.


MULLED CLARET, ala GULMARG, from the SHOOTING LoG of
a BRITISH CoLONIAL CAVALRY OFFICER upon the OccAsION of a SHOOT
of CH/KOR or MouNTAIN GROUSE, & WILD bucK-the FrnsT in the
Fm CLAD SHEER SLOPES and VALLEYS around GuLMARG, & the LAST
on WULAR LAKE, which Is in the FABULOUSLY LoVELY VALE of the
KASHMIR some TWENTY MILES to the NoRTHEAST
  This must have been something in a_Kashmiri mountain hut in late
September, nearly 2 miles above the sea, with the perfume of Yz doz
plump grouse sizzling before the coals on a rock slab hearth, the air
                                . 56.
               THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

outside clear as wine, and the summit of the nearer Himalayas walk-
ing up to the white, deathly still, roof of the world-where only the
wind and the snow and the cold could dwell. . . . Then in 3 days
back to the heat and confusion of teeming Bengal, to Calcutta 2d
largest city in the British Raj after London itself; to orchids, and jas-
mines and Paris frocks and intrigue.
   It requires 2 bottles of still red Burgundy, 2 limes or I lemon, cut
into thin slices and seeded, Yz banana cut into slices. Tie the fruit to-
gether with 2 sticks of cinnamon, 1 doz whole cloves and 6 allspice,
in a bit of cheesecloth. Put along with the wine into a covered pot,
simmering for not over IO minutes. Discard cheesecloth bag and con-
tents, turn in 1 cup of dark rum, Yz cup of brpwn sugar to taste, and
I cup of club soda or seltzer. Stir and serve foaming, garnished with

curl of lemon peel.

THE TIMKE LOCOMOTIVE from FAR AWAYLUZON, which
Is a SMOOTH, DELICATE, GENTLE, HoT REVIVER, D1scREET ENOUGH for
the TENDEREST MArn, the MosT CAREFUL SPINSTER
   Monk Antrim leans over our shoulder again, for he it was who told
us about this drink. Also as we have explained elsewhere Baguio, the
Philippine hill station, is cool o' nights even though it is right smack
in the hottest tropical belt. The formula noted on the back of a
Baguio Country Club score card, with a gross not creditable to men-
tion, reads as follows: take a small saucepan or chafing dish, and be-
fore putting to fire turn in I Yz wine glasses of good Burgundy or
claret, Yz pony of orange Curapo, and 1 pony of honey mixed with
1 Yz tsp of sugar. Stir well until honey is entirely dissolved, stir in 1
lightly beaten egg, then put over the Bame. . . . When it first simmers
up pour into a mug or silver julep glass, and with another in the oppo-
site hand pour briskly from one to the other for a final mix. Add 1
thin slice of green lime or lemon, dust with a little cinnamon and
that's it. A most unusual blend of flavours; all delicate, and affording
total distinctly low in alcoholic strength. A beautiful drink for any
invalid or convalescent wearied of usual routine liquids .

                                 . 57.
                                               •


            THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

AND NOW, FINALLY MARCH CERTAIN HoT Arns Fou NDED on
RUMS

THE JAMAICA BLACK STRIPE, BEING SERVED as OFTEN HoT
as CoLD, MAY BE FouNDby TURNINGto PAGE I8

NEXT MARCHES the BAKER "HORSE COLLAR," ORIGINATED
by the AUTHOR, A.D. 1935, upon RUNNING into STONINGTON, RHODE
IsLAND, ahead of a HoWLING NoR'EASTER when HEADING SouTH from
LAWLEY's YARD to FLORIDA in MARMION
   This hotter toddy was invented by these sere and palsied hands,
quite through luck and by accident. Our 56 foot ketch MARMION
having just been discharged with a new and costly main trys'l re-rig
from Lawley's Yard, the split-sprit necessary to spreading that fancy
triangular bit of canvas became known as the "Horse Collar." On the
run from Cape Cod to New York, we stuck our noses into a snoring
nor'easter, which added up so quickly that we dropped the hook at
Stonington, Rhode Island, rather than be shaken up any more than
necessary. It was nearly November and cold as hades. Well that night
all hands screamed for hot rum, and we found no lemons in the laza-
rette-and to many otherwise cultured folk a hot rum without a dash
of lemon is like the Democratic Party without the ghost of Jefferson,
Tom without Jerry, a Cuban without his mistress. But we had
oranges!-and thereby hangs a tale. For suddenly we thought of
orange peel-and orange peel roasted with wild duck and how su-
 perbly fragrant it can become. Scarcely daring to hope for anything
 virtuous coming out of the effort we proceeded as follows.

  Tin cups for mariners, silver julep cups for fancies
  Carta de Oro Bacardi, Jamaica, Barbados, or Haitian rum, 2 jiggers
  Orange peel, I to each cup, cut in unbroken spiral
  Brown sugar, 1 tsp per cup
  Whole cloves, 6; or powdered clove, ~ tsp per cup
  Boiling water, enough to fill
  Butter, Yi tsp, optional

                               . 58.
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

  Line cups with spirals of orange peel, first dipping them in rum to
moisten. Dust sugar on peel, then cloves the same. Put a jigger of rum
in each cup, put cups on hot stove, and after a moment set aflame. Let
burn until edges of peel start to brown and sugar to caramel. Blow
out. Take off stove, add other jigger of rum, fill up with hot water,
give a brief stir and serve-either with or without a lump of butter
on top the size of a hazelnut. . . . This sounds complicated, but the
whole thing takes only a couple of minutes. Cups and rum must be
heated or when set alight the moisture in the peel will come out and
smother the flame . . . . The Horse Collar thus has four delicious
aromatic scents and savours: first the rum itself, then the nut-like per-
fume of burned oil of orange, then the bro}'l'n sugar, slightly cara-
meled by the flame, then the toasted spice.

THE OXFORD UNIVERSITY HOT RUM PUNCH, a CLAss1c
that Is SIMPLE & SooTHING & SATISFACTORY, and DATING back into the
DrM, DISTANT PAsT
   Take 1 Yz bottles of Barbados, or lighter Jamaica, or 1 bottle of
Demerara 160 proof; add 1 bottle of cognac, 3 quarts of boiling water,
2 cups of lemon juice. Add brown sugar, to taste, and a handful of
whole cloves. Put a spiral of yellow lemon peel in each cup, and there
it is. Most excellent for anyone coming down with anything, due to
the lemon juice.

  EXPLODED OLD ALEWIVES' TALE No. I, BEING a WARN-
  ING against OVER-INTRODUCTION of CITRIC JUICES into
  HOT ALCOHOLIC DRINKS
     No matter what dear old Aunt Fl~rina-May Fittich may grumble
  about how she used to cure Grand pops c~ld with hot lemon juice and
  spirits, let's lend at least Yz an ear to certam master rum drinkers who
  claim-probably with justice-that alcohol and sugar and lemon
  juice, under heat, work toward an acid condition of the gastric ma-
  chinery most conducive to spleen and vapours. It is just a thought
  anyway, and we really don't expect anyone to heed the warning
  after all.

                                  . 59.
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

HAROLD PETER'S HOT BUTTERED RUM
   Anyone who has sailed with Pete-whether around the world on
PILGRIM, to EUROPE on the schooner LLOYD BERRY, or south
to Florida from Cape Cod on some ship like our own MARMION, as
we did, remembers his magnificent tattooed m asterpieces, haunch,
paunch, back and chest, and his Hot Buttered Rums at the end of a
cold, wet, Fall chance. Our first introduction to them was running
from Woods Hole to New York, one late October day, with the wind
whipping up a dry nor'easter, and our new main trys'l pushing us
along close to nine knots.
   Into each average sized glass put a teaspoon of brown sugar, a twist
of lemon peel, a teaspoon lemon juice, four to six whole cloves, and
a spoon. Take a "futt" dish and heat water on the galley stove-and
in case we don't remember Pete's definition of that time-honoured bit
of New England addenda, a futt dish is the fl.at tin handleless sort of
pan we see on top of bullet heating stoves down east, to keep the air
humid. Actually any pot does as well.
   To each glass donate two ponies of Barbado~, or any stout rum-
two full ounces-add boiling water to taste, stir, and with the spoon
which has kept the glass from cracking, slide in one teaspoon of butter
on top. Drink as butter becomes wholly melted . . . . When getting
 really fancy for Harbour Furl Company, Pete may fl.oat a spoon of
 rum on top, and set aflame, but not for anyone less than a full Com-
 modore!

  WORDS to the LIQUID WISE No. IX, on the EXCELLENCE
  of ALLSPICE in HOT RUM DRINKS
    '.f
      o vary the usual clove and nutmeg add half ,a teaspoon of all-
  spice to the next hot toddy. The result is quite aromatically happy.

RETURNING to our RETINUE of COLD DRINKS again WE
PRESENT the JAMAICA BucK, BEING a SHANGHAI BucK-already Nonn
___:.only UsING JAMAICA, or other DARK R,uM instead of BACARDI, &
ADDING HALF a LIME for FLAvouR
     We found this years ago in Kingston, on a jaunt through the West

                                 . 60 .
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

Indies, during our editorial days with Doubleday, Doran & Company
magazines. T ake rYz jiggers dark rum, turn into a collins glass with
large lumps of ice, squeeze Yz lime in and add the crushed lime itself;
now comes r tsp sugar, and fill up with ginger ale of some decent sort,
or better still with stone bottle ginger beer. It is a satisfying cooler. By
using Yz dark rum and Yz Carta de Oro Bacardi the drink will suit
feminine Jam aicaphobes.

NOW, GENTLEMEN, at LONG L AST ARE EIGHT or so MINT JuLEP
CEREMONIES-BEING V AR1ous ADAPTATIONS of this PEERLESS A:MERI-
CAN CoNCEPTION from ALL PARTS of the WoRLD where IT Is PROPERLY
REVERED                                                  .
   Right from the meaning of the word Juleps have been a spill-and-
pelt of contradiction and disagreement. . . . The very name itself
never was midwifed on any honeysuckle-bowered southern balcony,
but comes from the Persian gulab, or Arab julab: meaning Lrose water .
. . . No sane Kentucky planter, in full possession of his faculties will
yield an inch to any Marylander when it comes to admitting rye is
superior to bourbon in a Julep, when actually, a Julep is international
and has been international for years-just as the matters of radio and
flying are international. It is a drink composed of whisky or brandy
-and, of lat~rum; sweetened, iced, and flavoured with aromatic
leaves of the mentha family.
   So before the shooting starts let's explain right here and now that
there's no more chance of getting the various Julep schools to agree on
fabrication of this most delectable of drinks, than we have of getting
a proud Atlanta great-grandmother to concede General Sherman a
nice, gentle, well-meaning, big boy.
   First of all there is the silver cup versus the glass school; the chilled
glass versus room-temperature school; the slightly bruised mint versus
the all-bruised school; the rye versus the bourbon school· the fruit
garnish versus the plain school.                                 '
   Feuds have begun because someone breathed the possibility that
city water would make a Julep as well as water dipped from a fern-
                                   , 6r .
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

 draped Blue Grass Country spring. Men have been shot at for heap-
 ing fruit juices, slices of citrus, and maraschino cherries on a Julep
completed. Families have faced divorcement about the slight-appear-
ing concern of red-stemmed mint.                                    •
   A gentleman who discards the slightly bruised mint from his drink
views another who permits the bruised leaves to remain in glass as one
who did not have quite the proper forbearance on the distaff side. . . .
And so tell they the tale-
   Getting right down to cases, there is no more need for argument of
violent nature along such lines than there is that a flashing-eyed Span-
ish girl is any less useful in life than a lovely honey-haired Scandi-
navian, than a titian English maid, or a jet-haired and urgent daughter
of the Killarney Country.
   On this matter of Juleps we can boast to a thorough Julep research,
without pride or prejudice, for we have put in some years of mighty
clinical home-work on the matter!
   We've sipped Juleps on a shaded upper gallery brewed by a genuine
Colonel, from Versailles, Kentucky. We've tried Juleps in Charleston,
Cape Cod, Toronto, Kelly's in Panama City, and the Royal Hawaiian
in Honolulu; we've sipped other Juleps in Nassau, Cumberland
Island, Georgia, Seattle, Los Angeles, and that little Overseas Club-
or whatever the right name is-that sits up on stilts by the pier-end in
Zamboanga; we've tried-of all places-a Julep in Sandakan, British
North Borneo.... We've buried this inquisitive proboscis in green,
spicy-cool mint foliage under king coconut trees, looking out over the
coffee and cacao plantations of central Guatemala, in shadow of the
Shwe Dagon Pagoda in Rangoon, Burma, on the start of the road to
Mandalay-which last is hundreds of miles inland and aiJllountainous
table-land without flying fish, and China isn't across the bay either.
   ~ut the best Julep of all, up to date-an' Ah mean that Suhl-was
 mixed by Monk Antrim's Number One Chino boy at the Manila
Hotel, Luzon, P.I., and A.D. 1926.... Just good bourbon-yes, Manila
never was dried up by our experiment and much of the finest bour-
bon found its way out there-really tender, fresh, red-stemmed mint;
                                . 62.
                  THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

a big glass, plenty of fine ice, a little sugar, a teaspoon of Demerara
rum floated between the two ripe sticks of fresh ripe Pasig River val-
ley p.ineapple, in a big sloping-sided glass holding a full English pint
of sixteen ounces. And lots of mint, for it takes a real clutch of the
herb for fragrance.
   But let us inject a word of caution to seekers after this miracle of
frosted perfection. No man can rough and tumble his Julep-making
and expect that luck must always be on his side, that a lovely arctic
frosted thing shall always reward his careless ignorance.
   Especially on yachts or boats, for instance, no Julep glass can frost
when stood in any considerable wind. Frosting depends solely upon
condensed moisture being converted to minor ice through the ex-
cessive chill of melting cracked ice and liquids withll that glass.
Therefore if the breeze whisks it away there can be nothing left to
frost. Paradoxically, when the outside of any Julep glass is moist from
careless rinsing, handling, or standing about only partially iced in
humid weather, frost will be in total lack due to excess moisture.
   Likewise no Julep can ever frost when caressed by the warm, bare
palm of an impatient host or guest-not any more than decent frost-
ing can ever result from wet, half-melted cracked ice that is more
liquid than solid. Just obey the rules, few but important, and success
will crown every amateur effort.
   Actually if we would forget all the eternal nonsense about Juleps
and obey the few common sense rules, everyone could save their
strength for enjoyment of this institution.

I.   Chill glasses, whether silver cups or otherwise.
2. Use glasses of sixteen ounce capacity.

3. Use two and a half jiggers of likker for sixteen ounce glass, two for
   fourteen ounce.
4. Use red-stemmed mint, simply because red-stemmed mint is more
   pleasantly aromatic. Use fresh mint, and cut stems short just before put-
   ting in as final garnish-to make them bleed.
5. Don't bruise that first installment of tender mint leaves more than very
   slightly. The inner leaf juices are bitter and cannot have profitable
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

   flavour. Bruise one between the teeth, then really chew it up-to find
   out.
6. Don't expect to get a whacking good Julep out of six months old
   "bourbon" or "rye." We can't.
7. Don't use coarse ice, use finely cracked ice-very fine.
8. Don't over-garnish with sliced orange and random fruits. With Juleps,
   and in fact any drink of delicate quality in its own right, don't add any-
   thing with a different strong scent-and orange, lemon, and certain
   other fruits have a very potent aroma. . . . The aroma of a bourbon
   Julep should be bourbon and mint-not bourbon, mint, and a fruit
   store....
      Garnish simply, then, without trying to gild the lily. A Julep is more
   than a mere chilled liquid; it is a tradition which is to be respected. The
   mint itself is a delight to eye, just as we admire parsley against a fine red
   snapper, or permit feminine associates the use of red nail polish, or
   grace a mother's table with Bowers. So let the Julep feast the eye and
   nostril properly-not supply unending, edible diversions from the main
   theme. We don't need to eat all the trimmings, after all-but we always
   do! . . . That is why ripe pineapple is so beneficial-and eaten after
   the Julep is gone, the marinated fruit is delicious.

MONK ANTRIM'S MANILA HOTEL MINT JULEP No. I,
with BoURBoN or RYE
Sugar, Yz tbsp; water 2 tbsp              Fresh mint, I bunch
Fresh mint, tender sprigs, 6              Cherries, 4, scarlet
Ripe pineapple, 2 sticks or fingers       Demerara or Barbados rum, I or
Good old bourbon, 2Yz jiggers;                2 tsp, to smell
    or rye                                Finely crushed ice
  Ice glasses, and without wasting any time do the following: toss in
sugar, then water, then the 6 mint tips. M~ddle slightly, being sure
that the volatile oils are smeared all over inside of glass. Discard this
slightly bruised mint entirely.. .. Pack glass with ice, pour on bour-
b?n~and do not stir, letting wise nature take its course. · · . Then
distribute rum slowly in drops. Cut.mint stems off quite short up to
the leaves, and make glass look like a green bouquet, with two pine-
apple sticks peeping out on opposite sides, and the hot red of the
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOO K

cherries nestling in the mint. . . . Serve with two very short straws,
but let stand until thoroughly frosted before handling, and always
escort it with a small napkin, to handle the melting frost on outside of
glass.
  Omit the rum if a Marylander or Kentuckian is present.


MINT JULEP No. II, with BoURBoN or RYE
  This is another variation, and also good. . . . Simply proceed just
as in the Monk Antrim version, only leave the slightly bruised mint
in the glass. Half fill with ice, and add a few more sprigs of slightly
bruised mint. Fill with ice, and finish exactly as above, only omit the
touch of rum. . . . Handle bourbon and rye exactly alike.


MINT JULEP No. III
  This would be the same as No. II, only use the tenderest sprigs of
mint and don't bruise at all-leaving the herb to be its own delicate
prophet. . . . Having tried all ways we find this has least mint aroma
of all, and as mint saturating the whole affair is so gratifying to our
personal preference, No. III does not include when we are at work.

MINT JULEP No. IV, from SANTIAGO de CuBA, EMPLOYING, NATU-
RALLY, BACARDI
  This is not the usual Julep, and we don't want any sleep lost over
the idea. A Cuban gentleman of parts got it up, likes it still, gave us
four and we liked all of them. . . It isn't a Julep as we know it, but
after all who are we?
Carta de Oro Bacardi, 2Yz jiggers        Lime, juice, I fairly large
Pineapple juice, fresh if possible,      Grenadine, 2 tsp
    2 tbsp                               Fresh mint and bo-arnish
   Using a fourteen ounce tall glass or goblet, bruise six sprigs of tender
fresh mint very lightly, rubbing over inside glass. Pack full of very
finely crushed ice. Pour on lemon juice, pineapple juice then Bacardi,
            THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

and finally the grenadine. Do not stir.. . . Garnish with bunch of
fresh mint cut off close up to leaves just before putting in, and add
pineapple stick, slice orange, and what not, to taste. . . . Let frost
before serving.


LAMARR PEACH BRANDY MINT JULEP No. V
   Down Macon way there are more and better peaches than probably
any other spot on this testy globe of ours, and one family named La-
marr-of whom we know one of the daughters-seems to part own
three whole counties or something, and has probably gazed on larger
numbers of acres in peaches than any young lady of our acquaintance.
In fact she claimed to have an uncle who was written up in Fortune
because he developed a machine for taking the fuzz from peaches-a
fact the late Mr. Mack, of Moran & Mack, would have been pleased to
know. . . . It is therefore we give credit to a Southern lady who told
us about this Georgia jolliEer and all good men take note. 'Struth and
'tis no drink for weaklings!

Cognac, r'li jiggers                       Georgia peach brandy, r jigger
Bar sugar, r tsp                           Long thin slice ripe peach
r doz or so sprigs of fresh mint           Spring, or well, or rain, water

   Put sugar in large silver or glass Julep glass, and add just enough
water to make it an oily syrup. When smoothly dissolved break off a
couple of the tenderest mint sprigs, and muddle very, very slightly-
leaving them there in aromatic harmony. Take six other sprigs and
gently crush up and about, that no spot may be overlooked of that
glass's inside.                                       '
   Fill with very finely cracked ice, pack down slightly, and pour in
the blended brandies. Garnish with sprigs of mint, and on the straw
drinking side, insert a single stick of sliced ripe peach. . . . Do not
 stir.' That prime liquor will percolate through the ice to the very bot-
 tom without any trouble. Just sit by quietly and watch the whole
lovely process of frosting.... Then, and then only, drink!
                                   . 66.
               THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

PEACH THUNDERBOLT, BEING No. VI, a LoNG-HoARDED
JuLEP TREASURE from OLD-TIME GEORGIA
  This Thunderbolt business is no quip about the effect, but simply
the name of the place just south of Savannah, where we first stumbled
onto this nectar of the gods, this eye.filling, mild, pleasant debauch of
three senses.
Carta de Oro Bacardi, 3 jiggers-        Sun-ripe, fresh Georgia peach, r
    yes, we said 3!                     Lime, juice, Yi large; I average
Fresh mint, dozen sprigs                Sugar, I tsp
   Take a large goblet and pack it half full with finely shaved ice, put
in half the sugar, a trifle of water, and six tender mint heads. Muddle
gently for a moment, rubbing mint all over interior of goblet. The
flavour thus penetrates better. In the center put in a peeled and stoned
peach, cut in halves and stood on edges. Mix rum, lime and rest of
sugar. Pack glass full and pour in liquids.... Garnish well with the
remaining mint sprigs, and serve with two short straws so the nose can
browse in it. . . . Don't make the mistake of garnishing with a lot
of other fruit, or using cherries. It is the ripe peach which is picked up
by the rum. . . . We have, however, discovered that a teaspoon or two
of good peach brandy floated on before frosting, helps amplify the
basic flavour of the unit.

PENDENNIS CLUB MINT JULEP, BEING No. VII, & SEVERELY
UNGARNISHED
   Martin Cuneo has for many years manufactured his own concep-
tion of a proper mint Julep to members of Louisville's famous Pen-
dennis Club-mentioned elsewhere in this volume. There are several
minor variations in the gentle art of Juleping, and his is enough off
the usual track for inscription here-as he does not bruise mint, even
slightly.
   Take a sixteen ounce silver Julep cup, or the same in glass. Into the
bottom put a lump of sugar and dissolve it in a little spring or well
water. Choose the tenderest mint sprigs and toss in three-arranging
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

them in the bottom, and don't crush or bruise at all. Fill the chalice
with finely cracked ice.
  Turn in two jiggers of the best old bourbon the cellar can afford,
and stir once to settle. Add enough more ice to fill; a complete small
bundle of tender mint comes next, trimming the stalks fairly short,
so as to give out their aromatic juices into the Julep. Place in the ice,
and stand aside for a few minutes to frost and acquire general merit.

MANILA POLO CLUB BRANDY JULEP, L1sTED as JULEP No.
VIII, for .ALPHABETICAL not QUALITY REASONS
  Met out in the Philippines in 1926, in '31 and '32-and never for-
gotten.
Sugar, l tsp                           Mint, 1 doz sprigs
Cognac, 2Yz jiggers                    Any medium dark rum, 2 tbsp
Fresh fruit, du jour                   Powdered sugar, l tsp for garnish
Water, l pony
   Use sixteen ounce glasf: .... Dissolve sugar and water, and toss in
six tender sprigs of mint. Muddle lightly, pack glass with finely
shaved ice, stir once, then turn in the cognac. Decorate with two sticks
fresh ripe pineapple, cherries, a slice of ripe peach, or what not. Now
float on the Jamaica; dust with the final powdered sugar, and spot in
the other sprigs of mint, stems down. . . . Serve with two short
straws. Drink when well frosted. We first saw this Julep in a huge
tumbler with wide mouth and sloping sides, holding around 16
 ounces.

ADDITIONAL JULEPS, of RUM and 1BRANDY
  Since neither Scotch nor Irish tal<.e kindly to julepry, the variations
-when those same Marylanders and Kentuckians are absent-can be
any sort of rum, and any sort of brandy. . . . In the latter case re-
member that most fancy brandies like apricot, cherry and peach are
very sweet, so mix with cognac half and hal£ In the former, try and
avoid a moo/a Jamaica base, as this is a trifle heavy for the average
                                  . 68.




  - - - - --       --   -   - - -- -     -- - --   - -·
               THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

palate. Either dilute Jamaica with white rum like Bacardi, or some
medium rum like Barbados. Don't forget that Demerara can be as
high as 160 proof!

  WORDS to the LIQUID WISE No. X, on the ABBREVIATION
  of MINT JULEP STRAWS
    The final garnish of emerald mint is not merely to look at. If we
  must have, or prefer, straws-make them short straws. Just a couple
  of inches peeping out is correct. Thus the olfactory proboscis must be
  buried in the fragrant herbage, something not the case with the crude
  long affuirs through which certain folk drink ice cream sodas.

THE KINGSTON CRUSTA., BEING a PARALLEL THOUGHT to the
MARTINIQUE CRUSTA, on PAGE 74, only from JAMAICA
  Hardy Jamaican planters turn this same Martinique drink into
something vastly different by the startling addition of ~ tsp of Ja-
maica Ginger, or the equivalent of Hell-Fire Bitters, see Page 153·
. . . Still hardier Jamaicans even wind this business up further by
dusting some cayenne pepper on top.

KIRSCH au CAFE-or the FAMOUS BLACK & WHITE CocKTAIL
   This revivilier was found in the home of a Cairene resident before
going out on the Nile of a moonlight night, and on h~s dahabeah-a
luxurious and incredible sailing craft originated and maintained in
his case, for no good purpose. . . . Take kirschwasser and black very
strong coffee, l pony each. To this add Yz pony of good cognac, the
white of l small egg. Shake hard with cracked ice and serve in a tall
flute cocktail glass with a stem. Allah, il Allah!

THE KNICKERBOCKER "PUNCH," a MEMORY of the GooD
DAYs of 1915
  How many of us remember the Maxfield Parrish Old King Cole
when it formerly hung-not at the St. Regis at all-in the old Hotel
Knickerbocker bar on the southeast corner of Broadway at ,µd Street?
. . . It smiled benignly down upon all sorts and conditions of men,
                                                                           1
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

over a free lunch buffet too rich to be credible-and which saved
more than l hungry college boy in the days when the Dolly Sisters, the
Castles, Gaby des Lys, Bert Williams and Hazel Dawn were stars be-
hind the footlights, on the dance floor; when the late Pauline Fred-
erick was so starkly beautiful in Joseph and his Brethren; when deli-
ciously tiny Emma Trentini was imported by our round the world
cruising fellow-passenger Rudolph Friml to sing in his operettas;
when the old Rectors, Delmonico and Louis Martin weren't just
names out of the rosy past. In our college freshman-and financially
always debted-days we recall the good old Knickerbocker and the
snacks there; and here is one of their specials .... Into a goblet strain
the juice of Yz a lemon or l small lime, add Yz tsp of sugar, a fat jigger
of St. Croix or other medium dark rum, l pony of water and 2 dashes
of orange bitters. Ice with lots of finely cracked ice, stir to chill, deco-
rate with fresh fruit galore, then finally float on l pony of still red
Burgundy. A sprig of mint and short straws are in order also.

THE LALLA ROOKH COCKTAIL, a RECEIPT GIVEN Us on a
TRIP HoME from YoKoHAMA in 1931, by CLYMER BROOKE
   Clymer Brooke and 2 or 3 other Yale men set off from New London
to circle the globe in their 65 foot schooner CHANCE, and Brooke
liked it so well in Tahiti he jumped ship and got himself a vanilla
plantation on the loveliest island possible: Moorea, across the bay.
We met him the day out of Yoko, our ship first bound for Honolulu,
when he was headed back to Long Island to marry him a bride,
 and being "in vanilla" as we might say, through having a South Sea
 plantation of that orchid vine, the drink was typical. Peerless Theo-
 dore, mentioned so often in Volume I, had it specially mixed for us
 in the SS RESOLUTE Grill.
    Just why it was called Lalla Rookh is something neither Brooke
 n~r l~gi~. could explain. . . . Take 1 jigg~r of good cognac and mix
 with Yz J~gger of brown rum and Yz pony of vanilla extract. Now add
 l tbsp thick cream. Chill well in a shaker with cracked ice, strain into
 a flute cocktail glass. Vanilla may be cut down or added to, to taste.

                                   . 70.
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

Some people admire Yz tsp of sugar or gomme. It makes an insidious
drink that ladies prefer, often to their eventual risk, joy, and sorrow.

THE MANILA "LEAP FROG" COCKTAIL, another MEMORY
of the CRlsP DAYS & CooL NIGHTS up in BAGUIO, back in the fooRoTE
CouNTRY of LuzoN
   Take r pony of Bacardi, the same of dry apricot brandy, add the
strained juice of r small lime or ~ lemon, colour with r tsp of
grenadine. Shake with lots of cracked ice and strain into a saucer type
champagne glass . . . . After home fabrication of this fine drink we
have found very de.finitely that the original Manila formula may be
improved by using r Yz ponies of Bacardi and Yz pony of apricot,
everything else remaining the same. We must not forget that apricot
is an insistent and penetrating flavour. We only need a small amount
to point up a single cocktail-never r pony! Gold Seal Bacardi is best,
again; the white lacks flavour.

THE BACARDI "LEAVE IT to ME," from the BAR BooK of an
INFANTRY MAJOR STATIONED at FoRT WILLIAM McKINLEY, near
MANILA
  Fill the shaker Yz way with cracked ice, then put in I jigger of
Carta de Oro Bacardi, r tsp maraschino, the juice of I small green
lime, r tsp raspberry syrup. Turn into a saucer champagne glass with
3 or 4 small bits of ice, and hit with a spot of chilled club soda. A
pretty, flavourful and refreshing cocktail.

MONK ANTRIM'S LINTIK COCKTAIL, which REALLY lsN'T
any SPECIES of CocKTAIL at ALL, but a SonT of LIQUID TRIPLE THREAT
ORIGINATED for REASONS STRICTLY DISHONOURABLE, but ELECTRIFYING;
& in ADDITION a BRlEF SoRT of BIOGRAPHY of the GENTLEMAN HIMSELF
   We appear to refer to Monk fairly often in this volume, and there is
a reason besides his being a careful, almost clinical, student of potable
liquids. He happens to be one of the most interesting chaps who ever
hit the Islands. When we first knew him Monk lived vividly, to say
the least. He had a drink memo book, contents of which had been

                                 . 71 .
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

religiously donated by a series of gentlemen who, at the time of our
first trip to the Islands, were either in various sanatoria for alcoholic
treatment, had been invalided back to the states as incurable dipso-
maniacs, or were dead from probably spirituous causes.
   A few years back a chap named Walter E. Antrim showed up from
somewhere down in the South Seas, came to the Manila Hotel and
got him a job as dishwasher-so sing they, speak they, tell they, the
tale-it being Uncle Sam's largest and finest hostelry, and the pride
of the Philippines, naturally.
   So, as the old silent movies used to say, time passed, but didn't pass
Monk by. When we got there first in 1926, he greeted our Cruise Staff
at the end of a mile or so of new concrete pier, and we met him then
-the Manager of the Manila Hotel.
   Now Monk knew how to live life in his own way, and he lived it:
high, wide, and handsome, making friends as he went along. Monk
would roll you, flip you, cut cards with you, for anything from a steam
yacht to a thousand dollars gold and never turn a hair. . . . The last
we heard he had espoused himself to a handsome titian-haired crea-
ture, and vanished from Manila. Why or where?-we just don't
know. . . . Anyway we have Monk's letter before us dated March
4th, 1927, passing along several Manila liquids, and calling attention
especially to the Lintik Cocktail. Quote:
   "· .. the Lintik is the smoothest drink which I've run into lately. . . .
Lintik, as you may know, being Tagalog for 'Lightning' (Tagalog being
the language of a tribe of that name down in eastern Mindanao, the big
island below Manila).
   "The main drawback to this concoction is that it must be aged for two
;-reeks, then chilled in an ice bucket without ever coming in contact with
ice. · · · But the final result is well worth that little bother. . . · Will be
seeing you next trip out, and we'll test a few in my laboratory, with Wong
to do the mixing!"                              ,

Good dry gin, 3 bottles                   Lemons, juice 15; peel IO
Water,2Yz cups                            Angostura, 2 full tbsp
                               Sugar, lY4 lbs

                                    . 72.
               THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

  Strain lemon juice carefully through 2 cloths. Boil sugar and water
for 2 minutes, strain and cool. Add gin and bitters. Bottle, placing the
peel of 2 lemons in each bottle. Store in a cool spot, not too cold, to
age. Serve chilled and under no condition add any ice. This will make
around 4 to 5 bottles of Lintik Cocktails.

ALFRED BARTON'S SURF CLUB MANGAREVA COCKTAIL
   If there is an exotic spot on our whole Atlantic Seaboard it is the
Miami Beach Surf Club, and Alfred Barton is its guiding genius. His
gala nights, incredible affairs, make Hollywood fetes look like modest
Quaker meetings. He imports whole circuses, ferris wheels, elephants,
clowns and God alone knows what else if he wants a circus; a mid-
way, sideshows, appropriate murals. This Mangareva is Barton's chef
d'oeuvre, along with his staff brain trust, when recently seeking a
really unusual drink. Honey has long been a French admiration in
certain intimate drinks. Calvados-or Normandy apple brandy-and
honey would be best, but if not possible rn;e the corresponding apple-
jack and honey available in the open market.
   First the container: this being a coconut shell sawed off at the top
to a 2Yz" opening, and the kernel taken out. Clean up the outside
with sandpaper or steel wool. Mount this in a ring of fresh pineapple
and garnish with galax leaves, and serve with brightly coloured cello-
phane straws .... Now the mix: turn r part triple sec, 2 parts strained
lime or lemon juice, and 5 parts apple and honey into a bar glass. Mix
well and allow 3 oz to each coconut shell. Now fill with finely cracked
ice, stir once, close the opening with Pineapple Paradise, et voila!
Even the cleverest guests cannot guess its formula; furthermore it
speaks softly but packs a Big Stick.

  WORDS to the LIQUID WISE No. XI, on the EXCELLENCE &
  DIVERSION of PACKING a COCKTAIL GLASS with SHAVED
  ICE, ADDING HALF a TEASPOON of STRAINED LIME
  JUICE, then FILLING with OUR FAVOURITE LIQUEUR
    Just try this some day when the taste flags, when ideas run dry or
  bar shelf is bare of the usual high proof spirits. . . . Try it with
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

  Cointreau, Benedictine, Grand Marnier, Chartreuse, Cordial Medoc,
  Drambuie, Certosa, or any of the myriad French coloured liqueurs
  coined for devious Gallic purposes, but each notable for this or that
  fragrance or flavour. . . . Such drinks are lovely to look at, dry
  enough through the lime juice, and each one radically different from
  its neighbour!

THE MARTINIQUE CRUSTA., which WE FouND WAITING for
Us in FoRT de FRANCE on the OccASION of OuR FmsT TRIP through
the WEsT INDIES, in 1929
  This effective and eventful drink uses no man-made cup, but the
reversed skin of a small orange or lemon, first moistened inside and
on the lip with lemon juice or rum, then dipped in lots of fine white
sugar, until encrusted evenly on inner yellow side of the whole re-
versed skin.... Now stand this in any stemmed glass that will fit it.
  The other method is to peel off a small orange, or lemon, in a single
unbroken spiral. Take a small goblet, moisten inside with lemon juice
or rum, then line with the spiral peel, and the whole dipped in fine
sugar, leaving what clings, clinging.
  Now chill either type of container for a good hour in the refrigera-
tor, and into it strain the following, after shaking well with cracked
ice.

St. Croix or other Martinique rum,        Maraschino, 1 tsp, scant
     I Yi jiggers                         Angostura, 3 dashes
Lime, juice, I average size               Gomme syrup, 1 tsp, to taste
  Garnish with a stick of fresh pineapple, a slice of orange, or any-
thing that suits.
                                            ,
MI AMANTE, which MEANS "MY BELOVED" and WAS GIVEN to Us
by Two YOUNG GENTLEMEN from the ARGENTINE, '     from B. A., & W Ho
OWN Pow PONIES, RANCHES & THINGS
  Our young Argentine knows how to live life we can assure you,
and does. He is smart, modern, fiill of fun, often as not a superior
athlete. He knows American cocktails, and originates quite a few on
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

his own account. . . . We tried this during a recent local heat wave
with results entirely at odds with the first reaction to its written
formula.
  Take of the best gin possible, lYz jiggers, of coffee ice cream, l cup.
Put into a chilled shaker and shake well, or better still in The Mixer.
Some people add a few lumps of ice to hdp the chill-straining the
latter out in serving. Pour into large saucer type champagne glasses.
TWO ACCEPTED VERSIONS of the WoRLD FAMous ONE-&-
ONLY MILLION DoLLAR CocKTAIL, which Is EsPECIALLY FAMous
throughout JAPAN & the PHILIPPINE lsLANDS
MILLION DOLLAR COCKTAIL No.~' as MlxED by SHIDEAKI
SAITO, No. I BAR BoY at the IMPERIAL HoTEL, ToKYo, JAPAN, 1926,
1931 & 1932
   First fill shaker 2/3 full of cracked ice then put in lYz jiggers old
Tom gin, Yi pony of Italian vermouth,' 2 tsp pineapple syrup, l tsp
of grenadine for colour, 2 tsp strained lemon juice, 2 tsp of thick
cream and Yz the white of a fresh egg. Shake hard, strain into a big
opulent-looking saucer champagne glass, and that's that. . . . Ver-
mouth content is immediately varied by Saito to suit the palates of his
various Million Dollar clients in Tokyo-running from l pony down
to Yz pony. Some prefer French dry vermouth, but the standard blend
calls for Martini & Rossi.
MILLION DOLLAR COCKTAIL No. II, as MrXED by NoMuRA,
the No. I BAR BoY at ToR HoTEL, KoBE, DATING from 1926, to 1931 &
1932
   His formula was exactly the same as Saito's masterpiece except the
vermouth was stepped up to l pony: and the lemon juice to 1 tbsp,
strained of course; then l tsp grenadme.
THE MIYAKO HOTEL SPECIAL
  From Kyoto, Japan, during the Cherry Blossom Festival, April 20 th,
1932.
  Japan is heart-breakingly beautiful enough by itself, and Kyoto was

                                . 75 .




                                                                            _J
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

its ancient Capital. Being there for a third time was romantic enough
surely, but being there for the great festival was something else still-
especially with a fiancee by our side. . . . Well, we were all of these,
and our bland friend Mr. S. Suda, bar baron at the Miyako Hotel,
concocted this after considerable thought, and added his blessing on
our whole picture. . . . The results were benignly immediate.
Dry gin, 1 jigger                         Cointreau, I jigger
Fresh pineapple juice, I pony             Lemon or lime, juice, Yz pony
   Shake with finely cracked ice, and pour into a tall four ounce cock-
tail glass with stem. It is fairly sweet, so step up lemon a trifle and cut
down pineapple, if preferred.

SLOPPY JOE'S MO/ITO, which Is a BACARDI CoLLINs, PLus
   Cubans and snobbish Americanos can sneer all they please at
Sloppy Joe's, the fact still remains that there are as good, and better,
and more varied cocktails suitable to our somewhat exacting taste
than any other spot in Cuba. Granted that the Vedado Club, the Coun-
try Club, the N acional, La Florida-all have their known specialties,
still Sloppy Joe's assortment is not with them.
   This is a greatly improved rum collins, and is best made with Carta
de Oro Bacardi, or any good medium light Santa Cruz, Haiti, or
Barbados rum. If Jamaica is used, don't use it straight, mix with white
rum, one part to four of latter.
   Put several lumps of ice into a 16 oz collins glass, toss in r tsp sugar
or gomme, insinuate a spiral green lime peel about the ice, turn in 1Yz
 jiggers of Bacardi; white, or Gold Seal, and the strained juice of r
 small green lime-not a lemon. Stir once, fill with really good club
 soda and garnish with a bunch of fresh ~int. . . . If for a lady, use
 grenadine instead of sugar.

  WORDS to the LIQUID WISE No. XII, on the PRETTY SENSE
  of USING VARIOUS COLOURED FRUIT SYRUPS for SWEET-
  ENING ALL SORTS of COLLINS DRINKS
    Mix the usual Tom or John Collins, only instead of using sugar use

                                  . 76.
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

  raspberry, strawberry, mint, cherry, or other soda fountain syrups.
  They add a slight bouquet and taste, make a pretty looking drink.
  Vary by using stone bottle ginger beer for soda.

 THE MOOD INDIGO, BEING another ONE from another YEAR's
 CRUISING, FouND at GouLD's CASINO, in NICE, FRANCE, in 1932
   Once again we happened into the Palais de la Mediterranee, accom-
 panied by a young and fluent maiden, to look about, to risk our top
limit of 20 dollars-then-gold on roulette. That Gould's Palace really
is something-and to our mind a modernistic dream conceivable only
by a hybrid of Nero, Alice Foote MacDougall, and our friend Donald
Desky. As the French maitre d'hotel told us-quoting from the book
-"Tous les Galas de la Saison attirent-ils. une assistance d'elite dont
l'elegance et la chic eclipsent les plus eccalantantes societes mon-
daines."
   Be that as it may Gould's made tf.ie over-publicized and faintly
funereal Casino at Monte Carlo look like a shaoby country cousin-
they are reviving its sinking fortune with Keeno now, imagine itl-
and someone suggested a Mood Indigo, and we wondered if it were
a liquid compliment to Duke Ellington's music, and ordered 2-one
of which we introduced to the young maiden, who then introduced
herself to us. . . . Take 1 jigger of dry gin, Yz pony of cognac and
anywhere from Yz to 1 pony of creme de violette, or parfeit amour.
Adding 1 tsp of egg white is optional, and usual. Shake viciously with
lots of cracked ice, serve promptly, and drink vis-a-vis. "Et quel dom-
mage, M'sieu et Ma'mselle?" . . . A violet blossom is the prettiest
garnish.

EL MOROCCO, which Is a CocKTAIL from NoRTH AFRICA, not
any PRODUCT of NEW YoRK RESTAURANTS of SIMILAR NAME
   This is from the field notebook of a trusted friend on a Mediter-
ranean cruise in 1938, and dated from Tangier, North Africa. Take
1 pony each of cognac, red port wi?e and ripe pineapple juice, putting
it in a shaker with lots of cracked ice. Flavour further with 1 tsp each
of grenadine and orange Cura~ao; and make tart with 2 tsp of lime
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

juice, strained. Shake and strain into a tall flute cocktail glass with a
stem. . . . Personally we have come to omit all grenadine. The port
gives it all the sweetness needed, also pretty colour.

WIL P. TAYLOR'S HOTEL NACIONAL SPECIAL, which,
along with the TROPICAL DAIQUIRI & the SANTIAGO de CUBA MINT
JuLEP Is ONE of the THREE FINEST BACARDI DRINKS KNoWN to ScraNcE
  Who, who knows his Havana, does not know, or has not heard of,
Wil Taylor. We met him back in 1931 when in charge of World
Cruise Publicity for Hamburg-American Line, and got into Havana
one time in 1933 just after they had mighty near blasted a marvellous
hotel off the map, to get at those Machado-phile officers hiding there.
And Taylor kept right on managing just as if it had been old times!
. . . But that time with pineapples sounding off all night along the
Prado, we elected to stick to the old downtown Plaza, what with wife
and child, but that did not prevent our remembering with great pleas-
ure Taylor's own Bacardi concoction: . . . It is "mighty lak" a Mary
Pickford, but still not, as the latter omits her limes.

Carta de Oro Bacardi, l jigger          Fresh pineapple juice, l jigger
Lime, juice Yi                          Dry apricot brandy, l tsp

   Shake with cracked ice, strain, serve in a tall cocktail glass with a
stem. . . . We indicate Gold Label Bacardi for the simple reason that
Carta Blanca is so delicate in flavour it barely comes through any rich
drink.

THE OKOLEHAO COCKTAIL, KNOWN out in the IsLANDS as
the "OKE"
  Having made three visits to these enchanted i~les, both during and
after prohibition, we have seen, smelled and tasted some pretty strange
beverages out yonder. Actually okolehao i's a spirit made from acer-
tain root, fermented and distilled. During her very strict prohibition
administered by a lady who apparently got as much joy out of life as
a newt or an eft-see Webster-Hawaii's "oke" was made from fer-
               THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

mented pineapple juice, from the bud sap of coconut palm, from
taro, from sweet potatoes, sugar cane, and heaven alone knows what
else. Now the original native liquor is legal once again, here's the ac-
cepted island cocktail for them as likes it.... Take 1 jigger each of
okolehao and fresh ripe pineapple juice, add Yz jigger of lime juice,
properly strained, and shake with lots of ice. Garnish with any sort
of bright, small, tropical-appearing blossom.

THE PARISIAN COCKTAIL, BEING a FINE APPETIZER & TUMMY
ToNER
   We got to like this rather odd tasting beverage after a stay in Paris.
It is simple and worth noting. Take 1 jigger of Byrrh wine, add the
juice of 1 small green lime, strained. Shake with lots of cracked ice
briskly and serve in a Manhattan glass with no further trimmings
at all.

SHELBY LANGSTON'S PALMETTO PUNCH, which Is an
Exonc INVENTED on a FLORIDA CAMP HUNT
  Perhaps our readers have noted a fairly persistent mention of sour
oranges in Volume I. It seems high time that Americans lucky enough
to live in the Deep South should realize what a truly wonderful fla-
vouring agent they are-this wild descendant of the original bitter
rind Seville oranges brought to Florida and West Indies by Columbus
himself, has flavour both in juice and peel so delicious, so exotic, so
superior to other sour citrus fruits, that it should be much more appre-
ciated. The Cubans know it, and their Steak Bigarade is listed in Vol-
ume], on Page 138.... Our good friend Shelby Langston, like our-
selves, has shot quail, wild turkey and deer along the great headwater
hammocks and marshes of the St. Johns River, in Florida, and squir-
rels in Nawth Ca'lina. Sour oranges can be found in many old de-
serted clearings, and his discovery in camp of this mixture should
rank in Florida with our friend's invention of the world-famous Dai-
quiri, noted on Page 30.
   The proportion of sour orange juice to that of sweet depends on the

                                 . 79.
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

sweetness of the sweet oranges. It will only take a few trials to learn
what suits personal taste-and here's to you lucky Floridians. No one
sells sour oranges, they give them away, for not one person in a thou-
sand thinks they are worth picking off trees.
Old Tom gin, r part; (Dry gin               Sour orange juice, r part
    will do)                                Sweet orange juice, 2 parts
  Shake quickly and hard with lots of ice, pour through strainer, and
twist a small piece of sour or sweet orange peel over each glass to get
the oil of orange aroma and flavour.

PAN AMERICAN CLIPPER, from the NOTEBOOK of ONE of OuR
PILoT FRIENDS WHo-when OFF DuTY-MAY SEEK ONE
Applejack, r jigger; Calvados               Lime, juice, r scant pony
    apple brandy is better still            Grenadine, I tsp
Absinthe, r dash
  Shake with cracked ice and serve in Manhattan glass.

PANCHO VILLA COCKTAIL, another CLASSIC from the PHILIP-
PINES that WE ABsoRBED in 1926, for the FmsT TIME
  The late Filipino gentleman of this name was probably the greatest
man for his inches that ever drew on a pair of fighting gloves. In
Manila he is still a national hero, his monument is impressive, and
when Monk Antrim's Chino Number One whipped this one up in
his honour, it proved more than good enough for us to insert here.
Carta de Oro Bacardi, 1 pony                Dry gin, 1 pony
Dry apricot brandy, 1 pony                  Ch~rry brandy, I tsp
Pineapple juice, r tsp                      Stuffed olive
  This is a sweet one and must be very cold. Fill shaker with fine ice
and pour into a big champagne glass. It is one of the very few cocktails
calling for several conflicting ingredients that is worth its own weight
in bicarbonate of soda.

                                   . 80 .
               THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

THE PENANG COOLER, a NEw TROPICAL Exonc WE FmsT MET
in PENANG, PRINCE of W ALES IsLAND, F.M.S., FoLLOWING a Sw1M in
the MILK-WARM WATERS of the STRAITS of MALACCA
  After a swim at the Aquatic Club, we came back to town and ran
into this, unexpectedly proposed by a semi-Chino barkeep at the
Eastern and Occidental Hotel. The mint gives it coolness, bite, and
character.
Dry gin, 1 jigger                    Fresh pineapple juice, 2 jiggers
                    Green creme de menthe, I pony

  Shake with shaved ice and serve with it in a tall cocktail glass with
stem. A flat glass was used out there, and ice was strained out-but the
more modern technique is best, using ruf electric mixer and leaving
ice m.


THE PENDENNIS CLUB'S FAMOUS SPECIAL
   To 1 jigger of dry gin add Yz jigger of the best dry apricot brandy
procurable. Squeeze in the juice of 1 lime or Yz a small lemon, strained
of course, and trim with 2 dashes of Peychaud's bitters which has been
made for generations in New Orleans .... Split a ripe kumquat, now
available during the winter in most big grocery or fruit stores; take
out the seeds and put the 2 halves in a Manhattan glass. Stir the drink
like a Martini with lots of cracked ice and strain onto the golden fruit.
This is a sweeter Grande Bretagne, see Page 47.


TWENTY and SEVEN PICKER-UPPERS for the NINETEENTH
HoLE, which CAN not only ENABLE Us to GREET the NEw DAY UN-
DISMAYED but MA y-on OccASION-SAVE a LIFE
  There are times in every man's life when, through one reason or
both, a man feels precisely like Death warmed up. In such sorry plight
there is but one thing to do if we do not wish to sit and suffer through
a whole day waiting for the cool hand of normalcy to stroke our dry
and fevered brow-a Picker-Upper .

                                  . 81 .
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

   This little list of variegated hairs of the dog, has been hand-culled
from quite a few joustings of our own with this sort of human wither-
ing on the vine. We have, from sad example set by several friends,
come to distrust all revivers smacking of drugdom. It is a small,
tightly vicious circle to get into, and a bit of well-aged spirits with
this or that, seems much safer and more pleasant than corroding our
innards with chemicals of violent proclivities, and possible habit-
forming ways.
   For years before our ignoble experiment, civilized man had been
trying to civilize his drinking, and when we think back just yester-
day-as world's time is measured-man's one drink was a crudely
fermented affair: juice, seeds, saps, and the like.
  Now take an eye filling look at any well-stocked oasis, and consider
progress in colour, taste, bouquet, and result. This early civilization
in America-except in the main centers like Charleston, New Orleans,
Philadelphia, and New Yark-with the possible exception of the
matchless julep, commanded hard likker with a chaser, if any. Now
since the insanity of the nineteen-twenties man is studying his spirits
sanely and with revived arti::tic interest in their possibilities.
   The field of the great gray Morning After is one which this same
civilized mankind is trying to graduate from undiluted hair of the
dog that bit him, to something less regurgitative, and shocking to the
whole mental and nervous network. With this thought in view we
quietly suggest any of the following.

  WORDS to the WISE No. XIII, on the NECESSITY for GOOD
  SPIRITS for MAKING PICKER-UPPERS
     Just as we don't serve mediocre acid red wine to the delicate sensi-
  bilities of a prize gourmet friend, neither do we give the timid and
  demure morning-after tummy a turn with raw new bilious atrocities.
  !fere, if ever,_ the smart host will have a speci~l ca;he of a few prize
  Jewels-for his very own sake. The vile odours arising from improp-
  erly age~ spirits are just about all a chap needs to set him to withering
  on the vrne permanently. . . . Use only the best ingredients, for after
  all we don't do these things very often, and it's better to be safe than
  sunk.
                                   . 82.




                     ,
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

FIRST on the LIST MARCHES CHAMPAGNE, although IT HAs
already BEEN DEALT with SYMPATHETICALLY under CHAMPAGNE CocK-
TAILS, PAGE 21, et sequitur
   A plain chilled pint of champagne per person with two or three
simple biscuits is probably the finest picker-upper known to civilized
man. The champagne must be very cold, and can either have bitters,
a little added brandy, or both.
   The Maharajah's Burra-Peg, and the Imperial Cossack Crusta, are
the most magnificent examples of this we have ever known.
   Champagne in this role is somewhat more expensive than any of
the other remedies collected, but when we think back there is stark
realization that the time comes to every man when relative expense
means little; and rather than risk a "turn" frqm sight of raw egg, or
taste of sweet ingredients, the refreshing, chill tartness of the bubbly
is a dispensation straight from heaven.

ABSINTHE FRAPPE and ABSINTHE DRIP
 These two picker-uppers are already given on Page 8, et sequitur.

ABSINTHE PHOSPHATE
  There is no doubt about this one working. . . . Simply put two
dashes of lemon phosphate in a bar glass, add a jigger absinthe and a
pony of Italian vermouth. Stir for a moment and pour into a claret
glass .filled with finely cracked or shaved ice. Vermouth can easily be
cut down slightly to taste.

BARRANQUILLA PICK-ME-UP
  Barranquilla, as has already been pointed out, is the residential cen-
ter of near-coast Colombia for many of those Americans who do
things in oil and emeralds. And here, we found, a man can need a
picker-upper just as well as anywhere else.
    Cognac, 3 jiggers                   Angostura, 2 dashes
    Dubonnet, 2 jiggers                 Egg, whiter
  Shake well with cracked ice and serve in a tall glass with stem.
            THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

CAROLINA PLANTATION BRACER
  After dancing the night through, or possibly a gentleman's game of
draw poker-nothing wild-until the wee sma' hours, our tide-water
blade knifing his way about the selvages of Charleston's society was
wise in his pick-me-ups. This suggestion from Bill Heyward, school-
mate of years back, given between boats one winter afternoon is some-
thing to note, lest we forget.

Cognac, 1Yz jiggers               Gomme syrup, 1 tsp; optional
Egg, I                            Jamaica or Barbados rum, Y4 tsp
Port, 1Yz jiggers

  Shake with cracked ice until busily frothing, and pour into a tall
cocktail glass with stern. . . . Other neat flavour touches can double
for the Jamaica: Cura<;:ao, Cointreau, Cordial Medoc, Drambuie, Bene-
dictine, Chartreuse, Grand Marnier.


PARISIAN "GOOD-MORNING"
Absinthe, 1 jigger                  Yellow chartreuse, Yz tsp
French vermouth, Yz tsp             Lime or lemon, strained juice, 1,
Bar sugar or gomme syrup, I tsp          or Yz
                       Anis or anisette, 1 tsp

  Frappe with cracked ice, strain into old fashioned glass, add small
bit of ice, and a little soda or seltzer, stir and pote.


HARVARD CLUB PICK-ME:UP                       1

  This, as Frederick A. R. Thompson, the th~n Managing Editor of
THE COMMONWEAL informs us is the brain-child of former
                                        ' or that, Head Factotum be-
British naval officer now, for this reason
hind mahogany in the New York Harvard Club. The request is to
serve them three ounces at a time, and as cold as may be with chilled
glasses.... Three of these have been known to change a blue, murky,
               THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

Monday morning into a nascent glowing thing, all rose and mother
of pearl.
        Good rye, Pernod Veritas, Italian Vermouth, r/3 each
        Two dashes Lemon Phosphate, per drink
  Frappe well, and strain.

HOLLAND RAZOR BLADE
  This rather rugged bit of canine fur was introduced to us by a Hol-
lander who brought body and soul within hailing range on the occa-
sion of certain dawn flight from Batavia, via Semarang and Soera-
baja, to Bali, in the year of Grace 193r. . . . It is for those who can
stomach Hollands and is one of the promptest.
Holland gin, 1Yz jiggers                Dust wi'th cayenne just before
Lemon, juice, Yi, or juice whole           drinking
   lime
  This may be shaken with broken ice, or not. We would say yes.

THE ISLE de FRANCE SPECIAL, BEING in FmsT ANALYSIS a
CHAMPAGNE CocKTAIL, as well as ONE of the FINEST PICKER-UPPERS
KNOWN to FRAIL FLESH, Is CoNSEQUENTLY LISTED on PAGE 24

KILROY'S BRACER, LoNG an AccREDITED MoRNING-after REJu-·
VENATOR EVERYWHERE
Cognac, rYz jiggers                         Angostura, 3 dashes
Lime or lemon juice, 2 tsp                  Anis or anisette, Yz tsp
Egg, 1                                      Shaved ice
 Shake well, turn into a goblet with some of the ice, and fill to taste
with well chilled seltzer or club soda.

LEFT BANK SPINE STIFFENER
 Dated Paris, 5:1o·A.M. May 6th, 1926, and well remembered, too!
            Cinzano, or good Italian vermouth, 2 jiggers
            Absinthe, or Pernod Veritas, 1 jigger

                                   . 85 .
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

  Shake with fine ice until well chilled, turn into a whisky glass and
top off with a trace of seltzer, leaving in three teaspoons of the fine ice
to keep the chill edge on.

BIARRITZ "MONK-BUCK"
   Something to cause nerves to join and coordinate for that morning-
after-and rather chill (we've found) swim which characterizes the
Mediterranean when we got there too soon, one spring.
   Simply throw two and a half jiggers of cognac in a sixteen ounce
collins glass already lined with a long spiral peel a la horse's neck.
Pack half full of fine ice, fill with the best ginger ale or ginger beer
the place affords, float on a couple of tablespoons yellow chartreuse,
and let it settle to the bottom. . . . Don't plan on more than one, for
a little while.

MORNING GLORY No. I
Dry gin, I jigger                    Egg, I
Lime, juice, Yz                      Green creme de menthe, 2 tsp, or so
  Shake with cracked ice, serve in a tall cocktail glass with stem.

MORNING GLORY No. II
Good rye, or bourbon, r jigger         Orange bitters or Angostura, 3
Gomme syrup, 1 tsp                          dashes
Cura~ao, r tsp                         Absinthe, 1 tsp
Cognac, I jigger
  Mixing technique seems torn between stirring in a bar glass with
ice, straining into a whisky glass, and adding,a little seltzer topped off
with a twisted lemon peel-or stirring in the same bar glass, and turn-
ing into an old fashioned glass with a lump of ice, a squirt of club
soda, and a twist of peel. . . . Some sa'.ne folk merely shake with ice
and a jigger of soda or seltzer. The latter works more suddenly than
the more diluted drink.... Absinthe is difficult to recommend to suit
others-increase or decrease to taste. Pernod Veritas will do.
                                   . 86.
                 THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

  MORNING "DOCTOR"
     Take 1Yz to 2Yz jiggers of good brandy, a trifle over a cup of very
  fresh milk, and a teaspoon of sugar, and beat the whole business with
  an egg-beater.

  OLD PEPPER
    This is nothing for children to toy with, but for action and plenty
  of it we report that little is lacking on that score.
      Good rye, 1 jigger                  Good bourbon, I jigger
      Lemon, juice 2/3                    Worcestershire, Yz tsp
      Tabasco, 3 drops                    Chili sauce, Yz tsp
    Frappe hard, and serve in any sort of fu~proof glass.

  PORT ANTONIO PUNCH, from JAMAICA
    This is a mild and delicious tropical invention which is very easy
  to make, and which-unlike so many Jamaica drinks-doesn't insist
  on one hundred per cent rum in its spiritual makeup.
    Squeeze and strain through a sieve juice of two lemons, one orange
    Donate a pony of old Jamaica rum, 4 jiggers of cognac
    Stir in two level tablespoons of brown sugar
    Two bottles Rhine, or one quart chablis
    One bottle of iced club soda
    Sliced fresh fruit du jour
    Simply ice, shake, and garnish. This is utterly delicious, but be sure
  and use fresh pineapple slices, not canned-and ripe pineapple at that!

  PORTO FLIP
   From the Army & Navy Club, Manila, P.1., 1931
  Port wine, 2 jiggers                    Sugar, 2 scant tsp
  Egg, fresh essentially, I whole         Chartreuse, 1 tsp
  Thick cream, 1 pony                     Grated nutmeg
  Cognac, I pony




------~----- -             ------                                            ------·- -- --
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

  Send this up on the breakfast tray of the tweakiest and most jangled
week-end guest on the casualty list, and watch the smiles wreathe-
and be sure it goes down on an empty tummy for best and most sooth-
ing effect.
  Simply mix everything with a lot of cracked ice, shake hard and
serve in a small goblet, floating chartreuse on top with spoon, and
adding a good dusting of grated nutmeg.

THE SO-CALLED PRAIRIE OYSTER
   We once had a shipmate who insisted on a morning dip in Long
Island Sound even in November; just so we have other hardy friends
who eat enormous cream oyster stews for mornings after, or toss off
prairie oysters, which seen eye to eye would simply mean one gyra-
tion of our adam's apple and a free ticket to a marble slab in the
morgue . . . . However, for such hardy souls, we might as well set
down its precise preparation.
Egg yolk, in its unbroken state, I            Ketchup, I tsp
Salt, good pinch                              Vinegar, Yz tsp
Lemon juice, 1 tsp                            Tabasco, I drop
Worcestershire, 1 tsp                         Cayenne, pinch on top
  Shut eyes, open mouth, murmur prayers for the soul, pop in and
swallow whole. . . . This has been administered for the evening be-
fore, but its benefits have proven to be base canard, a sorry snare and
delusion.

RANGOON STAR-RUBY, a PICKER-UPPER from BURMAH, on the
RoAD to MANDALAy
  This affair is properly listed among the exotics from Far Ports, on
Page 126.

SAINT MARK'S MIRACLE ANNOTATED ONE NoVEMBER DAY in
   I                          '
SEATTLE, after a WASHINGTON-STANFORD FooTBALL GAME, at the AD-
VERTISING CLUB
  This name is of doubtful origin, and all we know is that the receipt
                                     . 88 .
               THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

found its way to England across Europe, from the Venetian canals,
where it has an enviable record of revivition after the unwise cup on
a night before.
Champagne fine, which of course          Yellow Curairao, r pony
   is liqueur brandy of great age, 2     Lemon, juice, Yz
   jiggers                               Orange bitters, Yz pony
Angostura, Yz tsp
   Shake briskly and strain into any sort of glass best calculated not to
fall from our numb and listless clutch.


SWISS YODELER, which WE EMPLOYED ONCE at Vn..LA d'EsTE,
which Is on LAKE CoMo
  We always wondered what made those Swiss alpenstock wielders
such staunch and hardy fellows, so consider this for a warmer-up of
waning flesh. The egg white is heavier than most absinthe cocktails.

Absinthe, r jigger         Anis, or anisette, r tsp        Egg, whiter
 Shake well with cracked ice and pour frothing in tall cocktail glass
with stem.


WHITFIELD SMITH'S SUNDAY MORNING COCKTAIL,
No. I, & this ONE's a DARB!
  This is another contribution from Fritz Abildgaard Fenger, and
should be served in a 4 oz glass, same as a proper West Indian Swizzle.
This makes four drinks.
  Put 2 fresh egg yolks in 4 oz glass, and fill with ice water. Add one
and a half more glasses water, and add a teaspoon of sugar or gomme
to taste. To this contribute 4 teaspoons Angostura, swizzle-or shake
in shaker to break yolks-and add four ponies of rye or bourbon
whisky. . . . In go 2 oz-Yz a cocktail glass-of cream, and a little
Creme de Cacao or Benedictine, to taste. Swizzle again and grate
nutmeg on top .... If no cream handy, use water.
               THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

NoTE: Our suggestion would be to omit sugar if any sweet liqueur is
used, or it may be too sweet.

SUNDAY MORNING COCKTAIL No. II
       Cognac, l Yz jiggers               Egg, l whole
       Port wine, Yz jigger               Sugar, Yz tsp, to taste
       Black coffee, 2/3 pony
  Shake and pour in tall cocktail glass with stem.

THE PEKING TIGER'S MILK No. I, from the PRIVATE FILES of
M. GERBER, the WAGON-UTS, LEGATION STREET, PEKING
  This we consider the most amazing milk drink we ever tasted. Its
formula-not known to many-and its history are noted on Page 130.

TIGER'S MILK No. II
  This variation was accumulated by us from the Siamese Head Bar-
Boy at the Phya-Thai Palace in Bangkok, Siam, in the year 1932, after
a trip up-country from the Siamese port of Pak-Nam. Turn to Page
l3I.


TIGER'S MILK No. III
  This is a West Indian picker-upper from the Windward side of
Jamaica, and dedicated to our friend, gentleman and Rhodes Scholar,
Emerson Low, who lived there. Use Jamaica rum & No. II.

  WORDS to the LIQUID WISE No. XIV, on the EARNEST PLEA
  for a BIT of OUTDOOR EXERCISE to those HUMAN VICTIMS
  of the
       . "MORNING-AFTERS"
     Sc1ence                                       I
              has just recognized that with the tummy linings well satu-
  rated with last night's ethyls or methyls, it is best remedied by in-
  creased natural circulation removing mµch of this condition. There-
  fore, after any Picker-Upper, let's not lie supine and bewail hard and
  unj~t fat~, but take a walk, play pingpong-any physic.al activity
  not mducmg actual death, and no matter how slight or bnef, cannot
  but help; and is urgently recommended!

                                  . 90.
               THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

"PINEAPPLE MILK" or LECHE PREPARADA PIFIA, CoL-
LEcTEn in the LoVELY CITY of SAN SALVADOR, CAPITAL of the CENTRAL
AMERICAN REPUBLIC BEARING the SAME NAME
  This is a truly delicious beverage first brought to my attention by a
lucky friend who stumbled upon it on a trip we made down the cen-
tral American coast, in 1934 in the quite amazingly modern capital of
San Salvador. All the ingredients are easily found.
    Pineapple, sun-ripened until good and soft, juice and pulp, I
    Vanilla bean, 2 inch long piece; or I tsp extract
    Good sound liqueur brandy, Yi cup or so; or white Bacardi
    Milk, 3 cups
    Sugar, brown, to taste; white will do
  Pineapple is topped, pared and sliced off core. Then either chopped
into small pieces or crushed in a mortar until almost a pulp-saving
all the rich juices. Blend everything together, let be for two hours, and
serve well chilled and garnished, if in the mood, with incidental slices
of orange, pineapple, sprigs of mint, or maraschino cherr:ies. It is a
grand hot weather potation, and has been known to cause chronic
invalids to take up their-and other-beds and walk.

PINK LADY No. I, from MIRAMAR CLUB, out by OLD PANAMA CITY,
PANAMA
  We've sat and swum from Miramar Club seven or eight times on
different trips across the Isthmus. The Pink Lady there is enough
different from the usual to make it well listable here.

Old Tom gin, I jigger                       Sloe gin, I jigger
Lemon, juice Yz small; or I lime            Absinthe, 2f3 tsp
Orange bitters, 3 to 4 dashes               French vermouth, Yz jigger
Beaten egg white, I tbsp                    Grenadine, I tsp, to taste

  Half fill shaker with cracked ice, add egg, then the rest. Shake well
and serve in goblet. This is a drink of considerable shocking power,
and after consumption keep out of the sun, and in touch with friends .

                                   • 91 .
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

 CURA<;AO "PONTOON BRIDGE"
   We snupped this during the spring of 1933 when circling the Carib-
 bean for reasons not pertinent to drink-mixing. After a few hours in
 the perfume and other bazaars, we sat on the antique upper balcony
 of a little sort of Stranger's Club overlooking the odd steam-donkey-
engine-clriven pontoon bridge connecting Willemstadt with our part
of the city, and a traffic policeman sitting in a high chair under a huge
umbrella advising us of the fact that the only honest shop in the place
was this or that. . . . Having sampled all colours of Cura~ao liqueur
until it was virtually oozing from our pores, we still stuck to our guns,
and were treated to the following-which having no name, we called
the Pontoon Bridge.
   Fill a large glass with shaved ice, then mix two ponies cognac with
one pony Cura~ao, juice half a lime, and a dash of orange bitters.
Pour over ice, and garnish with a stick of really ripe pineapple. Cherry
is optional. We found no cherries in Cura~ao.

A RAKISH FAMILY of SIXTEEN POUSSE CAPES, INCLUDING
a SQUAD of ANGELS WHo NEVER HAD WINGS, BEING VAruous &
SUNDRY PRETIY LIQUEURS COMBINED in this FASHION or that-for a
PURPOSE
  A liqueur, technically, is any alcoholic beverage sweetened and vari-
ously flavoured with aromatic substances: oils, herbs, and so on. . . .
A pousse cafe is an arrangement of one or more liqueurs originally
designed by Gallic progenitors as a "coffee-pusher"-hence the name
-to be drunk with the after dinner cup, but like many other French
ideas started out for one purpose, it has been diverted into other, and
rosier, fields where dalliance may be made more pleasant and profit-
able through quiet absorption of these pretty rainbow-hued drinks.
   Now we are great believers in the Up-and-Doing, Derring-Do, and
Go West, Young Man. There's no nonsense back of our inclusion of
this seductive list of jewel coloured drinks here. We include them for
their original purpose of pushing coffee down, and leave criticisms
to the judgment of Jurgen's discreet Tumble-bug.

                                 . 92 .
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

  Actually we do think pousse cafes have been slightly diverted from
their original coffee-pushing intent, for if anyone can imagine follow-
ing a good demitasse of strong black Mocha with half a dozen sweet
cordials roosting on the yolk of an egg, we pass! . . . Some of these
affairs m ay seem to h ave rather strange names but, like many other
things which have gained recognition through the usage of years, we
feel it only the stout thing to do to write them as they are called, and
not drop the modest lash to hide our possible blushes.


  WORDS to the LIQUID WISE No. XV, on the NUMBER of
  RINGS in a POUSSE CAFE
     For reasons known only to barkeeps and their ancient patrons, a
  proper pousse cafe should contain seven,. five, or three, contrasting
  rings of different coloured liqueurs. Just why these numerals are
  sacred we have never quite learned-any more than why seven and
  eleven count profitably on the first roll of dice, or why folk like Haile
  Selassie had three-decker parasols. .               •
     The liqueurs are poured in ever so carefully with a spoon, and sit
  each on top of the next, unmixed, brilliant each in its own right. The
  successive sips give varying taste thrills.

ONE CAUTIONING TALE about the GENTLE but UNSAFE AMA-
TEUR ART of BREEDING POUSSE CAPES
  We first got this idea in Spofford's big bungalow out in Ballygunge,
Calcutta, one pre-monsoon evening in 1926. A tremendous Bengali
curry, then coffee on the terrace under the low, hot stars, talking over
college days, friends here and there, impending marriage, birth, death,
while big bats the size of kittens shuttled back and forth over the level
green of the tennis court. . . . Then the idea, we would get every
cordial and liqueur in the place, and brew bigger and better pousse
ca/es-and each time one went bad-mixed up hopelessly instead of
remaining in distinct jewel-sharp layers, the culprit responsible had
to toss it off bottoms up. When a successful one was brewed with five
layers or more, the result was shared.
  To be exact this whole affair is a matter of precise specific gravities
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

 as we tried it then, for instead of flowing each layer on carefully out
of a teaspoon, we poured direct from bottle-so that any heavier liquid
sank at once into the lighter, and mixed results were usual.
   All memories of that especial evening faded into a tropical after-
glow by about eleven o'clock, when Chidsey the Dodge agent tells us
he came over hoping for a spot of stud poker, and found the two of
us, heads bloody and almost bowed, still muttering and mixing with
exaggerated care more and bigger pousse cafes, while a brace of
Mohammedan bearers peered at us through doorways, and marvelled
at the madness and triviality of certain white Sahibs who would thus
procure child's size glasses into which they continued to pour the same
pretty coloured liquids.
   Recalling this in Havana last month, we made it a point to collect
types from the best cantinas and fancy tourist bars, to see if there might
be anything new in the routine. We found a couple of fancies, which
appear below, each in its proper place, and now turn the whole busi-
ness over to readers, depending on their judgment and decorum to the
last.

FIRST A BRIEF COMPANY of SIX ANGELS
   Aunt Belladonna Fittich may blink a bit at this short list, but when
things have been going on as long as this "angel" business it belongs
to history, whether or no. We have our own personal idea, not con-
venient to mention, of just why angels were born; but be that as it
may, full many a lusty swain has screwed up his courage to the stick-
ing point and proposed honourable marriage to the maid of his choice
while either-or both-were being swayed by the gentle caress of an
" angel"· · . . They are too sweet for serious consumption, and all end
up with a nominal amount of thick cream_..:.whipped, or from the
bottle. Ladies and gentlemen we give yo~: The Angels.

ANGEL'S BLUSH
  Pour in Y4 each of the following: Maraschino, Creme Yvette, Bene-
dictine, thick cream.

                                 . 94.
               THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

ANGEL'S CHERRY, a NoMrNAL RISK WE MET SuccESSFULLY in
MENTONE, near the ITALIAN BoRDER, on a SPRING DAY in 1932
  This addition, whose title meaning is debatable, is a newcomer to
the fold. Those of us who take the trouble can find Damiana in any
decent wine merchant's shop, and a perusal of the label illustration
alone should be worth the price of admission. . . . Pour la Patrie!
. .. Needless to say Damiana is alleged to possess certain properties
which wise men have sought for many centuries, with greater or less
result-mostly less. . . . Benedictine, Damiana, and cognac, 1/3 each.
Top off with a tablespoon of thick cream, center with the largest and
reddest cherry the neighbourhood affords, and be about our business.


ANGEL'S DREAM
  Omit the Benedictine, and use 1/3 each Damiana, Creme Yvette,
cognac and heavy cream.


ANGEL'S KISS
   This heavenly, and hypothetical osculation has scant value as an his-
torical beverage here or abroad, but as long as we are going in for
items of more or less serious nonsense, it shall not pass.
   Float in, and on, 1/5 each of the following: Damiana, Parfaite
Amour, yellow chartreuse, Benedictine, cognac, and beaten egg white.
On this is superimposed a layer of thick cream, and on it ginger, clove,
or nutmeg-a slight pinch-depending on the perquisites of the
occasion.

ANGEL'S TIT, No. I, BEING the ORIGINAL FORMULA
  First encountered on one of those Canadian week-ends at Niagara
on the Lake when many nice people seemed to forsake these United
States seeking oasis for reasons of their own, during prohibition.
    Maraschino, %                         Whipped cream, ~
  Garnish with scarlet cherry in location diametrically exact .

                                 . 95 .
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

 ANGEL'S TIT, No. II
  A Parisian indication of chancey origin, but of definite value.
 Damiana, or Parfoite Amour,%             Whipped cream about Y4" on
 Cognac, Y4                                  top
   A similar cherry, accurately teed up in traditional style.

TEN MORE which ARE NOT CALLED ANGELS

PARIS' ARC-en-CIEL-the WoRLD-FAMous RAINBOW
   This is probably the most famous pousse cafe ever conceived, and
is not only beautiful but logical-as it takes the whole seven colours
of the spectrum and places them before you in all their jewel colours
to be sipped pensively out of a glass, one layer at a time, and experi-
encing the gamut of seven delicious tastes. Simply spoon in one-
seventh each of the following: Creme de violette, creme de cassis,
maraschino, green creme de menthe, yellow chartreuse, CuraCi=ao,
cherry or other red coloured brandy.

 EVE'S GARDEN, from a FOL/ES BERG°kRE ENTR'ACTE, in a
 not-too-DISTANT SPRING, in PARIS
    One third each Damiana, Creme Yvette, and dry apricot brandy-
 all finished off with a spoonful of thick cream and a green cherry in
 center. . . . Cognac is also indicated for the apricot, and to our thought
 is much better, as the drink is sweet enough anyway. . . . This sort
 of thing only goes to show what grown men will do to keep from de-
 voting their time to something constructive in life.

 FRENCH TRI-COLOUR
  One third each of: Grenadine, maraschino, Creme Yvette.

, THE JERSEY LILY, which INCIDENT~LLY, CAME from FRANCE
    Into the usual cordial or pousse cafe glass pour in half a jigger green
  chartreuse, then with a spoon float half jigger cognac, finally ten drops
  of angostura or other, preferred, bitters. First the bitter, then the
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

strong, then the pungently sweet-that is the order of drinking tastes.
Something like the Dominica Topet, already noted in proper order.

L'AMOUR TOU/OURS, BEING Nor PRECISELY a POUSSE CAFE,
but rather a POUSSE l'AMOUR
  Build layers as follows, and very carefully: r/3 maraschino, egg
yolk, r/3 Benedictine, r/3 cognac. Build this one in the conventional
sherry glass. Et bon chance, mes garfons!

LIQUID SYMPHONY
   Into a wine glass of shaved ice add the following in order men-
tioned: Creme de rose, yellow chartreuse, creme de menthe, and finally
some well-aged brandy. Garnish with two red cherries on top.

LOUIS MARTIN'S FAMOUS POUSSE CAFE No. I
  Take a large cordial glass, with stem, and mix in order given the
following amounts and types:
           Yellow curacrao, about ~ full
           Kirsch, same thickness layer
           Green chartreuse, a little thinner than the others
           Yellow curacrao, enough to fill glass
  In the old days Louis Martin's was New York's premier night spot.
As we recall it Vernon and Irene Castle started there, as well as being
the rendezvous for important folk of all sorts.

LUNE de MIEL, which of CoURSE MEANS "HoNEYMOON," HAs al-
ready BEEN Nornn on PAGE 49

POLSKI POUSSE CAFE, STilAIGHT from the PousH CoRRIDoR, and
the SuPPOSEDLY FREE CITY of DANZIG at !Ts END
  Into a sherry glass put a quarter of chartreuse, the yolk of a smallish
egg, and fill to the brim with Dantziger Goldwasser, that amazing
liqueur in which tiny bits of pure gold leaf arise and sail gracefully
about each time the bottle is agitated. . . . This drink is to be held up,

                                  . 97 .
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

studied, and taken in one or three gulps-the latter preferred, so the
cura~ao can seal with its sweet and citric kiss all hint of egg.


HAVANA RAINBOW PLUS
  Another of Sloppy Joe's specialties, and although the colour se-
q1,1ence isn't too scientific, the reaction upon guests is guaranteed true
to form.
  One-seventh each of: Grenadine, anisette, Parfaite Amour, green
creme de menthe, yellow cura~ao, yellow chartreuse, Jamaica rum .
. . . Serve with rum flaming, and make peace with thy neighbour!

LA ZARAGOZANA'S NE PLUS ULTRA, Noun in HAVANA,
FEBRUARY 24th, 1937
  This restaurant, frequented mostly by wiser Cubans is one of Ha-
vana's leading places for seafood, and especially Morro Crab, see
Pages 67 and 68, Volume I. It hasn't the atmosphere of some of the
older spots, but amigos, what red snapper, what langostas, what sau-
mon-the Habaiiero name for the rare, delicious, mackerel-like ocean
runner, "salmon."
  Apricot brandy, benedictine, chartreuse, cointreau, cognac, and
creme de cacao-1/ 6 each.... Then a dash of anis del mono, or any
good anisette. Frappe quickly and serve promptly. . . . A really deli-
cious blend. Anis del Mono, or "anis of the monkey's head" is a spe-
cially good and dry Spanish anis, their favourite morning eye-opener.

THE POMPIER HIGHBALL, a FRENCH CoNcEssroN SOMETIMES
CALLED VERMOUTH CASSIS-the LATTER BEING the JmcE of CURRANTS
  Sitting under awning at any Parisian sidewalk cafe we can see all
sorts and conditions of men seated at small round m~tal tables, and
drinking various things for all sorts of reasons. ';['he average French-
man is a funny chap who confines his plain and .fancy drinking to 3
grooves, 2 of which are the eternal wine with meals, and to stimulate
hunger. · · . This Pompier Highball falls into the latter 'class, and
besides all this it is very cooling and refreshing, has a sharp tangy
                               ''
               THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

taste due to the herbs and simples in the vermouth. Take Yz jigger
French dry vermouth and the same of creme de cassis. Put in a couple
of lumps of ice and fill the glass with club soda or seltzer. Serve in a
tall thin glass and only fill % full, please.

THE HABANA PRES/DENTE, now KNOWN to MANY, but SouND
ENOUGH in ITs OWN RIGHT for LISTING in any SPIRITUAL VoLUME
  This has long been one of Cuba's favourite drinks and every visit-
ing Americana should go to La Florida and get one from head-
quarters. The mix is simple and satisfying.... Just put I pony each
of Bacardi Gold Seal, and dry French vermouth, into a bar glass with
cracked ice. Donate 1 tsp grenadine and the same of curas;ao. Stir and
serve in a Manhattan glass with a scarlet cherry for g~rnish. Finally
twist a curl of yellow orange peel over the top so that the oil strikes
the surface of the drink, then drop the peel in .... Sloppy Joe's own
Special is merely the Presidente with the juice of a small lime added,
and the twist of lime peel handled as above.         ·

RITUAL of the PUNCH BOWL
  This inheritance from the Orient and Europe-and especially from
old England-is probably interwoven with more tradition than any
other form of drinking. From those grand days when landlords really
did fill the flowing bowl, before and after riding to hounds, on feast
and saints' days, or holy days; at weddings, births, yes and even death
-the cheering and soothing bowl was all part of the affair.
  Oddly the word itself is another Oriental derivation like "toddy,"
and comes from the Hindustani panch, meaning five, and indicating
the number of ingredients employed by the wily Hindu: Toddy or
arrack, lemon or lime, tea, sugar and water.
  Anglicized, it is literally any drink made of rum, whisky, brandy,
wine or other liquor, in combination with water, fruit juice, and sugar
-or of fruit juices and the rest without any spirits at all-and properly
served, either very hot or well iced, from a larger or smaller bowl, into
cups or glasses.
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

   For centuries this sort of thing has been concocted in the Far East
of varying materials to suit head, stomach, temperature, and heart. In
England it soon trickled its way into fine society, possibly in the effort
of the British East India Company to attract notice of the world to
tea and other Oriental importations of the Empire.
   Besides all of this tradition which came to us few things in life are
more kind to man's eye than the sight of a gracefully conceived punch
bowl on a table proudly surrounded by gleaming cohorts of cups made
of crystal or white metals, enmeshing every beam of light, and tossing
it back into a thousand shattered spectra to remind us of the willing
cheer within. . . . The colours too are delightful-the purple of the
grape against silver or crystal, the scarlet and gold and green of fruits,
the tawny ambers of other wines, the fragrant scent of sugar cane,
sun-ripe grapes, apricots, grain, peaches, what not-all are a challenge
to eye, nose and lip; all blended into a perfect and harmonious whole.
   The very amplitude of the bowl itself suggests hospitality, and an
invitation to quench thirst, which no service of single small glasses
can ever effect.
   In place of the eternal afternoon tea, a really unusual punch not only
delights guests, but saves the hostess the usual maze of questions about
who takes lemon, or cream, or sugar. There is no conceivable occasion
which cannot be served with a good punch-whether we prefer it with
or without the spirits.
    It takes a little imagination and ingenuity to make a visibly attrac-
 tive punch, but we have tried to confine ourselves to punches which
 not only taste well, but look well also.

RULES for a DECENT PuNCH ARE FEW-but
                              I
                                     INFLEXIBLE
I. Use fresh fruits, for although canned fruits will do, as a general rule
   they lack the pungency, the aroma, of fresh.
2. If ~park~ing water, wine, ginger beer, or ginger ale is to be added-
   wait u~til the very moment of service. The whole object of a sparkling
   punch is to have it sparkle-and as bubbles soon escape into the atmos-
   phere after pouring in bowl, save that pouring until the last second.
3. Don't use small ice, except in emergencies requiring quick cooling-or

                                  • 100.
                 THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

   in. Planter's Punches and West Indian Swizzles, treated on Page 109 .
    . . . Fine ice melts rapidly, dilutes the punch. Dilution beyond a cer-
   tain point courts sure disaster through loss of flavour, weakness and
   anaemia of otherwise prime ingredients . . . . Use a single fairly large
   block of ice.
4. Chill all ingredients at least an hour or two before putting in the bowl,
   if a punch is to be served cold. Pouring room-temperature liquids on
   any sort of ice is a withering shock to the ice itself, requires a great deal
   of refrigeration in a very short period of time, and can only succeed in
   too-rapid ice melting. . . . A big block of ice in pre-chilled punch will
   last a long time and mel_t slowly.
  WORDS to the LIQUID WISE No. XVI, BEING THREE ORIGI-
  NAL TOUCHES in GARNISHING or FLAVOURING the
  PUNCH BOWL
     Those of us who have a large freezing drawer under the ice cube
  section of a mechanical refrigerator can add a colourful and dainty
  touch by adding a little harmonious colouring matter to the water
  before freezing into cubes . . . . We can also add fruits like cherries,
  strawberries, and the like, to the water, thus freezing them visibly in
  the ice. . . . Instead of ice we can use water ice or sherbet flavouring
  with the basic taste of the punch like pineapple, grape, orange, and so
  on. This should be put in a little bit in each cup when serving, and
  makes things very cold. . . . Grate a little fresh coconut kernel, have
  it in a gravy boat, and dust a teaspoon on each cup when served. This
  adds a delicate, nut-like flavour which brings out the other tastes, only
  don't use the ordinary shredded coconut. It simply won't do as well.
A HAND-PICKED LIST of TWENTY & SIX PUNCHES from
MANY GAY LANDS, & INCLUDING SoME ELEVEN WEST INDIAN PLANTER's
PuNcHES & Sw1zzLES BASED on FIVE CRUISES through that FASCINATING
CHAIN, & NoTEs from YACHTSMEN FRIENDS on CRUISING to the OuT
ISLANDS
FOR THOSE WHO ADMIRE HOT PUNCHES, a BRIEF SE-
LECTED L1sT MAY further BE FouND under HOT HELPERS, START-
ING on PAGE 50, onward
FOR THOSE WHO WISH to Mix NoN-ALcoHouc PuNcHEs
 We have carefully selected several very original, fragrant, and

                                    • IOI •
               THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

flavourful punches as a relief from the eternal orange-lemon-fruit
scramble which has hog-ridden us for generations. These are listed in
a separate group under TEMPERANCE DELIGHTS, on Page 139·

BENGAL LANCERS' PUNCH
  Captain Ferguson, late of His Majesty's Cavalry in upper India,
gave us this one back in 1926, and it was a specialty of his Colonel on
quite special occasions.
Champagne, l qt                           Lime juice, Yz cup
Orange juice, Yz cup                      Cointreau or curac;:ao, 3 ponies
Fresh pineapple juice, Yz cup             Charged water, l pint
Jamaica or Barbados rum, 3 ponies         A little sugar, to taste; and keep
Claret, 2 pint bottles                         it dry and not too sweet
   Ice as above, and garnish with very thin slices of green lime. This
is a particularly delicate punch, and Barbados rum is less likely to
overpower the delicate wine flavours than Jamaica.

PUNCH a la DUC de BOURGOGNE
Red burgundy, 2 qts Lemon, juice, 2 ·            Fine sugar, ~ lb, or so
Red port, l pint      Cherry brandy, l cup Orange, juice, 2
              Charged water, about l qt, or a trifle more
  Ice as above and garnish with pitted red cherries.

FISH HOUSE PUNCH, DATING from 1732, the STATE in ScHuYL-
KILL CLASSIC

  This is America's most famous punch receipt; at least it is known
by reputation to more people than any other. The mix has come from
1732 right to this date-practically 20q years, unchanged and un-
improved for the simple reason that it could not be improved upon!
Jamaica Rum; Barbados Haitian:         Water, 2 qts; spring water is
   or Yz Bacardi and Yz' Jamaica,"         indicated
   2 qts                               Lemon: juice, 1 qt; lime would
Cognac brandy, l qt                        be even more delicate
Loaf ~ugar, % lb                       Peach brandy, l wine glass
                                . 102 .
               THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

  Put sugar in bowl, put on enough water to dissolve completely,
then contribute the various spirits and liquids-stirring diligently.
Center as big a lump of ice as may be in the bowl, permitting the brew
to stand unmolested for a couple of hours. . . . Our alternate sug-
gestions are in no way intended as heresy, but simply indicate what
substitutions, if any, are possible. Many entirely worthy folk both on
the Schuylkill River and the Mississippi, don't happen to care for
Jamaica rum. All our male parentage having come from Philadel-
phia or Germantown or the Chester Valley out the "Main Line," we
know a bit of how Philadelphia tradition, good or poor, carries on
serenely in the midst of an otherwise crude and bustling world. . . .
Also bear in mind that while many Jamaica rums come in full quarts,
both Bacardi and Cognac invariably seem to come encased in fifths,
so calibrate accordingly.... Warning: there are a horde of so-called
"Fish House Punch" receipts that include benedictine, cura~ao, bour-
bon, and God knows what else. Eschew them. There is but one re-
ceipt, unwavering, invariable. This is if.

KIRSCHWASSER PUNCH, a la ARLESIENNE
  Kirsch, as we keep emphasizing so often, has the peculiar faculty
of enhancing other delicate flavours-both in drink and food. Its ratio
here with maraschino is suggested as being the best balance, although
sometimes the amount of the latter is cut down slightly, and the kirsch
stepped up to the point where there is a ratio of three to one of mara-
schino, and in some cases the maraschino is left out entirely.

Kirschwasser, 1Yz cups               Maraschino, Yz cup
Rhine or sauterne, 2 pint bottles    If Rhine is used, add 1 extra tbsp
Fresh pineapple juice, 4 cups            sugar
Sparkling water, I pint              Sugar, fine, Yz lb "·'

  Ice ingredients first, then mix in bowl with large lump of ice, and
garnish with bits of really ripe pineapple, and grapefruit pulp. . . .
A sprig of mint in each cup is a nice touch.


                                • 103 •
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

LATIN AMERICA PUNCH, from a MouNTAIN PLANTATION HousE
out of SAN JuAN, PoRTO Rico
Carta de Oro Bacardi rum, r Yz             Orange curac;ao, Yz cup
    cups                                   Champagne, r qt
Rhine wine, 2 pint bottles                 Orange juice, r cup
Lemon juice, r cup                         Sparkling water, r pint
Thin small slices fresh pineapple

   Ice for two hours beforehand, pour in bowl with large lump ice,
have a gravy boat filled with fresh grated coconut kernel, and sprinkle
a level teaspoon on each glass as served. Don't use shredded coconut-
that is only for cakes and so on.

FRITZ FENGER'S PINEAPPLE "BOLA," which Is a PuNcH of
PARTS
  Fenger's dossier has already been given at some length, and we will
merely state here that both the wording of this receipt and spelling
of the word "Bola" are his-this last presumably an anglicized ver-
sion of the old German word Bowle, or Wein-Bowle. The change
from "It" to "Her" is also interesting.

  "For evening use: Right after breakfast stalk a ripe but unblemished
pineapple, and when agreeable, snatch it off its perch and take it home
where-in the intimacy of the butler's pantry-we remove first her head,
toes, hard heart, and finally her spiny corset.
   "Dice her up very fine indeed and heap pieces and juices in a large punch
bowl and cover with powdered sugar. Pour on a bottle of good bourbon
or rye-not Scotch-and leave her lay all day, covered and safely beyond
reach or range of the great <lane. Meanwhile you can go back to your legiti-
mate work, if any.                                 1

   "After dinner sculp a piece of ice, at least 8" on a side, place it in the
center o~ the bowl and over this pour slowly, bottle by bottle, scads, shoals
and lashi?gs of chilled dry champagne to the number of 3 or 4 at least-
 when a bit hard up use Yz champagne and Yz charged water, or 213 Rhine
or Moselle and 113 charged water-only don't tell any Nazi I recom-
mended this last!
   "Now wi~h a judicious ladle stir gently, just a trifle, to mix with the

                                  . 104.
                         I I




                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

whisky-sugar-pineapple foundation. Dip in and-drink. But when serving
best put her smack in the middle of the table with chairs noosed all around;
break out tobacco, musical instruments and yarns; for although this Bola
does not make one intoxicated as we know the word [Note: We resent
this! Author.] it does take your legs away, very thriftily."

  Author's Note: Having tried this business out once our only sug-
gestion would be to ignore all thqught of ice and replace it as a cool-
ing agent by 2 or 3 quarts of fresh pineapple sherbet or water ice. The
unusual thing about this punch is that it requires no rum of any sort,
for strength or flavouring.

PINEAPPLE MILK, or LECHE PREPARADA PIIVA, from SAN
SALVADOR, C.A.
  This mild, and almost startlingly delicious pineapple-milk-brandy-
and-other-things punch is insc.ribed on Page 9r.

TIGER'S MILK, Nos. I, II, & III
  These successive formulae from Peking;·Bangkok; and finally the
windward coast of Jamaica, and which we consider the most amaz-
ing milk drinks extant, are listed on Pages 129, 130, 131, & 90.

NAPOLEON II PUNCH, sometimes CALLED PUNCH ala l'AIGLON
    Time this so it will be made when wild cherries are ripe, barring
t:J:iat use sour red "pie" cherries.
Claret, or Burgundy, 2 pint bottles      St. Croix, Martinique, or
Any sour cherry juice, l cup                  Haitian rum, l cup
Fine sugar, to taste; keep fairly        Pitted cherries, Yi cup
    acid                                 Charged water, l pint
Vanilla extract, 2 tsp or so             Garnish with violets
  Ice as above, and add a few bits of chopped violet petals to each cup
as served.

THE PFIRSCHBOWLE, or PEACH PuNcH, for OuR REUNION in
VmNNA, or AN¥WHERE
 This requires ripe peaches, not green ones a little coloured by stand-

                                  • 105 •
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

ing in a shop. Scald, take off skins, slice, and dredge with plenty of
confectioner's sugar, and let them marinate in their own sweet juices
for two hours. First pour in a bottle of Rhine or Moselle wine, then a
bottle of good Burgundy or claret. Put in the ice box, and just before
serving uncork a bottle of iced champagne. Put an 8" cube of ice in
the bowl, and pour over. . . . To our way of thinking a couple of
ounces of drier type apricot or peach brandy couldn't hurt this thought
a mite.


CHARLESTON'S ST. CECELIA SOCIETY PUNCH
   Speaking of social niceties, for a good many generations no one in
Tidewater South Carolina really mattered unless his name appeared
on the annual ball list of St. Cecelia. Consequently it gradually be-
came a fixed matter of family and the bluest of blood lines. Bank
balances did not count as they did in New York's 400. Although the
membership list has been expanded now and then along more sanely
liberal lines, here is a Society started two hundred / ears ago, forty
years before our Declaration of Independence w~/ conceived, and
whose prestige and power was sb great that when ,the welkin rang in
ancient Hibernian Hall, not one single newspaper ever mentioned a
bit of what took place. . . . Gentlemenwe~ntlemen in those days,
and the over-famed "freedom of the press" didn't pry into their social
affairs, as they do nowadays with certain visible folk like, say, Ex-
King Edward VIII. Furthermore the music plays behind a lace cur-
tain, and ladies don't go to la salle des dames unchaperoned!

Peach or apricot brandy, 1 fifth;    Fresh pineapple, I ripe one,
    peach is traditional                 sliced fine and cored
Jamaica rum, 1 pint; and get         Lemons or limes, 6 lemons or IO
    good old rum                         li111es, sliced thin
Dry champagne, 4 quarts              Green tea, 1 quart
Cognac brandy, 1 bottle              Club soda, or other good spar-
Sugar, 3 cups                           .kling water, 2 quarts total


                                • 106 •
                            I/


                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

  Slice lemon and pineapple and marinate, tightly covered, overnight
with brandy. At noon of the evening when we plan to serve it add
rum, tea, sugar and peach brandy. Blend well. Just before serving put
in champagne first, then club soda. Chill cups for best results, and re-
member that good club soda, although costing a few cents more than
the average local "charged water" or seltzer siphon, actually adds not
a hint of antique brass to ruin the other worthy company of liquids!
... Either Schweppes or Perrier are in order.


 SIR FLEETWOOD'S SHEPHERD'S SACK POSSET, from the
 REconns of DR. WILLIAM KITcHJNER, LoNDoN, 1817.
    Centuries back it was quite the fashion to toss a bit of verse, blank,
 or blankety-blank, whether it were regarding a new or old sweetheart,
 a new horse, or a new drink. ... Now this is a very old drink indeed,
·and Sir Fleetwood was a stout one with the wassail bowl. Of all the
 Sacks beloved by England, this was his favoured one. We quote it
 literally from the immortal Kitchiner.           ·
         "From fam'd Barbadoes on the western Main
          Fetch Sugar, ounces four-fetch Sack from Spain,
          A pint,-and from the Eastern Indian Coast
          Nutmeg, the glory of our northern Toast;
          O'er Barning Coals let them together heat
          Till the all-conquering Sack dissolve the sweet;
          O'er such another Fire put Eggs, just ten,
          New-Born from Tread of Cock and Rump of Hen:
          Stir them with steady hand and conscience Pricking
          To see the untimely end of ten fine Chicken;
          From shining shelf take down the brazen skillet,-
          A quart of milk from gentle cow will fill it.
          When boiled and cold, put milk and Sack to Egg;
          Unite them firmly like the Triple League,
          And on the fire let them together dwell
          Till Miss sing twice-'You must not kiss and Tell,-'
          Each Lad and Lass take up a silver spoon,
          And fall on fiercely like a Starved Dragoon."


                                  . 107.
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

  Don't judge the drink by the poetry, and just travel along cozily
with this kitchen model Ogden Nash of a bygone century . . . . Sack,
by the way, is any one of several light fairly strong wines imported
into England from Spain and the Canary Islands. If you will substi-
tute sherry, and perhaps a dash of good brandy there will be no com-
plaints from the twice-singing Maid!


THE ANCIENT WASSAIL BOWL from an ANCIENT ELIZA-
BETHAN FoRMULA, CrncA 1602, & TRULY NoTABLE for !Ts ExcEEDING
MILDNESS
  In Saxon times this custom of the Wassail Bowl at feast days was an
important ceremony, and later it became an accepted custom at Christ-
mas Eve, when minstrels or choirs, or village singers went about sing-
ing carols where there was a candle lit in the window.
  In the Feudal castles, and manor houses, the Wassail Bowl was
borne into the banqueting Hall with songs and carols, and crowned
with garlands.

Nutmeg, Yz grated; or 2 tsp         S~gar, I cup
    powdered                        Eggs, yolks 6; whites 3
Powdered or grated ginger, I tsp    Apples, 6 cored, but not pared
Cloves, 6 whole                     Mace, ){ tsp
Cinnamon, 1 inch of stick           Water
                     Sherry or Madeira, 2 qts

  Take spices and cover with a cup of cold water. Fetch to a boil;
adding wine and sugar. Let heat up. . . . Meanwhile in the Wassail
Bowl (Punchbowl) previously warmed:
  Break in six yolks and three whites. Beat up. When wine is warm-
not boiling-mix a teacupful with the.egg. When a little warmer, add
another cupful, and repeat until five c~ps have been used . . . . Now
let the rest of the wine boil up well, and pour it into the bowl also,
stirring well all the time, until it froths in attractive fashion. . . .
Fill core~ apples with sugar, sprinkle on a little of the spice and roast
                                 . 108.
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

until nearly done. Time these to suit the end of the wine-pouring
process. Throw them into the bowl, and serve the whole thing very
hot. . . . Some stout hearts add a tumbler full of good cognac brandy
to the whole-and we, after testing the business, heartily agree with
them; since sherry of itself isn't potent enough to make any Saxon
defend his native land, much less a 20th Century wassailer, with all
we have been through during the one and a half decades that Saxons
never even considered as drinkable fluid!


TEN WEST INDIAN PLANTER'S PUNCHES, SWizzLEs, and
like CEREMONIES of a PLEASANT NATURE
   Any set rules for these tropical institutions would last about as long
as a set rule for a mint julep to please Louisville and Baltimore. There
are as many Planter's Punches as there are-or were-planters; as
many Swizzles as swizzlers.
   After stays in Nassau, Cuba, Jamaica, Haiti, Cura~ao, Venezuela,
and both ends of the Canal Zone, we have found most of this drink
family extremely good, especially those made of special aged Jamaica
rum we've imbibed in the Myrtlebank Gardens, Kingston. Those
listed here have, for one reason or another, stood out in our memo-
ries. . . . If there is any one thing which is hard and fast everywhere
it is this: Get decent well-aged rum, and brandy or cognac, for all
punches and West Indian drinks. Just because they are a bit disguised
with tropical fruit juice is no sign that thirty seconds swizzling, shak-
ing, or stirring will make up for eight years the raw spirit should have
lain in wood casks.
   The charm of all these exotics is their mellowness, their smoothness
and the gentleness with which they come, see and conquer.                '
   One other thing: Don't try to use canned fruit juices of any kind
and expect notability. In other words, fresh fruit lacking, call it a rum-
canned-grapefruit-juice-ade, not a Planter's Punch.
   Extreme chilliness is the brand of excellence, over and above these
thoughts, and for this reason the soundest mixers chill glasses, or in-

                                 • 109 •
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

gredients, or both-and in swizzles this includes the pitcher too; if
we really want to show off, a good Ys" of white frost on the outside!

ADMIRAL SCHLEY PUNCH
  This is supposed to have been named after the American admiral,
and we shouldn't mind such a pleasant piece of business being called
after us.
St. Croix or Barbados rum, Yz         Bourbon, Yz jigger
     }1gger                           Sugar, 1 tsp
                       Lime, peel and juice, 1
  Shake with fine ice, and turn into goblet-ice and all. Garnish with
sprigs of mint, a stick of ripe pineapple, and so on.

THE STANDARD ONE, TWO, THREE, FOUR, WEST INDIAN
PLANTER'S PUNCH, No. I
  This is the original receipt from the very first discovery of the drink.
  1 of Sour (lime juice); ~ of Sweet (sugar or gomme syrup); 3 of
Strong (Jamaica rum); 4 of Weak (water and ice combined)-and
use shaved or quite fine cracked ice, please. . . . Doctor this with the
usual dash of Angostura, shake hard and serve-with ice left in the
glass.
  America, when not having time to dally with its drink as a correct
West Indian planter is supposed to do, sometimes transposes the
quantities of "strong" and "weak"-making the rum four parts and
the water three, instead of as given above.
   Barbados, Demerara, Martinique, Haitian, or Cuban Rum, can al-
ways replace Jamaica; and if using Bacarl:li mix Carta de Oro, for
fuller flavour, not Carta Blanca.

SANTIAGO de CUBA, CARTA de ORO BACARDI PLANTER'S PuNcH
Bacardi Carta de Oro, 1 Yz jiggers           Lime, strained juice, 1 Yz
Sugar or grenadine, 1 tsp                    Mint and fresh fruit
                                     IIO •
               THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

   Fill a large goblet with shaved ice well packed down, mix the
liquids and pour over ice, then garnish with sliced orange, cherries,
and a stick of fresh ripe pineapple, and plenty of fresh mint.


SAVANNAH PLANTER'S PUNCH
  Cotton, lumber and naval stores, rosin, turpentine spirits, that was
-and still is, Savannah. The whole world sailed to Savannah's door
up Tybee River, and many a West Indian Colonial found it-with
Charleston-a first mainland step before reaching England. . . . This
Planter's Punch varies quite a bit from those punches and swizzles
we've inspected and brewed along the great circle of islands from
Haiti to Trinidad and Curai;:ao. But it's a sound one; and as all sound
potables should be-it's simple. Also it's tall~ For one:

           First chill the glasses-whether silver or crystal
           Good Jamaica rum, wine gl~ss; or 2 ponies, to taste
           Cognac brandy, 2 jiggers
           Lime, juice, I; or juice Yi lemon
           Fresh pineapple juice, Yi jigger

   Pack the glasses tightly with finely shaved ice, pour in the liquids
previously mixed, stir briskly for a moment with long spoon or
swizzle stick. Garnish with a finger of ripe pineapple, a cherry, or a
bit of orange. Serve when glass frosts. There's no dodging the fact
that we must expect to use decent rum. This recently born swarm of
new, strange rums can no more replace even a fair Jamaica, Barbados
or Haitian rum, than Mr. Kreisler can play the E Flat Nocturne on
a turnip crate. . . . The cognac lends the original touch here.

FIVE WEST INDIAN SWIZZLES of a COMFORTING DISPOSITION                 )


& EMBRACING ONE of JAMAICA RuM, and FouR of AUTHENTIC ORIGIN
and other BAsEs, from the RouGH LoG of FREDERICK ABILDGAARD
FENGER


                                • III •
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

A JAMAICA RUM SWIZZLE from a PLANTATION OVERLOOKING the
NoRTHERN, or WINDWARD, PoRT ANTONIO SECTION
         Jamaica rum, r full pint; or 2 measuring cups full
         Lime, juice 8 small; 6 large; or 6 average lemons
         Gomme syrup or sugar, 4 tsp
         Fresh mint, r doz sprigs

   Mix liquids and sugar in pitcher with ice, frost with swizzle stick,
pour out into commodious glasses, and garnish with sprig mint, and
stick of fresh ripe pineapple, if some is handy.

  WORDS to the LIQUID WISE No. XVII, NOTING that
  PRACTICALLY any PLANTER'S PUNCH, if MULTIPLIED
  SLIGHTLY into QUANTITY & SWIZZLED in a BOWL or
  PITCHER, BECOMES a "SWIZZLE"
    Don't be misled by the contradictory terms. A swizzle foundation
  could be any of the Planter's Punches given here-the usual tech-
  nique for which parallels that of the Mint Julep, insofar as cooling
  goes.

THE FOUR so-CALLED "MALLINGHOLM SWIZZLES"-ALL
of AUTHENTIC PROPORTION and CoRRECT GEOGRAPHICAL ORIGIN, &
furthermore MADE NoTABLE through the LoG of FREDERICK ABrLD-
GAARD FENGER, OWNER & MASTER of the ScHOONER DIABLESSE
  We seem to refer to Fritz Fenger quite a bit in this volume and if
we do it is because he has covered the West Indies as thoroughly and
intimately as anyone we know, and besides this is a gourmet and a
compounder of spirituous liquids both potent and astonishing to the
average landsman. Further than this he is a Danish-American yacht
architect dwelling-to the public shock of the B,oard of Selectmen
of whom he is a member-in the remote and pure·town of Cohasset,
in Massachusetts.                           .
   Back in the great sweep of Leeward and 'Windward Islands he is
still known as "de mon on de boat," dating clean back twenty years
or so when he sailed a canoe the size of an ample delicatessen dill
pickle-as we have already mentioned-from Trinidad slap to the

                                • II2 •
               THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

Virgins. Now for the benefit of those who haven't sailed those waters
we would like to remark that although this necklace of islands looks
on the map to be within cruller toss of each other, they are actually
separated by wide and rough cross-chop passages where the Carib-
bean and the Atlantic have a peas-porridge-hot game every six hours,
pouring tides back and forth. The natives, who sail things out of sight
of land we wouldn't use to cross an irrigation ditch, took one look at
that canoe with its 4" or so of freeboard and no rudder, and promptly
began recollecting ancient prayers to sea gods. News of his progress
went ahead of him via some sort of weird mackerel telegraph. And
no matter where he would beach the YA.KABOO, or at what hour,
reverent dark men and women waited upon him, fearful of some sor-
cery, yet eager as children to touch him or any of his things. They
fetched him food and drink, cured sea urchin festers, and stood and
watched his tiny butterfly winged sails fade and vanish into a cockatoo-
crest yellow dawn. At St. Thomas, capital of the Virgins, due to press
of time, YAKABOO was hoisted aboard stea.IJ?.er and went thus to
Boston.
  Several years later DIABLESSE, a good husky down-east fisher-
man schooner retraced the course of the little YAKABOO, with
greater leisure, plenty of seaworthiness, and with wife and young son
as Mate and Bo'sun.
  The first 4 swizzles garnered from Fenger are out of the files of a
Dane he met in St. Thomas named Mallingholm, and who has since
gone "where the angels (as Fenger says) live innocuously, so I've been
instructed-dang it!"
  He further informs us, with scant foundation of veracity-that
these are mild and caponed affairs which "may be taken-in moderate
abandon-without irremediable fraying out at either end."
  These 4 excellent swizzles have been given in accurate scale draw-
ings, so that the mixer may measure by eye by "placing a clean thumb
nail at each level before pouring."
   By adding I tumbler of ice water and ice enough, and 1 13 to Yi tsp
of sugar, we get swizzles for 4 guests .

                                . n3 .
               THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

CALIBRATION CHART for FREDERICK .ABrLDGAARD FENGER's
MALLINGHOLM SwrzzLEs, ABILDGAARD--CREDIT IT or not-BEING
Hrs GENUINE MIDDLE NAME & the ONE under which HE WROTE as
CAPTAIN ABILDGAARD for SoME YEARS in YACHTING
MAGAZINE



         Vermouth

       (ltalian-swcc_t)-




           Whisky




            tBittcrs

             No.1              No.2          No.3            No.4

ADDENDA:
  t Orange bitters lends a smooth change from Angostura in every case,
when so desired.
  • Indicates benedictine or Creme de Cacao.
  The bar glass shown is the conventional 5 to 6 oz size called a Star or
Sour glass.
   The amount of vermouth may be lessened in No. 2, and rum increased.
In general, after a bit of practice, both vermouth and bitters should be
regulated, to individual taste.            .

AFTER ICING WE SHAKE in a SHAKER or SwrzzLE with a
SWIZZLE STICK, but Do NoT Srurn. . . . ,THERE SHOULD BE a BEAD
on EACH GLASS

THE WEST INDIAN SWIZZLE STICK, what IT IS
  There is a wide cloud of misinformation on this subject. The au-
thentic swizzle sticks are the peeled stem of a plant owning, at base,

                                 . 114 .
               THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

a fan-like branching of roots-the latter cut some 3" long-and look-
ing like small gnarled fingers. This branched end is sunk into the
pitcher with ice and drink ingredients, the stem is held vertically be-
tween palms, and rotated smartly by sliding the palms back and forth.
They are procurable in all British West Indian possessions, for ob-
vious reasons, and are a romantic touch; actually however a swizzle
made out of this routine is no better than one chilled with a modern
chromium plated metal swizzle stick. Like airplane propellers made
of wood, and metal, the main question is do they stir up the air?

THE WORLD FAMOUS QUARANTINE COCKTAIL, No. I
FAVOURITE in MANILA, where IT even OUTSTRIPS the PERENNIAL DRY
MARTINI
   This drink is quite rich, and one is enough before a dinner. The
anis del mono-or "anis of the monkey head"-is the highly alcoholic
type Spaniards use as a pre-breakfast eye opener all over the globe.
If French anisette liqueur is used we had better in~rease the quantity
to Yz tsp or so. . . . Take 1 jigger of Bacardi, I tsp each of gin and
dry French vermouth, Yz jigger of orange juice, 2 tsp lemon juice,
sugar to taste, and 1 tbsp of egg white. Add I or 2 drops of anis, shake
with lots of cracked ice and turn into a Manhattan glass. Monk An-
trim's receipt sent especially for this volume calls for I tbsp of com-
bined gin and vermouth, and orange and lemon juice in equal
amounts, about I tsp each. Egg white is more than the standard blend,
being Yz a whole white.

THE QUEEN CHARLOTTE COCKTAIL; NAMED, so TELL
THEY the TALE, for QUEEN CHARLOTIE AMALIA-or AMALIE-now
also the NAME for St. GEORGES in the AMERICAN VIRGIN lsLANDS
   This is a lovely warm weather affair of a mildness which even a
Quaker miss could not shy at! It was donated by the charming wife
of a Pan-American Airways pilot on the big Brazilian Clipper for
them as likes their likker weak.
  Fill a tom collins glass half way up with finely cracked ice, turn in

                                ' II5 •
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

a scant pony of raspberry syrup, 2 to 3 jiggers of claret or Burgundy,
the juice of I green lime or Yi lemon. Fill up with lemon soda and
garnish with a sprig of mint.

NOW a REFRESHING COOLER from BARCELONA CALLED "RED
SNow," a LuscIOus & PLEASANT THING for SUMMER, & MILD ENOUGH
to Su IT the MosT SEDATE of MEN
   The summer before several nations besides the Spanish undertook
to alter the map of Spain to suit their own ideas, we had a very old
and dependable friend who thought it a good idea at the time to cycle
over Spain with a rucksack and paint box over her back. Spanish red
wine is not vital, and we suggest Burgundy be substituted; or claret.
   Strain the juice of Yi lemon or I small green lime, retain the spiral
peel of the fruit, about I tsp sugar or grenadine syrup, I dash of orange
flower water. Turn into this I cup of Burgundy, of Valdepefias from
Spanish La Mancha, or any good Spanish vino tinto; any good claret.
Pack a big goblet with shaved ice and pour everything into it, or bet-
ter still pour the blend into The Mixer with a cupful of finely cracked
ice, and make it into a sherbet-like rosy tinted condition which, when
it is poured into a goblet, speedily melts enough to drink but remains
cold far longer than the usual claret lemonade that has merely been
iced in the refrigerator. Finally dust a little nutmeg on top; the Span-
ish touch.
                     '
REMEMBER the MAINE, a HAZY MEMORY of a NIGHT in HAVANA
during the UNPLEASANTNESSES of 1933, when EACH SWALLOW WAs
PUNCTUATED with BoMBS GoING off on the PRADO, or the SouND of 311
SHELLS BEING FIRED at the HoTEL NA Cl 0 N AL, then HA VEN for CER-
TAIN ANTI-REVOLUTIONARY OFFICERS
  Treat this one with the respect it deserves, gentlemen. Take a tall
bar glass and toss in 3 lumps of ice. ·Onto this foundation donate the
following in order given: 1 jigger of good rye whisky, Yi jigger Italian
vermouth, I to 2 tsp of cherry brandy, Yi tsp absinthe or Pernod
Veritas. Stir briskly in clock-wise fashion-this makes it sea-going,

                                 . n6 .
               THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

presumably!-turn into a big chilled saucer champagne glass, twist-
ing a curl of green lime or lemon peel over the top.

LEXINGTON, KENTUCKY, RIDING CLUB COCKTAIL
  This is a fine whet to the negligent stomach, besides being an ex-
cellent cocktail seldom served in the north these Martini days. We are
acquainted with a genuine Kentucky Colonel who serves this as his
I concession to the cocktail era besides a Bourbon Old Fashioned.
. . . Take of calisaya, I jigger, add a dash of Angostura and the same
of acid phosphate. Stir with ice like a Martini and strain into a Man-
hattan glass. No garnish, please.

THE YOKOHAMA ROMANCE COCKTAIL, BEING a YELLOW
PERIL CoNcocTED by ONE ToYAMA, No. I BAR-BOY at a YoKo NIGHT
SPOT CALLED "ROMANCE" CABARET
   We don't include this merely in an effort to be "foreign" for truth
was that the "Romance" Cabaret was a.sorry place of blaring music
and taxi-dancing small Japanese men with lovely fluid doll-like Japa-
nese girls with bobbed hair and bangs. But upon being urged by
Toyama to sample his masterpiece and we declined with thanks, he
frosted one for us on the house, with his compliments. It is, to put it
commonly, an accidental "natural" and in it went. That evening was
painfully punctuated later when, after having chartered a fleet of
bicycles from some coolies, we attempted to navigate cross lots toward
the main godowns and docks where our ship was tied up, we ran
blindly into a mass of earthquake rubble still unremoved after the
disaster of 1923-fetching up all standing in an inverted position and
semi-conscious, and from which we were finally extricated by the
combined and random efforts of a gentleman from North Carolina
who made cigarettes and a gentleman from Kalamazoo who made
stoves and shipped them, for increment, direct to you. The cycle was
reported a total loss.
  The cocktail: 2 jiggers of old cognac, I jigger of cherry brandy, ~
to Yz tsp of Rose's lime juice or lime syrup-the kind we see in soda

                                . n7.
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

fountains in the slender bumpy-surfaced bottle, and the juice of Yz a
small green lime. Shake very hard with very fine ice and serve with
some of this left in. Frozen in The Mixer, tropical style, is still better.
Serve in a big saucer champagne glass. Arigato Toyama!

THE ROSY DAWN COCKTAIL, a BELOVED EVENT from OuR LAST
V1s1T to HoNGKONG, from which WE REAPPEARED with a BRIDE with-
out KNOWING IT, & WE SHOULD HAVE Tow this ONE to BoB RIPLEY
Wtto WAS in ToWN at the TIME-SECRETARY & ALL
  For sentimental reasons this probably outranks all ether cocktails
in our past and present life, for it was through its rosy-inspired courage
we got ourselves a wife, only we didn't know it until long afterward,
and after we were married back here in the States.
   We have the ingredients all noted on the calling card of F. P.
Franklin, who then-and we hope now-is editor of the Hongkong
Telegraph. It was first introduced to us by J. Handley Pegg, Esquire,
Chief Engineer of His Majesty's Colonial Highway Department
there. It involved a routine cocktail party aboard the RESOLUTE on
one April evening, then dinner at a West End Chinese Club, and
later on still-after many Rosy Dawns, Mrs. Franklin got so senti-
mental about our recent fiancee that she said as long as she couldn't
attend the wedding in person she would like to see us married some-
how. So Handley Pegg went out of the room with her and came back
with his collar and coat on backwards, and Franklin gave the bride
away, and the gramophone played Mendelssohn, and there were flower
girls and maids of honour, and God knows what else.
   Then Mrs. Franklin started to cry and took off her own wedding
ring, and said we had to use it. So we did, and Pegg married us out of
the Anglican book of Common Prayer, andi.everything was very fine,
 and we capped the Rosy Dawns with vintage Krug z923. Then just
 before sunrise Mrs. Franklin gave us. a big cloisonne tub of freesia,
 and then we were sent down in Franklin's own chartered limousine,
 and our Bride started to cry in the motor launch as we got half way
over to Kowloon-side, and said it was because she was so happy but

                                 . u8 .
                      /I

               THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

also because she had lost one of her pet jewel jade earrings she'd bar-
gained half a day to get up in Canton or somewhere. We never found
the earring, and had to make the other into a necklace pendant too--
and as for the tub of freesias, we toted the whole seventy pounds of
them along the Bund at Kowloon-and the sight of your humble
servant, thus burdened, was too much for the coolie roustabouts just
scratching themselves awake for the day's labour, and they howled
and giggled at the mad white man who would thus lose face aping
the porter's trade when he could hire it done. And as we came finally
up the spidery forward gangway the first fingers of a Rosy Dawn
searched up and over the stark mountains surrounding Hongkong's
superb harbour, and painted the hull of the MARIPOSA a maiden
blush tint where she lay just to the eastward of our own berth. Here
is the original receipt.
   Take 1 liqueur glass each of the following: dry gin, orange curas;ao,
and cherry brandy. Add 1 tsp Rose's lime juice, or soda fountain lime
syrup. Put in a big champagne glass filled with crac~ed ice, stir, and
fill with a touch of seltzer. . . . We later have found that by cutting
down the cherry brandy and curas;ao to I liqueur glass total for both,
and tossing in 1 pony of cognac, we have a drier mix, and not quite
so sweet, yet still maintaining authority enough for any man.

THE SO-CALLED RUSSIAN COCKTAIL, a MEMORY of PEKING
in 1926
                                                                      '
  In that year, which seems so very long ago now, Peking was a place
of sheer delight. Trade was better after the war, the memory of the
Revolution and ~assacre of White Russians was a vague and tragic
business to Russians who were young enough to forget what had
been. There w_as a l~vely girl ':ho _mainta~ed a shop selling jades
and Imperial tnbute silks, carved ivones and kmgfisher feather screens
at the Grande Hotel de Pe~in. And after a while we came to go abou~
to odd parts of the vast city together, and one evening at the small
jewel-like house on Pa-Pao Hutung where we had gone for some
decent sukiyaki-the only place in Peking where we could see what

                                • II9 •
               THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

 made up the things we ate I-she commanded ingredients, and after a
 pause, had them brought to the small room with the sliding screens
 that gave out on a small garden close where the magnolias drifted the
 rose-snow of their petals against the high gray wall; and so she sat
 there in the bamboo print kimono they gave her to wear, and mixed
 a trio of these for old times' sake, to Russia as she ·had quit it ahead
 of bayonets in 1917, a pale gold haired child of I I or 12.
    Into a crystal goblet put l cup of finely cracked ice, and onto this
 pour l Yz jiggers of good cognac and the same of the best Gilka k iim-
 mel, stir for a moment and fill the goblet with chilled extra dry cham-
 pagne. Garnish with a single flower petal, or bloom. It is not a drink
 to be taken lightly, but advisedly, reverently.

 CAP HAITIEN RUM & HONEY, or CLAIRENE au MIEL, a
 WARY ExoTic CoNTRIBUTED by GLENN "STIFF" STEWART of EASTON,
 MARYLAND, & MIAMI BEACH, WHo SPENT MucH TIME in HAITI as
 AMERICAN MINISTER
   We have mentioned Glenn Stewart briefly in Volume I, and we can
 assure all readers that he is a gentleman of parts, who knows many
 dishes, many drinks, and probably more about pre-Columbian his-
 tory than any layman alive. . . . Clairene, in Haiti, is merely raw
 white rum, but we have found that when Yz Bacardi and Yz Haitian
 or any good aged dark rum is substituted, the drink acquires char-
 acter, discretion and merit. . . . Dissolve l tsp or 2 of strained honey
 with 1 Yz jiggers of this rum blend into an old fashioned cocktail
 glass. Stir well, turn into this fluid Yz the glass full of finely cracked
 ice and stir like a Martini to chill well. No bitters, no garnish.

  THE SAIGON SPECIAL, another ODD DfµNK from the CAPITAL
  CITY of FRENCH INDo-CmNA & DATING from the YEAR 1925
     This dates back to 1925 when the goo~ old SS RESOLUTE stopped
1 in French Inda-China, and some of our friends undertook to fly up-
  river as near to the marvellous Cambo.dian ruins of Angkor, as might
  be sane, then to motor back via Pnom Penh-imagine a place called

                                  • 120 •
               THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

Pnom Penh-to Bangkok to meet ship again at Pak Nam. . . . The
plane reminded us of a celery crate decorated, respectively, with an
electric fan and an evinrude motor. It sputtered and died finally com-
ing to rest on the Saigon River, with no chance to walk home. . . .
This addition to any anthology of dampness was one remembered
aftermath when back in Saigon, and muttering about the contrari-
ness of fate generally. On checking we find that it is a slightly sweeter
Jerusalem Between-the-Sheets, plus a nip of egg white.
    Cognac, l pony                       Lemon juice, Yz tsp
    Dry gin, Yz pony                     Egg white, 2 tsp or so
    Cointreau, Yz pony
 Shake with cracked ice and serve in tall cocktail glass with stem.
Garnish with cherry. Use no sugar, the cointre.~u lends sweetness.

SANTIAGO NIGHTCAP, from a STAY in SANTIAGO de CUBA, in
the EARLY SPRING of 1930                    ..
  This is another favour passed along to this field representative and
wine tester by the late Senor Facuno Bacardi, it being his primary
thought to donate something to woo sleep and restore the slightly
frayed physical assembly. It is a simple drink, and would also make
a fine picker-upper.... Take l)iz jiggers of Gold Seal Bacardi rum,
add l pony of orange curac;:ao and the yolk of l egg. Shake hard with
cracked ice and strain into a large saucer champagne glass.

THE SEPTEMBER MORN, FmsT DiscoVERED at the INGLE-
TERRE BAR in HAVANA, CuBA, in the MoNTH of JANUARY 1926
   This is simply the famous Clover Club, as mixed originally at the
Belleview Stratford in pre-prohibition times, only instead of being
based on dry gin, it employs the rounder, less pungent foundation of
Bacardi rum. At the Polo Club, in Manila, the September Morn has
in addition, Yz pony of dry French vermouth. . . . Therefore: take
l)iz jiggers of Gold Seal Bacardi, Yz tsp sugar, 2 tsp of egg white, Yz
pony of raspberry syrup. Grenadine may substitute, but raspberry
                                   • 121 •
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

syrup is conventional. Now add the juice of 1 small green lime, or Yz
a small lemon, carefully strained, of course. Shake well and serve in
a flute cocktail glass with a stem. No garnish, and straws may be
stuck to the lip of the glass-scarlet straws, please.

KELLY'S SHAMROCK SPECIAL, from the BAR at the OLD
KELLY'S Rrrz, which WAS a FAMOUS CABARET at the WESTERN, or
PACIFIC ENTRANCE of the BIG DITCH, & which UsED to GROW MoRE &
MoRE INTERESTING with EVERY FLOOR DATING from GRADE!
  One of the eight or ten times we've prowled the Zone, it became
prudent to spring two American friends from the local native city
Cuartel-jail in Americana-where they were incarcerated for slight
offenses not necessary to mention. The celebration, on St. Patrick's
day, resulted in the following brain-child, in co-operation with the
then head barkeep of Kelly's Ritz. . . Barring this, shake with finely
cracked ice.
Dry gin, 1 jigger                          Bar sugar or syrup, Yz tsp
Lime, juice 1 small, Yz large              Egg, white 1
Green creme de menthe, 2 tsp
  Mix with shaved ice, and frappe diligently-preferably with an
electric machine like The Mixer; shake through a sieve into a tall
cocktail glass with stem, garnish with a clover leaf or shamrock-we
used a sprig of mint. This sieve business builds the drink into a conical
mound.

THE FAMOUS SHANGHAI BUCK, a CLASSIC in this VAsT PoRT
which CoNsuMES-or Dm CONSUME, at LEAST, before the JAPANESE
IssuE-MoRE BACARDI RuM than any other ,CITY on EARTH
  The British Shanghai Club Bar, on the Bund at Shanghai, for years
boasted the longest mahogany strip in the known world, but has of
course long since been surpassed here, after America shrugged off
the arid yoke of prohibition. The fact remains, that it has more at-
mosphere right now to the square inch than most chromium plated
                                 • 122 •
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

night spots have per square acre. Years before the man on the street
over here had ever heard of a Daiquiri, sane British colonials out in
Shanghai's International Settlement knew and valued Bacardi rum
for what it was-a rum brandy, mellowed and redistilled and aged •
. . . Now at I I A.M. those who can spare the time foregather for
Shanghai Bucks or whisky pegs-a habit very disastrous to productive
activity during the remainder of any business day, we learned. . . .
Take a big 16 oz collins glass, put in 3 cubes of ice, l tsp or 2 of sugar,
pour in 2 jiggers of Bacardi-White Seal or Gold Seal-and fill up
with good ginger ale. The improved Shanghai Buck adds the juice of
l green lime or Yi lemon, and uses grenadine instead of sugar, to get
the handsome colour. Personally we prefer stone bottle ginger beer to
ginger ale. It is a Jamaica Buck, or Barbados Buck, only using Ba-
cardi instead of dark rum, or blended rums ...

  WORDS to the LIQUID WISE No. XVIII, on the UNDENIABLE
  EXCELLENCE of a FINE DRY SHERRY, or SHERRY & BIT-
  TERS, instead of the PERPETUAL BARRAGE o~ COCKTAILS
    Here's 1 case where old Colonel E. Sifton Ponsonby-Fittich is per-
  fectly right-for the English appreciated sherry long before our war
  of independence, recognizing it as one of the truly civilized drinks en-
  joyed by mankind. But a word of caution: don't get a jug of local,
  sweet, last-month's sherry and expect any cultured results. Sherry
  should be properly aged, of the dry or drier type. Bitters are optional.
  ... We now offer a kernel of heresy which probably will cause many
  English to wish us harm: chill the sherry decanter if sherry and bitters
  are used. The sherry taste is just as fine, the whole thing more crisp
  and pungent. We even do it with sherry alone when using the drink
  for a pre-dinner appetizer, in warmer weather. . . . We feel, strictly,
  that sherry and bitters changes old sherry tradition.

THE WEST INDIAN SHRUB, from the BERMUDA FILES of ONE
WILKINSON, EsQUIRE, UNFORTUNATELY DECEASED, but WHo OWNED
CRYSTAL CAVE, & THINGS DoWN THERE in BERMUDA, & WHo WAs
VERY CouRTEOUS & KIND to Us on OuR FrnsT TRIP to that ENCHANTED
SMALL ISLAND
  This mild and cooling summer beverage may be made in the more

                                  • 123 •
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

  northern climates out of wild cherries, tame cherries-all except the
  acid red pie cherry type-strawberries, blackberries, raspberries; al-
 most any flavourful, fairly tart fruit will do. And the same goes for the
 tropics, of course. Mixed with ice and cool sweet water in a tall thin
 glass this Shrub recalls the days of bronze-faced planters seated on
 their galleries overlooking green seas of sugar cane; rice, indigo, or
 tobacco. It is an especial relief to the man who is wearied of the con-
 stant small hammer blows of more insistent, highly proofed, bever-
 ages. Incidentally we list a "Temperance" Shrub in some detail on
Page 149·
    We need a big double boiler, or better still, an earthenware pot big
enough to hold all the fruit; and another pot big enough to hold pot
Number I. • . . Extract the juice by putting the fruit in the upper
container, which stands in the boiling water of the lower vessel.
Dredge with sugar and add a stick or 2 of cinnamon. Simmer until
juice~ are pretty well extracted from fruit, then strain through a jelly
cloth. Add enough gomme syrup to suit taste, and make fairly sweet.
Stand in a chilled place until sediment settles out, rack off through
another .filtering process and add 4 oz-Yz cup-of cognac for each
l qt bottle of the clear juice. Cork well, seal with rosin or paraffin, or
wax-then store in a cool place of even temperature. Good to use at
any time now.... This fruit juice may be clarified or "fined" by the
ancient and proper Portuguese method on Page 159·


THE SMILE
  Antoine, in New Orleans, has through many years been a gathering
place of people who possess good tastes of varying sorts. This spe-
cialty of his sometimes known as Antoine's Smile, is simple to make,
~e only requirement being that the apple brandy be not "Jersey
lightning" six months in wood, but aged, and at least five years old-
and the older the finer, of course.

Aged apple brandy, or applejack,      Lime, juice Yz small; or X lemon
   l pony                             Grenadine, l dash
                                   124.
                  THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

   This is simply a drier and better version of the old Jack Rose, which
allows half a pony grenadine to a jigger apple brandy and juice of a
lemon, and is the precise shade of the famous jacqueminot rose.


WILSON'S SOUTH CAMP ROAD COCKTAIL, from JAMAICA,
B.W.I. via ToM DAVIN
   As usual with Davin, his words are worth a quote.
   "If you include drinks with your eats here is my donation-which
I captured in Jamaica enroute to Haiti, last winter. If you have no
friend who drinks any good lawye.r can prove it to be a fruit cock-
tail, even to the eyes of your very own Aunt Silica Fittichl Even your
friend Hemingway, with his Anis del Mono-besotted tonsils will not
be able to taste the ingredients. Try it yourself, but not more than
two-and I mean that. . . . It was invented by a retired British army
man-and how can England have any army when all her princely
chaps are 'retired'-who lives in~_ or rather outside of, Kingston, named
Wilson. His main vocation seems to be concocting odd beverages, and
if this is any sample he's a wizard. Somehow this escaped his secret
archives because he turned the formula over to the head barman at
the South Camp Road Hostelry when dining some friends there .
 . . . As you-all say in Florida: 'Heah-tiz!'

Dry gin, 2 jiggers                 Absinthe, or Pernod Veritas, Yz
Grand marnier, Yi pony                 pony
Juice of large lime                Egg, white, 1, fresh as can be
Dash angostura, dash orange        Grenadine, to taste; about Yz tsp
    bitters                        Sugar or gomme syrup, about 2
French vermouth, 2 jiggers             tsp, to taste
             ,,
  "Shake with lots of cracked ice and pour into a large saucer cham-
pagne glass capable ·of holding some six ounces of T.N.T.
  "Now," continues Editor Davin, "report me this when ye can.
Maybe I had a touch o' sun when I tried it last!"
  P.S. Orange cura~ao can substitute for grand marnier; anis del

                                • 125 •
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

mono could pinch hit for the absinthe, or ojen-the Spanish absinthe
-would also work, lacking the real Swiss product.

THE RANGOON STAR RUBY, a WoNDERFUL & STIMULATING
CocKTAIL from LoWER-BURMAH
   In 1926 we disembarked in Burmah from a round-the-world ship,
and spent several days there before hopping off to Calcutta in a little
"Bibby" boat carrying a mess of Mohammedan pilgrims headed for
Mecca as deck passengers, and who did all their own cooking right
down there in plain sight. In Rangoon we joined up with several
fulk in the Strand bar of evenings to chin about the romantic Manda-
lay country far up the Irrawaddy River, and to talk over gems with
Hamid and his ,brother from Colombo and Bombay, and to acquire
a really fine zircon for someone else and a set of star sapphire dress
studs for oursel( One American headed out on leave from certain ruby
mining operations up-country told us he had invented himself a
drink that everyon~ up at headquarters liked so well he was going to
shout it to the world so that no man might be denied its virtues. He
popped behind the bar before we could say "knife" and whipped up
the following mixture which, due to its colour, he had christened the
Star Ruby.
  Take 1 jigger of good cognac, Yz pony of cherry brandy, Yz pony of
French vermouth, 2 dashes each of orange bitters and lemon phos-
phate, then for added flavour 1 tsp of kirsch, or Yz tsp of maraschino.
Shake with finely cracked ice, pour into a wine glass leaving a little
ice floating, and let fall 6 drops of grenadine in the center of this
chilly expanse for the ruby colour touch.

SUNDAY VESPERS, from the REPERTOIRE of an AMERICAN OFFI-
CIAL with PARAMOUNT FILMS WHo DWELLS near QuEEN ANNE's GATE
LONDON
  Here's a gentle thought for that long quiet, house-bound afternoon,
just prior to evening services, when both the spiritual and bodily
reservoirs need aiding and abetting. It should be served, in summer,

                                . 126 .
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

very cold, frappeed briefly with not-too-fine ice. Pax vobiscum, my
good fellow. We met this aid to mankind in 1932.
Cognac, 1 jigger                      Egg, I
Black coffee, 1 pony                  Sugar, barspoon
Heavy cream , 2 jiggers               Clove and nutmeg, dash each, on
Port, 1 pony                              top
  It should be served in some tall, stemmed glass.

NOTES on DRINKS with a TEQUILA BASE, & NATIVE to MEx1co
   Tequila, along with Pulque and Mescal, make up the three na-
tional beverages. Pulque is the universal drink, mainly for the average
person of average position. It is the fermented sap of the Maguey
plant-which we call a century plant-and made by chopping out the
central bud, or flower stalk so that the sap can collect in the scooped
out heart of the plant itself. . . . Pulque is about as strong as beer,
tastes like a combination of sour cider and whatever fermented fruit
juice happens to be around, and smells-as has been told-faintly like
a mildewed donkey. Needless to _say it is not universally consumed
by others than the hardy race in the land of its conception.
   Mescal is the distilled fermented juice of the Agave or Maguey
plant. The plant is dug up, leaves amputated and roasted. The juice is
then extracted in a press, fermented and distilled. It is the same colour
as our corn likker, has the same kick, plus an odd flavour which can-
not be described.
  Tequila is the finest of these three, being the distilled fermented
juice of the Zotol Maguey plant, which grows almost entirely in the
State of Jalisco. Properly aged it is a spirit of definite merit. It is very
potent, colourless also, and has a strange exotic flavour which-like
Holland gin-is 'an acquired taste.
  The upstanding Mexican takes his tequila like our prohibition
"Swiss Itch": First a s~~k of a quartered lemon, then the ip~nch of
salt, then the tossed off pgger or pony of spirit. This process not only
being a definite menace to the gullet and possible fire risk through

                                  • 127 •
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

lighted matches, we began going on a still hunt for some way to mix
tequila. We were greeted with raised eyebrows, expressions of com-
miseration for waning sanity, open distrust. It was about the same
situation which would parallel snooping about Paris for ways to di-
lute champagne fine, or aged brandy. It took several hundred miles
of wandering about the surrounding towns and mountains before we
struck our first evidence of cooperation-at the little corner place of
one eminent lady known affectionately as Bertita, on the Cathedral
Square of utterly lovely Taxco-pronounced "toss-ko."
   What Bertita had done after long experimentation was to put in
m~e lime juice and less sweet than we. As we said, tequila is an
acquired taste, try it sometime. . . . Remember small ice makes the
drink very cold, which improves the taste by taking some of the ac-
cent off tequila. Bertita's Special is listed 2d receipt below.


OUR OWN TEQUILA COCKTAIL, ARMILLITA CHICO
  Armillita is the idol of Mexico, their foremost, most finished, most
graceful, most dramatic bullfighter. His work with the cape, ban-
derillas, and sword rank him with the Spanish immortals of all time.
He gets fifteen hundred dollars for a Sunday afternoon's performance,
Hollywood please notice. Mexicans are beginning to rank him with
Spain's Juan Belmonte whose life, by Allen Villiers, has just been
published.
  In dallying with tequila in the bosom of our own bar we finally set
upon this formula as being worthwhile, and promptly dedicated it, a
standing toast with Sydney Franklin by our side, to Armillita Chico.
Tequila, 3 jiggers
                                                             .
                                         Orange flower water, 2 dashes
Limes, strained juice, 2                 Grenadine, dash, for colour
 · Fill electric shaker with all the finely shaved ice this amount will
cover, frappe well, serve through a sieve, shaking to make the frappe
stand up in a brief rosy, temporary cone. When this subsides drink to
Armillita Chico, the idol of Mexico .

                                . 128.
                  THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

TEQUILA SPECIAL, a la BERT/TA, GARNERED, among other
THINGS, in LoVELY TAxco, in FEBRUARY of 1937
   This is a shocker from the place of Bertita, across from the cathedral
steps in Taxco, already mentioned. It is a cooler as well and Americans
will find it very unusual. Take 2 ponies of good tequila, the juice of
1 lime, 1 tsp sugar and 2 dashes of orange bitters. Stir in a collins glass
with lots of small ice, then fill with club soda. No garnish except
crushed halves of the lime.

TEQUILA por MI AMANTE, or TEQUILA for MY BELOVED; MExrco
CITY, 1937
  This is a prepared beverage requiring patience and from three to
four weeks.
Tequila, 1 pint                    Ripe strawberries, 1 qt, cut in halves
   Wash and stem the berries, put into an airtight jar or bottle, pour
on enough tequila to cover. Shut tightly and stand for at least twenty-
one days. Strain. . . . This berry process extracts some of the raw
taste, adds a rosy dawn touch. Our.Mexican drinks it straight always.
We opine that handled in the same way as sloe gin, discoveries would
be made. . . . Other fruit like wild cherries, blackberries, and so on
could be tried.

TIGER'S MILK, what IT Is, & WHY; DATED from PEKING, APRIL
1931
  We honestly consider this one of the most amazing and delicious
building-up drinks we've ever known. That year we didn't go from
Fusan to Seoul, Korea, to Mukden and then down to Peking, be-
cause the JapanesM puppet makers had just started slamming the door,
but we did get there on the crack blue train via Tientsin, from
Chingwangtao. Yes, we coasted in through the break in the huge
breath-taking battlements of the Tartar Wall, to the station by the
Water Gate-so vital to the Allies during the Boxer Siege of the
Legations in 1900.

                                 . 129 .
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

   We got that strange lift under the heart all men get when they step
from the world we know straight back into the heart of a city dating
for thousands of years. . . . Then, later, we met Gerber, manager of
the Wagons-Lits on Legation Street, and next afternoon we went out
and watched him exercise his "griffin" polo ponies-those short,
stocky, hairy, half-wild little horses brought down from the northern
plains by Larsen of Mongolia. Ponies, Gerber told us, were bought at
auction, unclipped and untried, so that everyone-millionaire and
lowly civilian alike-might play polo without needing a fortune to
finance his string. Actually regulation polo ponies are banned from
the sport ii.!._Peking. Then we found it quite chill after sunset, and we
went back to Gerber's snug bar at the Wagons-Lits, and he ordered
his Chino to mix a brace of Tiger's Milks-directly from the receipt
left with him by a chap named Seaholm some time before, and who
was related to the King of Sweden allegedly; and the receipt itself
unchanged one iota. They called it Tiger's Milk, as Seaholm had, and
it has since gone forth and become gradually recognized all over the
world-either in original form or slightly changed to suit local
preferences.
   The main thing in No. I: Never use anything but really good aged
brandy, champagne fine, not the usual cognac. The latter doesn't do
the job properly.

TIGER'S MILK No. I, from the GERBER-SEAHOLM FoRMULA, PEKING,
1931
   Command 2Yz jiggers old liqueur brandy, or champagne fine, and
put this in a shaker. Add l to 2 tsp of sugar or grenadine, to taste, Yz
cup of heavy cream and Yz cup of milk-nothing else; no trimmings.
Shake with several big pieces of ice and strain into a goblet. A dash of
cinnamon or nutmeg is optional, but not originally authentic. We
came, we saw, we drank. And later we imported a certain black eyed
Russian peril, managed 1 for her; and we recall her first remark in
syllables slightly husky, wholly charming, the slightly accented Eng-
lish slick as cream. "And do you now, mah frrrrahn, thees dreenk eet
               THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

iss-how shall I say eet?-'food, dreenk, and lodging,' all at zee same
tam!" . . . True, ma soeur, true!
TIGER'S MILK No. II, from the BAR BooK of a TINY SMILING ANNA-
MESE BAR-BoY at the PHYA-THAI PALACE, BANGKOK, SIAM, in the YEAR
1932 . . . TIGER's MILK No. III is on PAGE 90
   We had come in from a day around town-looking at a sleeping
Buddha 90 feet or so long, at temples and wats searching upward to
the sun; at Wat Arun, gleaming with porcelain insets, brilliant butter-
fly-hued tiles, at the temple of the Emerald Buddha, the Wat Phra-
Keo, with the sacred Gautama himself carved from a single emerald
so runneth the tale-but green jasper to us-some 60 centimeters
high, and with 3 changes of jewel and gold cloth clothing, to keep him
comfortable during the rainy, the cold and the hot seasons. We were
wearied of Buddha and Yagas, or guardian demons; we were tired of
sightseeing altogether and wanted to rest and relax before going to
the Royal Dancers in the-of all ideas!-Roman Garden of the Phya-
Thai Palace that gala night. We wanted something to forget our
weary insteps, or sun-toasted eyeballs, before freshening up and chang-
ing for evening. We asked, through an inte.r.preter of sorts, if the bar-
boy might have anything possible to make a Tiger's Milk. The answer
was that, evidently, the Gerber-Seaholm idea had penetrated there
too, authorized by some hardy and -careless soul like ourself with
medical knowledge enough to realize that enough alcohol will
strangle the microbes even in Siamese milk and cream-which is a
chancey statement we might say. The Bacardi lends a typical British
modification, a twist. . . . Old brandy l Yz jiggers, Bacardi Gold Seal
the same; Yz cup each of thick cream and milk, then sweeten to taste.
Shake vigorously for at least Yz minute with big lumps of ice and
serve in a goblet. Dust  w:;? nutmeg, or ground mace, or cinnamon.

THE IMPROVED TURF COCKTAIL No. I, a MoDIFICATION of
OuR OWN from DmTY DrcK's" NAssAu, B.1., 1937
  We first sampled this drink in Nassau quite some time back, hav-1
ing flown over Pan-American Airways, after the official tourist season

                                 • 131 •
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

was finished, with a 6-year bride and 4 friends, to do a bit of sailing
and swimming and basking on undiscovered white sand beaches by
vitriol blue coral water that is clearer than anywhere else in the whole
universe. A gentleman of colour suggested this as a dry, appetizing
taste-thrill at Dirty Dick's, and found it to be merely Holland gin and
vermouth-nothing else except Angostura-in a 2 to r ratio. . . .
After a bit of later experimentation on self and friends we discovered
that addition of Yz a green lime-strained juice-and Yz tsp of grena-
dine or bar sugar works miracles with this drink.

TURF COCKTAIL No. II, from the TAJ MAHAL HoTEL, on APoLLO
BUNDA R, in BoMBAY, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 14th, 1931, to BE ExAcr;
SERVED after the RuNNING of the MAHARAJAH of RAJPIPLA GoLD CuP
at the WESTERN INDIA TuRF CLUB, LTD.
  We had won all of sixty-seven rupees on this gold-cup, 23,000-rupees
race, and were feeling very horsy and turfy, and tired of the eternal
chotapegs-jyst plain Scotch and not-too-cold soda, without ice, of the
last few days-and were open for suggestions. G. J. Mack, local
Manager for General Motors Export, suggested a Turf Cocktail, of a
recognized mix, and after a barrage of Hindustani this resulted, much
to everyone's amazement: r jigger of dry gin, I pony of French ver-
mouth, r tsp of absinthe, or Pernod Veritas; donate r tsp of mara-
schino and a dash of orange or Abbots bitters. Stir in a bar glass like a
Martini and serve in a Manhattan glass, ungarnished.

TURF COCKTAIL No. III, from the HAVANA CouNTRY CwB,
WINTER of 1930
  This is virtually the same as No. II, only using old Tom gin for a
base, orange bitters, and everything else the same.

 THE VIRGIN'S PRAYER, a MEMORY from VERSAILLES, in the
 SUMMER of 1926
   That summer when we were living in Paris, we met many people
 across the street from our own domicile, in Harry's American Bar-
 already a happy memory to countless Americans. And one night we

                                 . 132 .
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

were there with a person not apt to mention, listening to Tommy Ly-
 man sing Montmartre Rose, and wondering what we were going to
 do next day, when a stalwart young chap barged up and invited him-
self to our table-a practice which we are not likely to view with any
great amount of enthusiasm in Paris, Paraguay or Patagonia.
   But this time it was all right. His name was O'Malley and he had a
 Cadillac 8, and after the war he had married him a French wife who
got lonesome when he took her to Union City, New Jersey-and we
don't have to be French to be thatl-and so he had brought her back
 to France, Cadillac and all. And why the hell did I spend 12 dollars
a day to Franco-Belgique tours for a motor car when I could hire his
for 9 or less. Certainly, why? . . . Well, O'Malley not only had a
 Cadillac 8 and a French wife, but he knew all 16 of the current crop
of Tiller girls living in their dormitory with a matron and chaperones
and all, over in Montmartre. But unless they had been misbehaving
and were under censure, they were all allowed nights out until 12
midnight, so we started at the end of the line and went along, count-
ing off from right to left; and what dancing partners; what grand
fun they were! Well, one afternoon we and O'Malley and our current
assignment of Tiller were out at Versailles absorbing French history,
then toward evening we stopped at a big sort of a chateau turned into
a restaurant-hotel not too far from the great Palace, for a little liquid
nourishment. And while we were waiting they brought us a bowl of
big red ripe cherries in cracked ice, and O'Malley had an idea. "I
know," he said, holding up a cherry pit, "I'll invent a drink."
   Now a gentleman from Union City, New Jersey, who had a French
wife and a Cadillac 8, in Paris, and who hired out to Franco-Belgique
tours yet also hired out for less to us, was shock enough for any one
stay in Paris; but one who further invented drinks, made us slightly
dizzy. "Of course. Sure. Invent one," we added with all the conviction
we feel when we see cinemas of Senators kissing babies.
   "Celeste's old man work~ at the Florida. Her old man invents dr~nks
too. We invent drinks together," he explained. Celeste was O'Malley's
wife, of course. "We invent swell drinks."

                                 • 1 33 •
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

    So O'Malley asked for a nutcracker in his Union City, New Jersey,
 French, and bottles of things, and a shaker and a bowl of ice, and the
 maitre-d'hotel had it fetched with a suspicious but he'll-pay-beaucoup-
 for-his-fun gleam in his agate eyes, and O'Malley mixed. He first
 cracked 4 cherry pits with that darned nutcracker and dropped them
in a cocktail glass. Then he put rYz jiggers of k_irsch, r pony of cherry
 brandy, r tsp of maraschino, into the shaker, and shook it with the
ice. Then he poured it onto the broken pits, stirred it for a second to
let the aromatic bitter odour and taste penetrate the drink, then
handed it to me. And it was good.
   "T-hat, Pal,"-O'Malley was the soul of companionship for a chauf-
feur-companion, we might state--"is a swell drink, see? That drink
has what it takes-irpagination, see? That's it, imagination. No drink
is worth a damn without imagination. It doesn't take any imagination
to just say 'Scotchansoda,' now does it? It's good enough to give
Celeste's old man, and if it's good enough for that it's plenty good
enough for a name. It must be garnished with 2 red cherries, Eh? 2;
sure! ... Let's name it the Virgin's Prayer. Eh? What do you think,
Esle?" Esle was our Miss Tiller du jour. Esle was just eighteen, with
curly brown hair and brown eyes, and breakfast ankles. She was very
English, very sane, very passionate. She looked at him calmly. She
sipped the drink.
   "I don't trust the Irish, O'Malley," she said evenly; "or their names."
 · · . "Garfon, scotchansoda," she said to the hovering waiter.
    Now of course we don't expect that when our most dutiful readers
are faced with a bowl of cherries they will all have nutcrackers within
 ordering distance. Or Tiller girls. But if they have, and the spirit of
 adventure is not dead, they may try this pungent drink. Try an
 O'Malley Virgin's Prayer. It really is a sound cocktail, and worthy to
 be known among all men.

VANILLA PUNCH, another RECEIPT from the PLANTATION FILES
of ONE CLYMER BROOKE, MENTIONED ELSEWHERE in this WoRK
  Brooke was the one who fell in love with Tahiti, and left the round-

                                 • 1   34.
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

the-world cruise of the schooner CHANCE, along with Dodd and
the rest of their Yale outfit, and whose adventures are neatly told in
From Great D ipper to Southern Cross. Well, Brooke ended up hob-
nobbing with princesses on Moorea, owning some sort of a vanilla
plantation. We met him out of Yoko, bound for Hawaii in 1931 when
he was bound hack to the states like a sea-going Lochinvar to marry
him a bride. . . . Salut Clymer.
  Take a bar glass and fill it with shaved or very finely cracked ice,
add 2 tsp of fresh strained lime juice, the same of yellow cura<rao, and
l tbsp of grenadine. Now turn in 2 jiggers of cognac, and either a
scant Yz pony of vanilla extract, or l full pony of Creme de Van ille.
Stir, turn ice and all into a tall thin glass or goblet, garnish with sticks
of fresh ripe pineapple, a cherry or 2, and a sprig of something to
brighten up attractively. This is fairly sweet, so be sure and step up the
lime juice if a drier drink is wanted.


THE HARVARD VERITA.S, CONTRIBUTED by FREDERICK A. R.
THOMPSON, at the TIME MANAGING EDITOR of COMMONWEAL, a
CATHOLIC INTERNATIONAL WEEKLY -
   This drink is famous enough al_~mg the Charles River, and espe-
cially at the Harvard Club in New York, and good enough in its own
right to be listed here. It is a sort of emancipated Between the Sheets,
only with currant flavouring. Take l pony each of dry gin, cointreau
and strained lemon-or lime, better-juice. Shake well with finely
cracked ice, strain into a Bute cocktail glass with a stem, and pour in
2 tbsp of creme de cassis for trimming.



COCKTAIL au VI COMTE de MAUDUIT, BEING a LOVELY THING
MADE of RosE BRANDY
  Vicomte de Mauduit is one of Europe's most exacting gourmets
and his volume The V ir;omte in the Kitchen is one of the; post
charming volumes on food and wine ever printed in the English lan-
guage. His knowledge of wines is thoroughgoing, but even though

                                  . 135 •
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

tartly French, his mental processes are still agile and cosmopolitan
enough to grant brief space to decent cocktails. We have taken pains
to test out this, his own especial origination, and can attest it to be one
of the most delicate and palate tickling amateur originations we have
ever met. In this one case we have taken the liberty of reprinting an-
other's own formula, in the spirit of pleasant drinking and gentle liv-
ing; and with a bow of thanks to Monsieur le Vicomte.
   Take r pony each of dry gin, French dry vermouth and rose
brandy-another original formula of the Vicomte's and which we
also note with grateful acknowledgment on Page 155-and put in a
bar glass. Stir with several fairly large lumps of ice and strain into a
Manhattan glass. Garnish with a candied pink rose petal carefully
floated on top. A delicate, original cocktail indeed.


THE OLD WALDORF'S LAST, INVENTED-so RuNNETH the TALE
-as the LAST ORIGINAL. CocKTAIL to CoME from the MELLOW OLD
W ALDORF BAR- at FIFTH AVENUE & 34th STREET
  This is not, strictly, an exotic. It is a good ladies' drink under any
condition, and any spirituous combination to put the period to those
grand old days when titanic, two-fisted Wall Streeters and important
folk from all over the world used to stand 6 or 8 deep before mahogany
during the 5 to 8 P.M. cocktail "hour," is well worthy of inclusion on
any list of international receipts. . . . Take r pony each of dry gin,
orange curacrao and heavy cream. Shake and strain into a Manhattan
glass. That is all.


THE WAXMAN SPECIAL COCKTAIL, which WE AssuME to
BE after the ORIGINAL SPECIFICATION of PERCY WAXMAN, AssocIATE
EDITOR of COSMOPOLITAN Magazine
   We .disc?vered this one last spring when this volume first began
~mergmg mto final, concise form. Oddly enough we stumbled over
it at the lovely pavilion-bar at the Palm Beach Colony, which proved
that the true grapevine telegraph must be at work telling the news of
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

its worth, from New York to there. . . . Take 1 pony each of old
Tom gin, Italian vermouth and decent applejack. Shake briskly with
finely cracked ice, strain into a Manhattan glass, and with a few lumps
left floating contribute Yz pony of yellow chartreuse at the last. This
final touch is what sets it apart from its fellows; and, of course, the
applejack flavour too.


Le RAT BLANC, or WHITE RAT, a LEFT BANK ToucH, SAMPLED
in PARIS at the URGING of a FRIEND
   This is a stout and pungent thing, so be wary of absorbing it in too
ambitious quantity or we cannot be responsible for any subsequent
inclination or action! . . . To 1 jigger of absinthe add Yz pony of
anis del mono, or lacking this, anisette. Shake with very fine ice like
a frappe, and serve in a Manhattan glass, leaving a trifle of the ice still
in the finished drink. No garnish, please.

THE IMMORTAL ZAZARAC COCKTAIL, which TAKES us
BACK MANY YEARS to the OLD DAYS before the DRoUTH, & to NEw
ORLEANS
   This is the famous original from _the Zazarac Bar. Since France
outlawed absinthe much of the world's best was made by French
Creole New Orleans. The other main essential is to use decent bour-
bon whisky. There still is a great deal of young blended whisky
masquerading as bourbon, here in these United States. . . . Put 1
jigger of bourbon into a shaker, toss in Yz tsp of sugar, add 1 tsp of
Italian vermouth and the same of absinthe, or lacking this, Pernod
Veritas. Contribute 2 or 3 good dashes of Peychaud's bitters-now
obtainable in all big towns-shake with cracked ice and serve in an
Old Fashioned cocktf.Ul glass topped with a little soda, and end up
with a twist of lemon or orange peel on top. . . . It is also made by
mixing in the glass its.elf, just .like an Old Fas~ioned, using Yz lump
of sugar, saturating this with bitters, and muddling well before add~ng
ice and spirits.

                                  • 1   37 .
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

THE ZAMBOANGA "ZEINIE" COCKTAIL, another PALATE-
TwisTER from the LAND where the MONKEYS HAVE No TAILS
   This drink found its way down through the Islands to Mindanao
from Manila, and we found it in the little Overseas Club standing
high above the milk-warm waters of the Sulu Sea, on the suggestion
of a new friend, just met; and while perusing the first edition of that
Norm Anthony-George Delacorte opus Ballyhoo, which after having
passed from hand to hand through most of the U.S. Army in the
Islands from Colonels down was slightly tattered, but still placed in
a rack of honour.
Cognac, 1 jigger                      Fresh pineapple syrup, 3 dashes
Maraschino, 1 tsp                     Angostura, 3 dashes
Lime, juice, Yz ~                     Twist lime peel
  Shake well with shaved ice, letting some of ice go into glass; twist
some of the peel on _top to extract oil, and add one olive. Use a Man-
hattan glass. . . . Pineapple syrup same as used at soda fountains.

AN EXOTIC COCONUT-COGNAC COCKTAIL from CAP
HAIT/EN, REPUBLIC de HAITI, and which Is CALLED the
ZOMBIE
  Any one who knows his Haiti and his Vaudou knows what a
Zombie is; and for those who don't, a Zombie is merely a departed
brother who, for reasons not generally attractive, has been called back
from the Spirit World, labours without pay, without food, without
complaint, in a weird sort of spirit bondage. . . . We have just helped
"spring" an artist friend, Christopher Clark, from a five months' stay
in Cap Haitien, where he had been soaking up material and madly
painting the unbelievable scenery and even more unbelievable people
of Haiti, as a follow-up to the wave of acclaim which greeted his The
Crapshooters, in last year's American Art Exhibit at Rockefeller Cen-
ter, and we fetched him via Pan American to do a mural for us.
   Chris brought back a long list of amazing cookery receipts, too late
for this volume, but we are squeezing in this Zombie Cocktail, he
               THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

claiming that it will put the spirits to work for you, but whether they
or ourselves, are in bondage, is something for each man to decide
according to occasion and the needs thereo(
Enriched coconut milk, see be-           Maraschino, 2 ponies
    low, I cup or so                     Angostura, 2 or 3 dashes
Cognac, 3 jiggers                        Very finely cracked or shaved ice
   Put in shaker with lots of very finely cracked ice, shake hard and
turn ice and all-a la Daiquiri-into small, chilled goblets. . . . An-
other variation, and a much better flavoured one we find, is found
by using only two jiggers cognac, and one jigger old Haitian-or other
medium dark-rum.
   Enriched coconut milk: Get a ripe coconut anywhere. Bore two
holes in eyes and drain out water into saucepan-being careful to
strain out fibres or bits of shell. . . . Crack open nut, peel off brown
outer skin from kernel, and either grate, grind, or cut up fine and add
to water. . . . Fetch to a simmer for five minutes. Put through a fine
cloth, squeezing out the final rich cream by hand. Ripe fresh coconuts
can be had in most good grocery stores these days. . . . Those pos-
sessing The Mixer will save an increaible amount of time by cutting
up kernel, with brown part unremoved, into the top container of The
Mixer; turn in the coconut juice. Reduce to a pulp at high speed for r
minute, then rub through a very fine sieve, or strain through several
thicknesses of cloth.

AN EVEN ONE DOZEN TEMPERANCE DELIGHTS, which
after ALL ls nearly Two WEEKS' SUPPLY
NoT ALL intelligent folk approve or militantly disapprove of spiritu-
ous beverage. There simply happen to be quite a few rational souls
who don't care for ::tnything containing alcohol. Being half of Quaker
stock we have noted such phenomena right in our own family. Also
there are beverages for the  extremely young.
  This being the case, and refreshments are indicated, what t~ 1serve
besides tea, coffee, milk or water? To our own rough and unpre-

                                • 1   39 .
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

dictable mind there is nothing under heaven more discouraging than
weak lemonade, once past the age of ro--except pink, and at circuses.
How often in our own history have we seen guests gaze skyward and
pray for a sign so that dear old Aunt Trilby Fittich wouldn't serve
them cookies and lemonade! Therefore, sharply aware of this prob-
lem from our own case, we have gone to considerable effort in snup-
ping these selected Temperance Delights. We now feel that we can
face a P.T.A. meeting unafraid, look a strawberry social in the teeth
without bowing our head in abject and citric shame.
   Beside our own palm-shrouded cornerstone there is nothing under
heaven's sweet canopy so baffling as suddenly being confronted with
test of producing some non-alcoholic beverage claiming credit for
anything but the usual bellywash of lemon, orange, sugar and ice.
This is no laugrung matter, either. This sort of zero hour may pop
up to haunt us at any unexpected moment; and usually when brains
are bled white, scraping an all-time low, and showing all the origi-
nality of stuffing for a kapok windowseat pad. Yes, it may easily be a
neighbouring daughter's 6th birthday, or Aunt Deleria Fittich de-
scending from Clebbett City in the worst hot spell since '83. And to
our way of thinking there still never has been an excusable lemonade
except pink, and at circuses!
  These mild-mannered coolers come from here and there around the
world, and the bare fact of presenting them in a drinking volume of
our own conception makes us feel very fine, and remote and pure and
Worth while, for a change.

THE ANGOSTURA FIZZ, sometimes CALLED the TRINIDAD Fizz,
BEING a RECEIPT GLEANED from ONE of OuR FRIENDS PILOTING the
BIG BRAZILIAN CLIPPER from HERE to TRINIDAD & Rrn & on SOUTH
to "B. A."
   This mild fizz is again like initial olive sampling; either it suits or it
doesn't, and subsequent trials often show sudden shift to appreciation.
It is a well-known stomachic along the humid shores of Trinidad, in
British Guiana; wherever the climate is hot and the humidity high,
                         THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

         and stomachs stage sit-down strikes and view all thought of food-
         present or future-with entire lack of enthusiasm. Further than this,
         the cinchona bark elixir in the Angostura, the other herbs and valuable
         simples, are a definite first line defense against malaria and other
         amoebic fevers-especially in warding off their after effect in later
         months when all actual peril is past.
            Take 1 pony of Angostura bitters, add r tsp of sugar or grenadine,
         the juice of Yi lemon or I lime, the white of I egg and I tbsp of thick
         cream-or slightly less. Shake with cracked ice like a cocktail, turn
         into a goblet and fill to suit individual taste with club soda, seltzer,
         vichy, or whatever lures the mind. Vary the sweet also, to suit taste. It
         is a very original, cooling drink as well as a valuable tonic to those
         dwelling in hot countries. Garnish with sticks of ripe fresh pineapple,
         always.
         CASSIS & SODA, the OLD CLASSIC from anyWHERE in FRANCE
            This is well known to all traveling Americans nowadays but is
         important enough to list for those who are merely contemplating a
         trip abroad. As we have already explained, cassis is the syrup and
         juice made from black French cur~nts .... Take from I to 2 jiggers
         of cassis, chill as above, turn into a tumbler or goblet with ice and fill
         to taste with soda; or merely mix like an ordinary highball, directly
         in the glass without shaking first. Angostura is optional. It is very
         refreshing in hot weather, also.
         THE PANAMA "MOCK DAISY" CRUSTA, from CRISTOBAL at
         the ATLANTIC END of the PANAMA CANAL ZoNE, which ODDLY ENOUGH
         Is AcTUALLY WEST of the PACIFIC END at BALBOA
            Take the juice of 2 limes and put into a tumbler or goblet with fine
         ice, the crystal having been rubbed first with the lime shells and the
         lip dipped in powdered sugar, allowing all possible to cling for about
         Yi" down the side. Now add r pony of raspberry syrup, fill glass with
         enough club soda to s~it taste, and float on Yi to I tsp of grenadine.
         Garnish with stick of ripe pineapple, 2 or 3 ripe raspberries frbzen in
         ice cubes; a 'sprig of green mint .

                                          • 141 •




•Y,...
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

   EXPLODED old ALEWIVES' TALES No. II, PLEADING that
   JUST BECAUSE PAST TEMPERANCE DRINKS HA VE usu-
   ally BEEN UNATTRACTIVE & UNGARNISHED, this SIN
   SHOULD NOT PREVAIL in MODERN TIMES
      Again we urge readers to consider that any drink that intrigues the
  eye has already half conquered. Ice cubes may be tinted in a second
   to afford any desired shade; sprigs of green mint, cherries, straw-
  berries, raspberries, and other fresh or candied fruits; rose and violet
  petals-au nature/le or candied, anything pretty the heart desires may
  quickly be frozen into each cube. The variety is limited solely by the
  imagination . . . . To suspend fruits in center of cube-freeze first
  with tray half full; then center up fruits, add water to fill tray full,
  and freeze again. If garnish is desired on top of cubes, fill tray almost
  full, freeze; tee up fruit and freeze again after adding a tiny bit of
  water.
     To our mind a sw!;et temperance drink has to look mighty, mighty
  pretty to be intriguing. This may also apply to other citizens con-
  fronted with spirituous aridity at any current function!

GENERAL J ..K. L. HARKRIDER'S FAMOUS STONE BOTTLE GINGER
BEER No. I, a FINE TIME-TESTED RECEIPT for this AROMATIC BEVERAGE
so EssENTIAL in JAMAICA & SHANGHAI BucKs, in SINGAPORE RAFFLES
GIN SLINGS, as WELL as a TASTY CooLER in hs OWN TEMPERATE
RIGHT, FouND in LONDON SUMMER of 1932
  This is one of the oldest temperance beverage receipts we own, and
dates well back into Georgian days in rural England, Circa 1766. To
our way of thinking a rich ginger beer is to average ginger ale as
Napoleon brandy is to Nawth Ca'lina white mule. Stone bottles may
be ordered in for us by the country grocer, on a few days' notice, and
in big towns we may find "empties" in any good delicatessen or pro-
vision store. Of course this ginger beer may be bottled in glass, but
that too is like modernizing any mellowed and ancient custom, or
like a charming girl in sport slacks who wears high heels; for then
certain of the charm flies out the window, through needless incon-
sistency.
  Brief comparison of these two formulae shows that No. II, that of
the famous Dr. Pereira, employs honey and no yeast since . . . "The

                                  . 142.
               THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

Honey gives the Beverage a Peculiar Softness, and from not being
Fermented with Yeast, it is Less Violent when Opened, but requires
to be kept a Somewhat Longer Time before Use."
  General Harkrider's receipt calls for:

2Yi lbs of sugar                          2 oz of ginger root

Yi oz cream of tartar                     2   Yi gallons of boiling water
4 lemons, juice and rind                  2 tbsp fresh brewer's yeast


   Peel the lemons thin and put the cut up rind and strained juice in
an earthenware crock, together with the bruised ginger root, the
sugar and cream of tartar. Add the boiling water and when lukewarm
stir in the brewer's yeast. Cover with a cloth and let ferment until next
day. Now skim the yeast foam from the top, pour carefully through
several thicknesses of cheesecloth, being careful also not to agitate
the sediment in the crock. Put in stone bottles, thoroughly sterilized
in boiling water. Ready to use in 2 weeks or so. If no ginger root is
available add 1 tbsp of ground ginger to the hot water brew, or better
still 2 tbsp of tincture of Jamaica ginger;stir well, and taste. Then add
more ginger-ground or essence-I t~!:' at a time until it suits the
taste.
   The lemon juice and rind are what point up this receipt. Sugar also
may be stepped up slightly, to taste. This brew is enough to fill 3 doz
average stone bottles.


STONE BOTTLE GINGER BEER No. II, without YEAST, from
the FAMOUS RECEIPT of DR. PEREIRA on DIScussING DmT, and DATING
BACK WELL over HALF a CENTURY; & D1scoVERED by Us in LoNDoN,
SUMMER of 1932
  To our knowledge1this receipt dates back more than 6o years in
England, and has always been a favourite with home-brewers of their
own stone bottle ginger beer:It is very simple, an:d once again we sug-
gest using Jamaica ginger tincture or essence, if no ginger r~t 'is
available; and ground ginger if no liquid essence-gradually increas-

                                 • 1 43       •
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

ing the dose and stirring into the boiling hot water until it is pungent
enough to suit us.
5 lbs of sugar                             Yz cup of strained lemon juice
X lb, about Yz cup, of strained            5 oz of bruised ginger root
     honey                                 X white of l egg
4Yz gallons of water                       Cut up peel of the lemons
I scant tsp of lemon extract


  Boil the bruised ginger root in 3 qts of water for Yz hr; now add the
sugar, lemon juice, honey and peel. Turn in the rest of the water-
15 qts to be exact, or 3 % gals, and briskly boiling at the time, too. Let
cool gradually and when cold strain through several thicknesses of
cloth, then stir in the egg white to clarify; also the lemon extract. . . .
Let stand in a crock for 4 days, then bottle in sterilized stone bottles.
This receipt will keep for ~any months, and is enough for slightly
over 8 doz bottles.        .
  Personally we prefer receipt No. I, as it has more sparkle and life--
something essential to the drinks mentioned in this volume. We also
suggest adding 3 cups of honey to No. II, deducting that much sugar.

CARDINAL PUNCH, from the FILES of the LATE C.H. B. QuEN-
NELL, MENTIONED ELSEWHERE in these VoLUMEs, and GRACIOUSLY
CONTRIBUTED as a TYPICAL OLD-TIME ENGLISH RECEIPT from the
COUNTRY in & around BERKHAMSTEAD, HERTFORDSHIRE
  Take 2 qts of uncooked cranberries, and simmer them in just
enough water to cover until soft, together with the yellow peel of 2
lemons. When berries are very tender crush them up and strain
through a jelly cloth. Let cool and then add the juice of the 2 lemons,
4 c~ps of sugar, l pint of orange juice and about 2 qts of cold water.
Chill now, turn into a bowl containing a big single lump of ice, and
point up with 4 bottles of really good ginger ale or ginger beer. It is
an aromatic, pungent and tart drink, with a lovely colour.... It may
also be poured into glasses or goblets half filled with cracked ice, and
drunk through brightly coloured straws .

                                  • 1 44   .
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

MANDARIN PUNCH, a RECEIPT GARNERED away BACK in 1931,
from LADY BREDON, for a WHOLE GENERATION SocIAL DICTATOR of
PEKING'S LEGATION QUARTER SET
   There are rare occasions when a Peking host or hostess has to pro-
duce a temperance punch, and this species makes a welcome relief
for the usual. Actually this punch is more or less of an essence with
fruit juices, and is usually served exactly like raspberry vinegar-
poured to taste over cracked fine ice which almost fills the glass, with
water added to suit final ideas of strength and flavour.
   Melt out 2 cups of sugar with 2 doz whole cloves, 2 sticks of cinna-
mon bark, add Yi cup of water and cook for IO minutes; draw from
the fire and let cool. At that point stir in 2 cups of orange juice, and
about Yi cup of lemon or lime juice. Strain through cheesecloth, let
stand for Yi hr and mix in the following: 3 drops of spearmint oil,
buyable at any pharmacy, l tbsp finely chopped candied ginger root,
 r bunch of green mint tips snipped fine with scissors. Mix to taste with
cracked ice in tumblers or goblets; stirring with each spoonful so as
not to miss the solids in this syrup. Fill up with plain water or soda.

A DELICIOUS & PRETTY BEVERAGE MADE from FREsH
GRENADINES, or PoMEGRANATES, which WILL BE GooD NEws to
DWELLERS in all SUBTROPICAL or T~oPICAL CLIMATES; ONE from CITY
of JAIPUR, in INDIA
  The lovely roseate tint of pomegranate juice is what makes grena-
dine syrup so attractive in mixed drinks, and here is a secret from
Rajputana, and the city ruled by the Maharajah of Jaipur, mentioned
elsewhere in this volume. For centuries the pomegranate's coral-
coloured blossom and low-hanging, blushing fruit have been immor-
talized by poet and tale teller throughout the fantastic courts of Persia,
Arabia, Egypt, and fu ther East. Here from our window we can see
some Yz doz bushes bending low under their burden of fruits-yet
no one we have ever knowri in America-except ourself-ever does
anything about them, even though they seem to grow in every oth r
southern back yard! ... Simply break open the fruit, over a big bowl

                                 • 1 45 .
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

as the ruby coloured, pulp-bound seeds tend to fly this way and that
as the main rind breaks. Discard every bit of rind as it is bitter as gall,
and turn seeds into a fruit press or a potato ricer.
   Press out the magenta tinted juice, and mix with gomme syrup in
ratio of about 2 tbsp of the syrup to every cup of juice. Now pack
glasses with fine ice, pour in enough of this luscious fresh juice to fill,
stir in the juice of Yz a green lime. Garnish brightly with red cherries,
sticks of fresh pineapple, and serve with brigµtly tinted cellophane
straws. Again, sugar syrup as to taste; also the lime juice-depending
upon size of the latter fruits.

BLACK TEA PUNCH, from KANDY, in CEYLON, which REFRESHED
Us after a MoTOR DRIVE up through the MouNTAINs from CoLoMBo,
by WA y of the V ASTLy lNry.ru;sTING TROPICAL GARDENS at PERADEYNIA,
in the YEAR 1931
   Sir Tommy Lipton's chief bailiwick was out there in the incredibly
rich mountain soils of Ceylon, which many believe to have been the
Garden of Eden-even to an imprint of Adam's foot in gigantic size
on a table-topped mountain we have seen, winding up through the
steep hills. It is only natural, then, that being both British and near
some of the finest tea gardens in all the world, that this punch should
have been served for benefit of those who did not believe in alcoholic
liquids for inner decoration.
   Take 3 cups of quite strong, freshly brewed, black tea. Add l qt of
strained orange juice, 1 cup of strained lime or lemon juice, 2 cups of
raspberry syrup and 1 cup of crushed-fresh if possible-pineapple
pounded to a pulp in a mortar, or better still, in The Mixer. Add sugar,
 now, to taste; pour over a single large lump of ice in a bowl, and add
 2 qts of good sparkling water.



RASPBERRY VINEGAR, MADE from the FRESH FRUIT ITSELF; from
a VERY, VERY OLD ENGLISH RECEIPT WE FouND in ST. ALBANS, HERT-
FORDSHIRE, in the SUMMER of 1932
  One of our earliest and most delightful memories during summer

                                  . 146.
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

vacations from school was our spring visits every other year to the
home of our favourite Aunt Josephine Leaming, either in Philadel-
phia, or at her country place out on the Main Line in Wayne, Penn-
sylvania.
   Not only was she one of the most beautiful ladies ever born in
America or Europe, but one of the most elegant, the most up-to-date
even in her seventies; one of the most understanding of cryptic small-
boy likes and dislikes; one of the most considerate of all those about
her court-for that, actually, was what it really was.... And so amid
a swarm of Learnings, and Heckschers, and Carsons and Storks, she
would entertain in her lovely garden-and for the youngsters would
be ginger beer, or more unusual still, great tumblers of thinnest crystal,
filled to the brim with pale rose raspberry vinegar, with a bouquet of
mint raising its fragrant emerald head in the center. . . . Raspberry
vinegarl-How far we drifted apart during the hectic days of the
Late Attempted Drouthl . . . How we missed you. How glad we
are now and then to go sensible once more, and sip one of you, in-
stead of a Tom Collins, or similar grownuP- acceptances. . . . Of
course good raspberry vinegar may be bought in any fine delicacy
shop, but try making your own. It's lots more fun, and saves purse
strain.
Raspberries, dead ripe, I lb             Raspberries, I lb (again)
White wine vinegar, I qt                 Raspberries, 1 lb (again)
(Or failing this, diluted white          Sugar, just over I lb per pint of
   vinegar)                                  resultant juice
   Put the 1st lb of raspberries in a bowl, and bruise well. Pour white
wine vinegar over them-wine vinegar has a much more delicate
flavour than either cider or malt vinegars, and can be bought from
Italian shops, or made by efRosing any good sweet domestic wine to
the air by simply pulling the cork, adding 1 tbsp of vinegar, and let-
ting it stand for a short time in that state.
   Next day strain liquor through a cloth onto another pound of well-        1   I
crushed raspberries. Stand overnight, strain, and pour onto the third

                                  • 1 47 .
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

batch of crushed berries. . . . Do not squeeze the fruit overmuch as
this will cause it to ferment, which is not desired. . . . Wet a canvas
bag with a little of the raspberry vinegar, and strain the whole busi-
ness into a stoneware or glass container onto one pound of white
sugar-lump sugar is recommended-per each pint of juice. Stir until
dissolved. Put jar in pot of water, bringing latter to a simmer. Skim
now and again until it grows clear and no further scum rises. Let it
cool and bottle. . . . When cold it will have a consistency like heavy
syrup, and a teaspoon or so diluted in water with cracked ice makes
one of the most delicately flavoured summer thirst-quenchers in the
world .. . . Fine for children, invalids; non-alcoholic, and one of the
few non-alcoholic drinks worth touching besides water, milk, tea and
coffee.

REPULSE BAY "RHUBARB HIGHBALL," from the SUMMER
RESORT of HoNGKONG, in CHINA, SPRING 1926
    The drive up over the mountains, with its view of the Harbour and
a maze of little islands dotting steel blue water amazingly like Puget
Sound in certain aspects, from Hongkong to Repulse Bay, is one of
the most inspiring anywhere. Repulse Bay is a beautiful setting, and
small beach bungalows dot the horseshoe curve on either side of the
big hotel there. One of the most amazing things we saw, surprising,
 at least, was a Chinese town on the way where our car exploded a
 flock of chickens dyed brilliant crimson, rose, cobalt blue and chrome
 yellow-just why, God only knew.
     The Chinese have used rhubarb for countless centuries, both to eat
 and in specifics for varying ail~ents not apt to mention in this work.
  It was not strange, then, that the No. I Boy of our host of the day had
  converted the temperance members of his household to this drink.
   · · · Dice 6 cups of pink-stemmed rhubarb. Mix 4 cups of sugar with
  2 of water, heat in a double boiler and add rhubarb before it boils.
  Simmer until tender, then rub through   '    a sieve and mix in the ratio
   of I cup of rhubarb syrup to the same of orange juice. . . . Pack
  glasses with fine ice, fill 2/3 full or so, with this business, and top off
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

with club soda. A sprig of fresh green mint adds zest, and bright
straws also. As before, the amount of fruit syrups and juices, to ice and
sparkling water, is to individual taste; there is no safe, set, formula for
every race and climate!


THE NASSAU TEA SHAKE, from a TRIP to NASSAU RECENTLY,
and SERVED to THOSE WHo PREFERRED NoT to GAZE upon the CUP
when IT WAs red with WrNE
   This is an invigorating drink and we wonder why it has not been
more generally known and appreciated in the States. Simply take Yi
cup of strong black tea, sugar to taste, and a whole-very fresh-egg.
Pop in a shaker with lots of fairly large cracked ice; shake, then
strain into a sour glass, or small tumbler-with or without ice, and
with or without a topping of chilled club soda.


WEST INDIAN "TEMPERANCE" SHRUB, which MAY BE
MADE from VARYING SPEcrns of FRESH FRmTs, BERRIEs, or what NoT
-to SEASON & to TAsTE; NoTED during a <bTAY in BERMUDA NoT too
LONG AGO
  This cooling summer thirst-quencher may be made out of wild or
tame cherries, raspberries, strawberries or blackberries-any such
northern fodder; and likewise of sun-ripened sea grapes, pineapple,
mangoes, Surinam cherries, carissas, and a host of other tropical fruits
and berries such as the Eugenia Jambolina. . . . Mixed with finely
cracked ice and sweet water, it recalls the days of bronze-faced planters
-well, sipping their real Shrubs or Planter's punches, while the
women-folk, the children, sipped their "Temperance" Shrubs!
  All we need is a crocke y pot large enough to hold the fruit; a metal
pot large enough to hold the crockery affair. Extract the juice by
dredging fruit well with sugar, adding a stick or so of cinnamon,
placing in crock, and this in ttirn in metal pot. Fill latter, now, wiili. I
water-making a glorified sort of double boiler. Simmer until juices

                                  • 1 49 .
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

are pretty well drawn from the fruit, covered. Strain through a jelly
bag, and strain again if any amount of sediment is still in sight. Add
more sugar, to taste, to make a fairly sweet syrup; stir in the juice of
I lime for each cup of syrup . . . . Fill tumblers with fine ice, then
pour in as much of this fruit syrup as they will take, garnishing with
bright red or green cherries, and sipping through brightly tinted
straws. . . . The true West Indian Shrub has already been given on
Page 123.


CERTAIN PROVEN FORMULAE for the HOME CONSTRUCTION
of SucH FLum NEEDS as BITTERS, BouNcES, & BRANDIES; WINES, MEADS,
& CoRDIALs; to SAY NoTHING of a RosE LIQUEUR BRANDY by a VI-
COMTE, & the SIMPLE ~INSTRUCTION for MAKING GuM-or GOMME,
or BAR-SYRUP


FIRST a BRIEF DISCOURSE on the HEALTH-GIVING TRIBE of
BITTERS, INCLUDING THREE RECEIPTS for THEIR CoMPOUNDITION-
BEING an ALLEGED FoRMULA for ANGOSTURA, ONE for ORANGE, & ONE
for HELL-FIRE BITTERS-sometimes CALLED "CAYENNE WINE."
   Let us wave our white bar towel in a good-natured plea for truce
right at the outset, and affirm that this receipt for Angostura bitters
makes no claim to be the one hundred per cent, unchangeable, price-
less and violently kept secret formula. By the same token, if we
breathed our last in tonight's sleep, the heirs and assigns of Dr. Johann
 Gottlieb Benjamin Siegert-one-time surgeon in Bleucher's army (we
 trust the Angostura receipt booklet means the Blucher who, aged and
 infirm, made that incredibly severe forced march to aid Wellington,
 and even though he was "late," nevertheless added the vital crushing
 effect against Napoleon at Waterloo )-should lower all house flags
 at half mast for the vats of their liquid we have consumed, or caused
 to be c?nsumed in our warped and intermittent career.
    ~et it never be said that so starry-eyed a devotee at the Angostura ·
 shrme would ever claim that their "world's best kept secret" had ever

                                 • 150 •
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

crept out into light of day, in spite of the 7 people-all members of
the Siegert family-who have courted insomnia and shattered nervous
tone guarding it from profane eyes of a mercenary and covetous world
all those n5 years since 1824! According to the book of Angostura,
3 of .these are still alive and active, and we hope our favourite male
actor Frank Morgan is one of them-as the rumour goes.
   Angostura was originated as a tonic, a simple to ward off fevers,
miasmas, tropical swamp mists, and the general assortment of mauve
willies that beset Nordics under the equator-and the content of
quinine or cinchona definitely had virtue along this line. However,
as is so often the case with truly worth-while ventures, fate stuck her
tongue in cheek, and decreed that the bitters invented for health should
prove not only to be one of the best titillaters of the jaded appetite, but
by far the best priceless ingredient in all sorts of cocktails and mixed
drinks; as well as in many of the tastiest exotic food receipts we have
sampled around the world.
   Actually there are 6 main kinds of bitters sold on the open market:
Angostura, orange, Peychaud's, Calisaya; Amer Picon, and Boker's.
Hell-Fire Bitters or Cayenne Wine, are local semi-amateur tropical
creations. Peach bitters, Boonekamp's and others may be found in
first flight provision houses catering in hard-to-find, and usually im-
ported oddments of drink and good food. Of all these Angostura is
by far the most important. We now append a formula for Trinidad
bitters we had given us by a friend who lived in Port of Spain, and
which dated many years back into an old publication he had dis-
covered among some family accumulations in settling an estate. The
 old text claimed this to be the leaked-out secret formula for Angostura,
but of course we cannot confirm this as being true without verifica-
 tion from the Siegert clan-which is about as likely as we would tee
 up our right eyeball fur a shot over the water hole at Del Monte!
 We will say this though: our own pharmacy supplied us with all the
 ingredients over 2 years ago: Those that weren't ground or pounded
 fine we reduced to that state in a small kitchen mortar we own. the
 rest, the blending with spirits, was easy; the result was an inconceiv-
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

ably more economical form of bitters with the same flavour, action
and virtue.
Cinchona bark, 8 drachms                Camomile Bowers, 2 drachms
Lemon peel, 2 drachms                   Bark cinnamon, Yz drachm
Orange peel, 2 drachms                  Raisins, Y4 lb
Cardamon seeds, shelled and             Best grain alcohol, 2 qts
    crushed, Yz drachm
  All ingredients must be ground or pounded fine except the raisins,
and these are first chopped fine, then mixed thoroughly with every-
thing else. Seal tightly in a 2 qt jar and pour in enough of the finest
grain alcohol obtainable, to fill-which will be a scant 2 qts. Let stand
at an even, fairly warm temperature for 6 weeks, stirring or shaking
vigorously twice every day. Strain, then strain through a cloth; press-
ing at the last to extract essentials from the sediment. Stir and strain
once more, and bottle for use. Bon chance, Messieurs.


NOW A FORMULA for the HoME COMPOSITION of ORANGE BIT-
TERS by the AMATEUR
  Here's another relatively expensive item as now priced in small
bottles for the American market; and easily made at home. In view
of the incredible gallons of Dry Martini Cocktails consumed every
hour throughout the world-each one requiring a dash or so of
Orange Bitters-this thought appears to possess valence. Dried orange
peel, Yz lb, chopped fine. Burnt sugar, about 4 tbsp. Good grain
alcohol, 4 cups; cologne spirits is best if possible. Cardamon, caraway
and coriander seeds, Yz drachm each. These last come from the corner
 drug store.
  First chop the orange peel very fine, add herb seeds and pour on
alcohol, then stand in a sealed jar for 15 days, agitating every day. Pour
off spirits through a cloth, and seal again. Take the seeds and peel,
put them in a saucepan, crushing with a wooden muddler. Cover
them with boiling water, simmer 5 minutes; put in covered jar for

                                 . 152 .
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

2 days, then strain this off and add to the spirits. Put in burnt sugar
for colour. Filter again, let stand until it settles perfectly clear, then
bottle for use-being careful not to agitate the slight precipitation
or sediment during this final operation.

HELL-FIRE BITTERS or CAYENNE WINE, another RECEIPT
from the IsLAND of TRINIDAD, in the BRITISH WEST INDIES, and Now
and AGAIN UsED in GIN-and-BITTERS, & OTHER SIMILAR SHARP DRINKS
instead of routine BITTERS by STOUT ENGL1sm.1EN with BOILER PLATE
GASTRIC LININGS
  This is an old, old receipt dating to 1817 in print right here before
us-and likely long before that, because the British knew Port of
Spain a century and a half before. In fact we have just been diving up
coins, cannons, shot, crystal goblets and other miscellaneous relics
from HMS WINCHESTER, 60 guns, 933 tons, commanded by one
John Soule, and while bound from Jamaica to England, sank in a gale
on a certain coral barrier reef, 24th September 1695-and have the
loot to prove it! And photographs; and cinl!ma film.
   This Hell-Fire Bitters is an excellent cooking and seasoning sauce
for fish, salads, soups and meats, when · mixed half and half with
strained lime juice and stood for 2 wks, in an uncovered bottle, be-
fore using-a fact which has been disclosed in Volume I.
   Pound up 2 cups of scarlet round bird peppers, or small chilis or
cayenne peppers. Put in a saucepan with l cup of tart white wine;
simmer up once and turn everything into a pint jar, add l cup of
cognac brandy and seal jar tight. Let steep for 14 days, strain through
several thicknesses of cloth and bottle for use. lWien used solely for
seasoning food, put everything through a fine sieve. These peppers
have a vast am~unt of flavour in .the~r scarlet skin and flesh, entirely
aside from the mtense h at of their 01ls. Seeds for their home growth
in ordinary window boxes, flower pots, or rusty tin cans!, may be
bought at any half-way seed store.
   If no fresh peppers are possible simply stir ~ oz of ground cayen~e'
pepper into the wine-brandy mix. Claret and brandy, claret alone,

                                  • 1 53 .
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

sherry and brandy, sherry alone, and brandy alone, are also authentic
steeping fluids. Actually it is not a "bitters" at all unless a little cin-
chona bark is added-and Yz drachm or so is plenty, strained out at
the last along with the pepper pods.


BAR SYRUP, KNOWN as GUM, or GOMME SYRUP, & which
SHOULD BE on EVERY BAR
   There is a reason for bar syrup to the practical eye of the profes-
sional, for in many iced drinks-especially those wanted in a hurry,
ordinary sugar seems to take an age to dissolve. Remember all the
Tom Collinses that were double sweet in the last sip? Well, gomme
syrup dissolves evenly and quickly. It isn't quite so romantic, perhaps,
but is far saner. ~
    Many receipts call merely for sugar and water, but we supply the
 true old formula with egg white to clarify the syrup to the desired
 crystal limiHd texture so necessary.... Dissolve 2 lbs of sugar-about
 4 cups-in 1 cup of water. Stir in the well beaten white of 1 egg. Boil
 up briskly, and when scum rises take the skimming spoon and skim
 diligently. When the syrup is clear the job is done. Let it cool and
 bottle for future use. It may be coloured or not, according to the whim
  of the host. We must confess that a little light green colouring matter
  in Tom Collins syrup is mighty pretty!


 FIRST ONE BOUNCE, then the BRANDIES
    This Cherry Bounce receipt is to all intents and purposes a form of
 cherry brandy, or liquor, made more frequently than not from wild,
 or other small, dark, highly flavoured cherries not suitable for the
 table market. It would make a valuable agent for flavouring many
  cocktails, or served as a cordial to be taken with coffee. . . . Simply
  take ~ sizeable jar, having an absolutely tight cover. Half fill it with
  cherries that have been washed, and if possible with stems snipped
  half way off so stems will bleed, and bruise the fruit with .a muddler.
  Dust with a little sugar, then fill up with brandy. Put on cover loosely

                                   • 1 54.
               THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

and let stand for 4 weeks, then mash up fruit thoroughly but in this
case don't break any seeds. . . . Strain through a thick jelly cloth, or
folded cloth. Sweeten with gomme syrup to taste. Bottle tightly and
stand another 4 weeks before sampling.


AN OLD ENGLISH CHERRY BRANDY RECEIPT, that AF-
FoRDs a SPICED & DELICIOUS LIQUEUR as FINELY FLAVOURED as any of
the BEST IMPORTED AFFAIRS, & FAR KINDER to the CHEQUEBOOK; from
BoxMooR, HERTFORDSHIRE, in 1932
  Take 6 lbs of wild, or other small black cherries-but never the red
"pie cherry" variety, please, and after washing them with clipped
stems on add to 2 lbs of ripe fresh strawberries. Add 2 to 3 lbs of
sugar, l doz whole cloves, l tsp cinnamon-or 2 whole sticks-2 tsp
of nutmeg, a bunch of fresh green mint tips. Put fruit and spices in a
small wood cask and bruise slightly with a wooden stick. Add 6 qts
of brandy and let stand with bung very slightly open for IO days-or
until fermentation has stopped. Now sipltoo off the liquid, filter into
a clean container. Empty out keg and scald-then refill with the fluid,
driving in the bung. It is cricket to star _sampling in 60 days. . . . A
few cracked cherry pits are also suggested to add their characteristic
bitter taste, and which were not suggested in the Cherry Bounce just
noted. A fairly good average of sugar is to allow a scant Yz cup of
sugar to each pound of fruit. Smaller amounts require their relative
proportions.


VICOMTE de MAUDUIT'S ROSE LIQUEUR BRANDY
  If there is a more charming, instructive and altogether delightful
book on food and drink than Vicomte de Mauduit's The V icomte
in the Kitchen, it doe not stand on our shelves. Possessing, as we do,
every book in English and many translations, dealing with foods, and
many dealing with spirits aµd wines, the issue we take with amateurs
usually is their opinionatedness on the one hand, and their lack of
travel-except in Western Europe-on the other. Their volumes are

                                • 155 •
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

works of art when it comes to what they actually know, have cooked
and eaten; but when it comes to many exotic foods and drinks, they
are hoist by the petard of their credence for what others-travelers-
have written on those unfamiliar subjects. The result is often a slight
cloud of ridiculous misinformation blighting an otherwise sound
book.
    Vicomte de Mauduit, however, sticks to what he personally knows,
or has himself originated, or has known to have been originated by
gourmet friends. He is charmingly frank about his own information
on wines, claiming "a brilliant training and a consummate experi-
ence," on the subject. Above all, however, it is the bright clean blade
of his originality which pleases us inost. He is not content to stick to
 eternally traditionjtl variations of this or that, but with the wit of an
 angel or an amiable devil, figures out trimming all his own! This rose
 brandy receipt we quote from his volume, rendering a respectful hom-
 age and credit for its loveliness. We have tried it ourself and find that
 the fastidious guest ;ho silently judges his host by the not-too-com-
 plicated excellence of his food and drink, obtains a fanatical and de-
 lighted gleam in the eye when it passes his lips. We cannot say why,
 but Monsieur le Vicomte's further thoroughness in listing the names
  of the red roses best suited for this liqueur, also satisfies us wholly.
  Just why we cannot say, but we are vastly uplifted, packed with a
  toast-warm and intimate titillation at the thought that the fragrant
  rose-brandy cocktail we sip was yielded up by the willing death of
  Lady Helen Maglona. This plane of reasoning is somewhat baffled
  however, should we become fragrantly swacked on a quartet brewed
   from the rufous petals of a General McArthur, or a George Dickson!

  TO MAKE THE ROSE LIQUEUR BRANDY
    Take 8 big red roses-and don't go around under the fond mis-
  c~nception that because no one is checking up, that yellow, white, or
  pmk roses will do. The Vicomte says red roses are en regle, and au
  fait-and that means red roses! These furthermore must be picked
  after a rainless night and before the morning sun strikes them, for, like

                                   . 156 .
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

tender herbs to be dried, much of the fragrant volatile oil dissipates
itself on the morning air as soon as the sun beats down on blooms or
leaf tips.
   Separate the petals, discard dewdrops, and inferior petal specimens,
and snip off yellow or white areas around the stamen region. Now
put petals in a jar with I qt of really decent cognac poured over them.
Be sure it is covered tightly, and agitate it with a gentle and considerate
hand every week. After a month of this scented bath add a gomme
syrup generated from the wedding of 3 cups of sugar with 2 cups of
distilled water, and handled as follows. . . . Boil briskly for 20 min-
utes, skimming off scum, then put in the selected petals of I doz
more red roses, dusted and tossed first with powdered sugar. Let the
saucepan boil up again, then simmer gently for I hr tightly covered.
   Now filter the 1st rose petal-brandy infusion from the jar, and rack
it into a large sterile bottle. A filter paper is of course best here. Then
add the rose petal syrup, likewise filtered through a tammy or several
thicknesses of cloth, working it through with a spoon. Stir the final
mixture, then let stand uncorked except for a bit of cloth over bottle
 neck for 12 hrs, then cork and seal with wax. . . . Our experience has
been that there is a very slight sedimen t which settles out of this blend,
and if the bottles are once more filtered after a couple of weeks stand-
ing undisturbed, the result is all the heart could desire. . . . Receipt
 for the Vicomte's Cocktail, made of this rose brandy, may be found
 on Page 135.

NOW to CREATE a WORTHY CIDER-which ls CERTAINLY as
IMPORTANT an EVENT as FABRICATING a PROFITABLE MousE TRAP, or
HoT WATER BAG, or HAm ToNIC
   The Normandy chateau country is famous for its apples, for its
Calvados apple brl:tndy, for its cider; for its cider champagne which,
if properly made and aged, is as fine in its own manner as champao-ne
made from Rheims grapes, for instance. This is an old French rec:ipt
we picked up in Paris 12 years back, and although cider making differs
in its finer tr'immings between France and-let's say-the Yakima

                                  • 1   57 .
               THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

Valley, which, incidentally, is in Washington, and is pronounced
Yack-a-maw and not ya-Key-ma, the basic fermentation principles are
forever the same. Cider has been made for thousands of years and due
to the fearful, muddy hogwash our rural folk insist on inflicting upon
their customers, it is widely neglected by those who should know
better.
  As a matter of fact, and with all due credit to our Pacific North-
west stalwarts, the tart, more flavourful Eastern apples really are
better for fine cider-apples like the favourite winesap, for instance.
The rules are really quite simple.

I. Use apples not quite ripe, if we want sparkle, snap and finest flavour
   in cider.
2. Don't be both lazy and stingy by gathering up a bin of wormy wind-
   falls, unless .we really admire that sad bruised-apple taste. Cider is an
   important business and deserves first grade fruit, not something we
   wouldn't dare feed to swine. Science has not yet been able to announce
   any virtue in crushed worms, entirely aside from their distinct lack of
   distingue. Inferior fruit is what ruins most ciders.
3. Mellow these apples for IO days to 2 wks, depending on briskness of
   weather-the colder the longer-by spreading them out on dry straw in
   a dry barn. This permits mucilage to break down, and perhaps the
   starch, for all of us!-and starts development of carbonic acid which
   insures that delightful sparkle so lacking in almost all professional, and
   most amateur, ciders.
4. The apples are now ground to a pulp and juice pressed out through
   coarse strong cotton bags. A small hand cider press is used in small
   amounts, filtering the juice well.
5· Put juice in open tub or vat at a constant temperature of around 60°
   Fahrenheit, covered with a cloth to prevent entry of dust, entomological
   specimens, and general rural addenda. . . . Allow 2 days for weak
    c~der; 8 to 10 days for strong; or in latter event, when sediment has sub-
   sided. Beyond this point the vinegar trend develops apace--abortive
   and acid beverage, at best, and not one to be admired.
6. Rack off into clean wooden kegs and store in cellar where fairly cool,
   even temperature is assured.
7· Drink now if we cannot wait, but remember it will really be a divine
   nectar by the coming spring!

                                   . 158 •
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK .

NOW a CAREFULLY CHOSEN LIST of PLEASANT WINEs, FIRST
of which Is a SIMPLE NoRMAN TYPE of CHAMPAGNE, which REQUIRES
No YEAST
  Take cider that still has a very slight sparkle-about 5 or 6 days old,
on the above scale. Rack it off through a filtering cloth, or paper, into
a sterile keg that has been rinsed with scalding water. To a IO gallon
keg allow 3 cups of the finest grain alcohol, or about 2 bottles of
brandy, whisky, or gin-if nothing else, and 3 lbs of sugar. Stir and
let stand for IO to 12 days with bung in loose. Now "fine," or settle,
the wine by the routine given just below, and let settle 4 days longer
-about 14 days in all. Rack carefully into champagne bottles, filtering
again if at all cloudy. Cork with sound corks, and if we don't wish the
risk of bombardment from inner bottle pressure, wire them or tie
them on very tightly.
   Under no condition use ordinary wine or other bottles. They are
not made to stand high pressure, and the cellar will be filled with
Hying glass, and very untidy explosions. We know!


HOW to "FINE," or CLARIFY-WINE the PoRTUGUESE WAY, a RECEIPT
DATED 1736, and FouND in GIBRALTAR STARTING a VoYAGE THROUGH
the MEDITERRANEAN, via M ALLORCA, VILLEFRANcHE, N APLES, & ATHENS,
to HAIFA, which Is in PALESTINE, in the EARLY SPRING of 1931
   Allow 5 egg whites and l tbsp of salt to each IO gals of wine. Beat
these together into a froth; draw off l pint or so of the wine and add
to the eggs. Stir well and add this to the container of wine to be clari-
fied. In a few days it will be "fine"-from 3 to 5 usually does the trick.
The egg mixture settles out, carrying finely suspended bits of lees
and sediment with it.


ENGLISH BLACKBERRY WINE, No. I, from NEAR WHIPSNADE
                    .                                               '
HERTFORDSHIRE, 1932                                        I

  This receipt is a time-tested one and has been in use to our know!-

                                 • 159 •
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

edge since r832. Contrary to the U. S. A. country style, fermentation
is started before adding any sugar.
     Blackberries, any amount
     Boiling water, enough to cover
     Granulated sugar, r lb for every gallon juice
     Brandy or gin (brandy preferred), Yi cup per gallon mash
   Blackberries should be fresh and "gathered on a fine dry day." There
is no mention of washing, and we presume that the dust and various
impedimenta of the region (as in the Spey-side Scotch whisky dis-
tilleries) are left intact to aid in fermentation and to donate special
flavour. . . . Cover with briskly boiling water and stand all night to
draw out juices. Strain through sieve into crock or cask, and let fer-
ment for fifteen days in a place not too warm, nor yet with any chill.
Here you add your pound of sugar and pint of spirits to every gallon
juice. This presumably halts all further thought of fermentation, and
the potion is bottled for future uses. Or practically immediate use.

ENGLISH BLACKBERRY WINE No. II, a RECEIPT from BicESTER,
through which WE JoURNEYED on the WAY to BANBURY, to SEE an
OLD LADY about a WHITE HoRsE, SuMMER of r932-and which is
EXACTLY ror YEARS 0Ln: the RECEIPT, not the LADY-& to GET SOME
BANBURY CAKES
   Gather fruit dead ripe on a dry day. Have a crock, or wood keg
without head, and a tap or faucet a couple of inches above bottom.
Mash berries well, pour on boiling water enough to cover. Let them
stand with a cloth cover, for 3 or 4 days, where temperature is fairly
steady and not too chill. Pulp will then rise to surface in a crust. Open
tap and draw off wine into another container, and add one pound of
sugar per gallon. Mix well and put into a scalded keg, let stand with
bung out until it stops working. Have keg almost full. When wine
 stops working drive in the bung. Rack off in six months and bottle,
 or scald out keg again, return wine and let stand tightly bunged for
 another six months. The latter is much better, but virtually impossible
to the average amateur, lacking patience .

                                 . r6o .
               THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

OLD ENGLISH DANDELION WINE, BEING a FORMULA FETCHED
across the ATLANTIC in the 17th CENTURY, by SAILING SHIP, and DATED
from SAYBROOK, CoNNECTrcuT, CIRCA 1677
Water, 2 Yi gallons                   Oranges, 6, juice and grated peel,
D andelion blooms, 6 qts (dry             as above
    measure)                          Yeast, ~ cake fresh; Yi cake
Ginger, 1 tbsp, ground                    compressed, or 1 tbsp brew-
Raisins, 3 cups, chopped                  er's type
Lemons, 6, juice and grated peel,     T wo and a half gallon keg, 1,
    yellow part only                     scalded out

   We remember one of the high spots in our "Advanced" Biology V
Course in college covered the enzymatic action of fruits and so on-
and in case that word sounds puzzling it simply means what ferments
such items usefully-and otherwise. . . . And at one point we were
sent out to gather dandelions, which were fixed in a big glass labora-
tory crock of glass, and bottled as wine, and tested as early as com-
mencement. So much for the liberal arts courses. . . . This ancient
receipt is much better and more elaborate, although every bit as easy
to brew.
  Mix dandelions with water and boil for thirty minutes, timed after
boiling starts. Strain, and mix in gillger, sugar, and grated peel of
lemon and orange, simmering for another half hour. Pour into stone-
ware crock, and then add lemon and orange juice. When lukewarm,
spread yeast on toast and float on, or stir in compressed or brewer's
yeast.... When fermentation has stopped, siphon and strain off into
keg into which raisins have already been put. . . . Rack off after four
months or so, and bottle.

OLD ENGLISH ~DERBERRY WINE, also an OLD ENGLISH
SPECIFICATION
  We lived that summer of 1932 in Hayward House, Box Lane, Box-
moor, Herts.,-all of that, and in cruising the hedgerows in ome of
those animated chafing dishes with right handed drives that true
                                • 16x .




                                                                           ..
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

Britons laughingly call "motors" we collected many interesting things
-including this one extra fine elder wine. The spicing is what makes
it so good.
Two and a half gallon wooden           Allspice, l tsp
    keg, l, scalded out                Cloves, l tsp
Elderberries, 5 qts (dry measure)      Brandy, l pint
Pale brown raw sugar, 2 cups           Yeast, Y4 cake fresh; l cake com-
    per qt of juice                        pressed; lYz tbsp brewer's
Ginger, Yz tsp
  Crush fruit and pour on water. Put through a sieve. Measure juice
and add 2 pounds of raw sugar (brown will do but not so well) to
each liquid quart. Add spices and simmer for 15 minutes. Pour as-is
into your stoneware crock, spread yeast on toast (if fresh) and float
on, or moisten compressed with a little sugar, and stir in . . . . Elder-
berry wine must be in a warm place as it fails to ferment as promptly
as other fruit juices. . . . When it stops working, strain into our keg,
adding l pint of good cogaac, and drive in bung tight. Rack off and
bottle in 4 months-longer if we can wait.

ANCIENT BRITISH WINE OF MULBERRIES, CIRCA 1757,
from the CorrswoLn
  Here is another classic wine which is not only simple to make but
cheap as may be for anyone with even a single mulberry tree.
Mulberries, ro qts, dry measure       Two and a half gallon keg, l,
Spring or rain water, 4 qts                scalded out
Sugar, 6Yz cups (pale brown raw       Spring or rain water, 2Yz gallons
    is best)                          Sugar, 8 lbs or trifle less
                                      A little isinglass to clarify
   If isinglass is used make as follows: crush mulberries in a granite
basin, add water and stand all night in a warm place. Strain through
a sieve, and add sugar. When thoroughly dissolved, barrel. Break up
isinglass in small bits, dissolve in juice, stir into barrel, adding the
second batch of sugar and water. When it has stopped working, bung

                                 • 162.
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

up tight-and leave a little air space in the keg. . . . Rack off in four
to six months, and bottle.

CORDIALS, or LIQUEURS, to GRACE any CELLAR & COMPOUNDED
by the AMATEUR HIMSELF
PLEASE LET us explain on this page that there are many, many superb
liqueurs which cannot under any stretch of imagination be assembled
in the home by amateur mixers, no matter how sincere and diligent.
In the first place the very best of these fragrant potions are fustfruits
of varying secrets, guarded for generations-hundreds of years, even
-which presumes knowledge of certain herbs or ingredients which
guarantee their celebrated flavour. Also age is a definite factor, both
in the character of ingredients, and subsequent mellowing of the
cordials themselves. This factor too is a discouragement in our im-
patient era!
   In other words, we do not claim to be able to make benedictine,
chartreuse, and like immortals for all of these reasons. But we very
definitely do claim knowledge of certain ~ecrets gathered in Europe,
mainly, whereby several delightful liqueurs may be made by the ama-
teur-some of which are not at all availabk in the open market today;
and furthermore their accomplishment insures tariff impossible under
our existing ad valorem import duties which our lawmakers impose
on foreign spirits whether or not they compete at all with American
industries they rush to "protect" long after the industries themselves
are out of their swaddling clothes.
  We therefore offer this dozen or so of receipts, formulae, for making
cordials that won't require infinite patience, aging of product, or in-
gredients too expensive or foreign for practical employment.

A BRANDY of ROSES, which WE H AVE CALLED "RosE LIQUEUR
BRANDY, au VICOMTE de MAUDUIT"
  This fragrant and delicate bit. of genius has already been entered on
these pages, being a Brandy as well as a liqueur, and we suggest turn- ·
ing to Page 155, for the formula .
                                 . 163.
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

GREEN CREME de MENTHE, an ExcELLENT RECEIPT WE CoL-
LECTED for this VoLuME in PARIS SoME YEARS AGo
   This is delightfully simple, and as all Creme de Menthes are essen-
tially synthetic mixes-in other words assembled and not the result of
special distillations all their own, the amateur can do as well as the
professional.

   Oil of peppermint, in any pharmacy, l drachm
   Good spring or well water, bottled or otherwise, 2 qts
   Best grain spirits; or cologne spirits, better still, about 2Yz cups
   Gomme syrup, to taste
   Green colouring, to emerald shade

  Blend peppermint oil and spirits, then stir into the sweetened water.
The amount of sugar in this last should be determined by tasting
good creme de menthe, and matching it. Now add colouring, stand
covered tightly in a wide-mouthed jar for 5 days, then take a new
white blotting paper _and carefully skim off all excess peppermint oil.
The 2 Yz cups suggested for spirits content is 20 oz, or roughly 33 l/3 %
alcoholic strength, by volume.

OTHER CORDIALS of SIMILAR EssENTIAL OIL CONSTRUCTION MAY
BE MADE EASILY
  Liqueurs of anis, caraway (which parallels kiimmel), clove, and
other liqueurs may be made in exactly the same way, and in the same
approximate ratio. Essential oils are available, and much simpler to
use than by infusing seeds or peels in spirits.

THE CELEBRATED RECEIPTS of DR. WILLIAM KITCHINER, &
DATED 1817, for ORANGE CuRA9Aos No. I, & No. II
Dried Seville Orange peel,              Best rectified, or cologne, spirits,
    pounded fine, 5 oz                       l qt

(Or the fresh peel of a Shaddock,       Gomme Syrup, See Page 154,
    Grapefruit, ditto)                       l qt
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

  Pour 180 proof spirits on peel; cork and stand for a fourtn't; strain
through cheesecloth first, add syrup, and filter once through a chemi-
cal filter paper (obtainable at good drug stores).
NoTE: About the only decent cura~ao on the American market now
has to be imported from Holland-where most of it is made, despite
the Island of Cura~ao, off the Venezuelan coast, being nearer to
America. Our import duties on such delectables are so ridiculously
high that one would think them a roundabout way of collecting the
much-publicized War Debt.

ORANGE CURA<;AO No. II
 The easier of the two, in modern times.
             Sweet oil of Orange Peel, 2 drachms ( Y4 oz)
             Best rectified, or cologne, spirits, l pint
             Gomme Syrup, See Page 154, l pint
  Simply add orange oil to spirits. Add the sugar syrup, shake well,
and stand overnight. Line a funnel with muslin, strain, then put
through filter paper three times until it is quite "bright," as Dr. Kitchi-
ner calls it. . . . The Doctor states :_"This Liqueur is an admirable
cordial, (with coffee), and a tea-spo~nful in a tumbler of water is a
very refreshing Summer Drink, ano a great improvement to punch."

MARIGOLD LIQUEUR, from the COTE d'AZUR, which Is in
FRANCE; 1932
 Here is a delicious adventure for those in the country with plenty of
marigold blossoms coming along faster than we know what to do
with them.
Marigold petals, Yi peck                   Water, 6 qts
Strained honey, l lb•                      Sugar, 3Yi lbs, brown
                   Raisins, chopped a little, scant lb

  Petals may be gathered; with dew off, over a few days' period. Mix
sugar, honey, r,aisins, and water, let boil up for fifteen minutes, then
                                  . 165 .
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

 after clearing with white and shell of an egg, strain well, heat up to
boil again and pour over petals. Stand in tightly covered crock or
enamel kettle around 70 degrees Fahrenheit for twenty-four hours.
Stir, and cover once more, and repeat for three days. Strain, put in
wood keg; add grated rind of three oranges and another pound of
sugar. Add a yeast cake and cover bung with cloth and when fer-
mentation stops add a pint of brandy, stir in half an ounce of dis-
solved isinglass, or other clearing agent, and bung tightly. After four
months rack off carefully into bottles; cork tightly. Ready for use in
six months.

ORGEAT or ALMOND SYRUP, from a RECEIPT DATING back to
1817
  This syrup is used in flavouring certain delicate and oddly con-
ceived cocktails. The receipt may be compounded as follows:
Jordan almonds, blanched, l lb        Orange-Rower water, l tbsp (Yz
Bitter almonds, blanched, l lb            gill or so)
Rose-water, 2 cups                    Spring or rain water, 2 cups
  Pound almonds very fine in a mortar or bowl, first adding the
orange-flower water to keep from oiling. Then add rose water and
spring water and rub through a fine sieve until the almonds are dry.

ROCK and RYE
  All of us have seen this eye-titillating array of goodies imprisoned
in spiritual bliss in a large squarish bottle. How many of us have
thought to assemble a bit for ourselves. It's very simple indeed.
Rye.whisky, 1/5 gallon, not a full   Whole cloves, l doz
    quart                            Quartered small California
Jamaica rum, jigger                       orange, peel left on
Rock candy, Yz cup, leave in large   Quartered seedless lemon, peel
    lumps                                 left on
                     Stick of cinnamon, or two
                                 . 166.
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

  Put ingredients in ja,r, cover with rye, and stand for a fortnight.
Strain out spices through fine cloth or filter paper. Put back on fruit
until needed.
  To serve: Cut spiral orange rind, also one spiral lemon rind, put in
whisky glass, and pour liquor over. . . . Can be served hot with ex-
cellent effect to fight off colds, influenzas, miasmas, megrims, swamp
mists, and blackwater fevers. In fact any sort of excuse seems to work.

ENGLISH MEAD, from THREE VERY OLD RECEIPTS
  Far back in the dim past when thick-armed giant Saxon kings dined
in raftered halls, with flaxen-haired ladies below the salt, at the lower
tables, mead has been drunk in England. Huge horns washed down
haunches of venison, and the bones were tossed over shoulder to the
stag-hounds clamouring on the rush-strewn floors. Then more flagons
were brought, the minstrels sang, the cooking fires were poked up so
that sparks flew upward through the murky rafters, and another
haunch of deer meat was skewered on the black iron spit. The Saxons
were mighty men, mighty in battle, mighty with food trencher and
wassail bow 1.

OLD ENGLISH MEAD No. I, the CoTIAGER's DELIGHT
  From a receipt dated 1677
Strained honey, 2 cups           Yeast, Yz cake spread on bit of
Water, 4 quarts; rain water or       toast, Boating; or l tsp of
    spring water is best             brewer's
Sugar, brown or white, Yz cup    (Or l oz compressed baker's
Lemon, peel, l chopped fine; and     yeast)
    JUICe l                      Egg, whites 2, beaten well

  Mix honey, water a'nd sugar; add eggs, simmering slowly. When
scum stops forming, add lemon peel, juice; and yeast when it has be-
come just lukewarm. Stand. in a crock in a warm spot until it stops
working, then bottle as we would beer-either with caps or corks, tied
down for luck.
                                 . 167 .
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

SAXON MEAD No. II, APPROVED METHOD of BREWING, & OLDER
than ELD
Eggs, whites 6, beaten well       Rosemary, r sprig if you can
Water, 12 gallons; rain or spring     find it; or 3 tbsp dried
    water best                        needles
Honey,2olbs                       Yeast, l cake, worked into a
Ginger, nutmeg, cinnamon, pow-       cream with warm water; or
    dered clove, l tbsp each         2 tbsp of brewer's
  Mix egg white with water, and add the honey. Boil for an hour,
skimming now and then; and add our spices and herbs. When cool,
add yeast, and put into cask not closed, so it may work; keeping in a
warm place at even temperature. When fermentation ceases, seal the
bung, and let stand six months in a cool place of even temperature.
At the end of that time it should be racked off and bottled.

STRONG OLD ENGLISH MEAD No. III, DATED A.D. 1736
  Back in the year l J36 one E : Smith, in his Compleat Housewife-
of London imprint-saw fit to list various noble dishes and potations
of the time, among which was one for Mead, which appears to be
among the accepted best of that time.
Spring water, IO gallons              Cinnamon, 4 sticks
Honey, about 20 lbs                   Nutmegs, 3, quartered or grated;
Mace, 8 blades to IO gallons              or 3 tbsp, ground
Whole cloves, 24 to 10 gallons        Lemons, 4, sliced thin with
    (We should say 48)                    rind on
Ginger root, 2 roots to IO gal-       Rosemary, 2 sprigs
    Ions; or l Yi to 2 tbsp, ground   Yeast, l modern cake spread on
Cayenne pepper, Y4 ounce to IO            toast, or l Yz to 2 tbsp brew-
    gallons                              er's yeast
  Heat spring water until nicely warm to the hand, then add enough
honey to float a small Fresh! egg. Boil it gently for an hour, skimming
as necessary. Then add the other ingredients-and after simmering
for half an hour, discard the rosemary-turning the whole business

                                 . 168 .
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

spices and all into a large earthenware crock. . . . Float a piece of
toast spread with a cake of yeast. Strain it into a clean scalded cask.
After three months take out the spice bag, rack off and bottle it. In
six weeks, then, our Englishman recommends to start sampling.

PERRY, BEING CONCEIVED from the JmcE of PEARS, and ONE
of the MosT ANCIENT & DELICATE of THEM ALL, an ENGLISH RECEIPT
of 1817
   Perry is pear cider, and one of the early European drinks. It makes
a delicate and delicious beverage, especially in summer when refresh-
ing tastes are a help to fight humidity and other complaints follow-
ing hot weather.
   Pears should be sweet, and just under-ripe when picked for perry.
If too sweet and ripe, and not astringent at the start, they will develop
too much vinegar taste when juice is matured into full age.
   Grind up pears exactly like apples, and press out juice. The fer-
mentation is the same as cider, except there is no great amount of
scum, and for this reason it is hard to tell just when fermentation
ceases-a point coincidental with the stronger variety of this drink.
. . . Just before fermentation stops in perry, draw it off from the main
part of the lees, or dregs. Scald out the lees. ~ut it back into the tub
or crock again until the fermentation is done-about the same as
cider. Put it in kegs, and bottle it next spring-if there is any left at
that late date!

A FEW TIMELY KERNELS of ADVICE for THOSE THREATENED
with IMMINENT DEPARTURE for the BARS; or HAVING ARRIVED, HAVE,
through this CRISIS or that, BECOME FACED with ANY of DIVERs EMER-
GENCIES
  We have already lightly rrwntioned that plenary intoxication is
contrary to lasting solvency, happiness-either during the final stages
of becoming swacked, or on the morn after. The dividing line, how-
ever, between quitting a brightly pleasant stimulation and this sad         1 I

estate is actually finer than we know; and until we find a proven way

                                 . 169.
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

 of regulating our liquid absorption as this condition approaches, any
 pleasant drinker may be betrayed by his own enthusiasms, or in prov-
ing his balance or his manhood as a 2-fisted bottle-man!
   Particularly is this true on large and involved congregations, such
as country weekends, trips on yachts, and other divers sequences-
especially if liquors are visible in large supply and amateur mixers
among the guests are given carte blanche to explore and blend to their
heart's content. Therefore, should the barometer tend to forecast such
alarming possibility, and we-through real or false pride, weak mind,
fallible stomach, to cash a bet, revenge a rival, or impress a lady-feel
certain of liability ourself, there is always one tried and true way of
minimizing subsequent toxic effect, which is vastly gratifying to the
party of the 1st part, mystifying to rival, and impressive to the girl.
It is a drugless way, and incidentally in actual practice we find that
the farther an inebriate keeps away from stiff drugs, the better for all
concerned.
   So, therefore, before the 1st stirrup cup take a scant 2 tsp of olive oil
-gingerly, and repeat at 15 minute intervals, to a total of 6 tsp in all.
Take these gingerly, and in no event try to take all 6 at once without
having proved it harmless in the past. We once, in vasty youth, tried
taking 2 oz of the oil in one gulp. To our collective sorrow the effect
upon our timid and shrinking gastric unit proved far more violent
than any man-made emetic.

TO ALLAY a MILD, or EVEN SEVERE, SYNCOPE, sometimes CALLED
FAINTING, from PoTATION

   Should any guest, male or female, through any form of miscalcula-
tion fall upon this evil estate they should-in mild cases-be speedily
placed upon a seat with knees spread. Then with the hands clasped
?ehind the nape of the neck, urge the patient to draw his head down
m that position as far toward the floor as physically possible. This
forces some of the blood back into the brain, and the seizure may
pass. · · · If not, and after 5 minutes, the condition still obtains-get
him into a recumbent position; loosen clothing, especially at the throat. ·

                                  • 170 •
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

Be sure there is an open window close by, present an uncovered bottle
of smelling salts intermittently beneath the patient's proboscis, and
bathe his, or her, temples with eau de cologne or rubbing alcohol.
Lacking this, bathe temples with a lump of ice, ice water, ice water
and vinegar.
  In extreme cases remove the shoes from feet, and apply a very hot hot
water bag thereto; watch the pulse and if it really becomes weak or
gives any tendency toward flutter, do not hesitate to arouse the near-
est physician. Above all, especially if hysterics are a by-product, force-
fully refuse aid from any inebriate or amateur hands, no matter how
willing. Bustle, hustle and hysterics are contagious; calm and good-
natured sympathy works wonders. Where the patient can swallow,
30 to 40 drops of sal volatile in strong black unsweetened coffee is a
vast help.

TO ALLEVIATE APPARENT DEATH from Toxic Po1soNINGs,
& EsPECIALLY SHOULD, in any HAPPENSTANCE, the QUALITY of the
LIQUOR BE SUSPECT
  Happily enough, while there are a good many comparatively youth-
ful distillations of American gins and whiskys.'-their production, the
reputation of their manufacturer, and a rigid government ruling and
inspection make adulteration at the source impossible. However,
there are in rare cases certain people who do illegal adulteration to
make an unholy profit at the risk of others. And in such case the symp-
toms are usually sudden and violent enough to publish the emergency.
In any case where a violent illness is felt, or apparent, administer an
emetic at once. It is better to tax a patient-guest unnecessarily than to
chance severe conclusion, and anyway, since the patient quickly re-
gains a feeling of exhausted well-being no one will ever be the wiser.
  There are 3 species of emetics that are usually possible in any house-
hold at a moment's notice:       11



1. Mustard . . . . Mix 1 fairly heaping tsp with I glass of warm water, or
   warm milk. Drink it all.
2. Salt . . . . The same, or slightly stronger mixture; also in warm water .


                                  • 171 •
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

3. lpecacuanha . . . . This simple is an emetic, a diaphoretic, and an expec-
   torant. Mix from IO to 20 grains of the drug with Y4 cup of water-
   depending on patient's ruggedness of physique. Repeat every Yz hr
   until gastric evacuation is accomplished. After 3 doses stop, and call a
   physician. Ipecacuanha is poisonous in overdose.

TO SALVAGE A GUEST from the EFFECTS of HANGING-by RoPE,
not the MoRNING AFTER
   This is, we are happy to say, a most unlikely emergency; but we
surmise, on occasion, that an amateur mixer-either through remorse
at the horror of his concoctions, through self-induced intoxication and
a weariness of life and life's problems, may seek to take his own life by
knotting one end of a bar towel, or cocktail apron, over the nearest
chandelier and noose it about his own neck. . . . In any such case we
quote an ancient English routine which should kill or cure.
I. Don't dawdle or joke. Hanging is no fun and must be handled quickly
   or not at all.
2. Cut him, or her, down.
3. Carry the patient to the nearest open space on the floor, and strip off
   clothing; or if still breathing, take to the bedroom for this process.
   Wrap him in hot blankets with hot water bottles. Apply hot water bot-
   tles, hot bricks, hot bags of sand, or hot glass bottles-Ah those British-
   ers are a hardy race!-to the armpits, to the soles of the feet, between
   the thighs; and especially along the spine.
4- Rub the surface of the body with hands enclosed in wool gloves, Aunt
   Aphasia Fittich's red flannel shorts, or dad's golf stockings . . . . Under
   no condition use alcohol, either rubbing or drinking, on the body's
   surface.
5· Where respiration has ceased, don't go in for all this routine but place
    patient face down fully clothed on the living room rug, head on one side,
    tongue pulled free-and proceed with drowning 1st aid, see any Boy
    Scout Manual. . . . Or, briefly: kneel astride patient's hips, facing his
    head.... Place both palms on either side of spine, over the lower ribs;
    then. gradually throw our weight forward on them until virtually sup-
    portmg the whole weight of our upper body. Release pressure at once,
    but release it slowly. This whole pressure and release routine should take
    4 seconds. Only I person is needed to save life by this so-called Schaffer
    Method. It really supplies almost as much air as normal respiration .

                                   • 172 •
                   THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

CONCUSSIONS & VIOLENT SHOCKS
  This is a civilized and free country, but now and again men, being
nothing but great big boys at heart, lay themselves open to this form
of violence or that-either from barging into Yi open doors in the
twilight, or through audible or secret notice of the lovely blonde crea-
ture at the next table. Now whether this sad eventuality come through
a water carafe bent across the victim's head by a disciplining wife or
sweetheart, or the lady's male escort at next table executes a purge, we
advise prompt first aid as follows: remove to seclusion and quiet; ex-
pel all curiosity seekers, candid camera fiends, reporters, ex-wives or
sweethearts, enemies, friends or partisans.
  In severe shock and concussion, the face is pale, the body surfaces
cold; the forehead often clammy, the pulse weak, the breathing slow
and very gentle, the pupils contracted to pinpoints. . . . 1st try to
arouse by shouting at patient. Give a jigger of brandy and water, if
able to swallow, and either before or after this thoughtful act, sub-
impose an open bottle of smelling salts at nostrils. Loosen clothing,
remove shoes, and chafe the feet-applying hot water bottle or other
heating agency to the soles. Chafe the surface of the body generally.
Keep in a prone position until revival. Then stop ears to all post-
mortems.
TO ALLEVIATE the EMBARRASSING EVENTUALITY of a RUDDY &
BLOODSHOT EYE
  There are many very fine and new-fangled collyriums for this silent
confession to one thing or another, but nothing is much better than
the old yeoman's simple: simmer 3 sprigs of snipped parsley in enough
water to cover for 5 or 6 minutes. Strain, let cool, and apply with cup
or eye dropper. In 15 minutes the danger signal has vanished!
TO ACCOMPLISH DEFEAT of the H1ccoucH, Hiccup or
HIQUET*
                              '                                 '
  This, dear friends, is a spasm of. the diaphragm caused by acidity,
   • As these unpleasant spasms almost always result from a too-acid condition, half a   1 I
teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda (of A,:m & Hammer Brand) in a glass of water will
positively effect a cure. The Publisher.

                                       • 1 73 ·
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

indigestion, a pungent liquid or solid having been in recent contact
with the inner lining of throat and stomach; from spleen and vapours
of both general and special nature. . . . There are probably more old
wives tales about such cure as there are spinsters on earth. Sipping
water while standing on the head is allegedly effective; so is sipping
water through a napkin-especially when the patient holds his, or her,
own nose, while another sympathetic friend stops the ears. . . .
Vinegar, to the amount of 2 tsp, taken undiluted, has salvaged many.
The same faith is also placed in a lump of sugar with 4 drops of oil
of peppermint on it. . . . In the days of our grandfather, a pinch of
snuff was offered. Personally we always munch a cube of ice, continue
the campaign along original lines if it takes all summer, and don't
worry.
  I{i other words any shock of sorts may, or may not, solve the riddle.
We recall hiccoughs being promptly cured once in Seattle, by a re-
sourceful husband who became mildly intolerant of all the r doz or
so friendly suggestions to his thus-afflicted wife, all of which had
failed, and .who emptied a siphon of well-chilled seltzer water down
the front of his wife's newest evening frock. The hiccoughs were
promptly cured, but we regret to report the lady almost immediately
departed for a brief residence in a certain well known city in Nevada.

THE BENGAL HOT DROPS, sometimes KNOWN in SINGAPORE
as "RAFFLES' QurnT RELIEF"
  Even though we may be careful and lucky enough to avoid the
curse of amoebic alimentary disorders in India, or anywhere in the
Near or Far East, or in the Tropics generally, we sometimes become a
prey-through nourishment on too-ripe fruits, or from other cause--
to what the old British medicos loved to call "coliks, grypinges,
spleenes, vapours, and other fl.atulencies, or scours." It is a sorry plight
indeed, and no remedy handy, so we append this proven simple as one
of the most valuable we have ever known, and administered as it is
a sort of drink, it is far more pleasant to take internally than the maze
of usual hot drops, blackberry cordials-so called-and other remedies .

                                  • 1   74.
                  THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

  Take I jigger of cognac, the same of blackberry brandy, turn into
an Old Fashioned glass. Add I dash oil of peppermint and 3 dashes
Jamaica ginger. Stir, dust nutmeg on top, waft up a prayer to any
patron saint, and hope for the best. Not only is the uncertainty, the
restless tendency done, but the mental and physical system is pleas-
antly toned into a new and more solid foundation of cheerfulness.

FOR MAL de T"P.TE, a PROVEN REMEDY which WILL PROBABLY CALL
DoWN the ANATHEMA of ALL GRADUATE PHYSICIANS yet which HAs
on MoRE than ONE OccAsION, SAVED OuR OWN LIFE
  Take 2 Tom Collins glasses. Into I put I cup of water, 3 dashes of
aromatic spirits of ammonia, 2 dashes of phosphate. Into the empty
glass put 1Yz heaping teaspoons of bromo seltzer. Mix back and
forth, and when Yz subsided, drink.

    WORDS to the LIQUID WISE No. XIX, on a TRIED and TRUE
    METHOD of PICKING UP the SAD REMAINS of OUR BEST
    CRYSTAL WINE GLASSES, SHATTERED by the ACCIDEN-
    T AL or CARELESS- HAND, & without INDUCED HEMOR-
    RHAGE through SURFACE CUTS on the HANDS
       Moisten a wad of common cotton very slightly, and after picking up
    the larger pieces, en;iploy a blotting motion to the areas infested with
    tiny sharp bits. They will come away on the cotton.

MISCELLANEOUS BAR EQUIPMENT without which the
MIXER is PmNTEDL y a LAME DucK
I paring knife costing not less than seventy-five cents, and a small cutting
   board.
I lemon squeezer
I pair of lime tweezers
I medium coarse strainer about 1 pint size
1 long-handled bar spoon
I corkscrew-a decent one with a comfortable handle
I bottle cap opener
5 quill or squirter tops, for bitters and grenadine bottles
I ice shaver or very fine crusher for juleps, and so on., This can either be
   electric, or manual. . . . A heavy canvas bag and wood mallet is as

                                    • 175 •
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

    good as any. . . . If getting one of those gadgets which grind up ice
    cubes finely, don't try to beat the game by getting one for seventy cents;
    go-to a decent place and get one big enough to hold more than one cube
   at a time, and conserve sanity.
At least 2 doz cherry picks for Manhattans, and so on.
r big bar glass with strainer and a pouring type of top, and very long-
   handled spoon for stirring. This for Martinis, and allied, stirred drinks.
r hand or mechanical shaker of around two quarts capacity.
r small hand shaker holding two large or four average cocktails, for the
   occasion a deux.
r pair mittens with jingle-bells on them, for feminine shaking to protect
   the hands from chill-and saving squeals and complaints.
r apron. The field is as wide as the Pacific on this-varying from the white
  professional "sarong" type, to fancies like we get given now and then, of
   pied-piper colours, and printed thoroughly all over with various cock-
  tail receipts.
Containers needed:
reach for lump, granulated, brown, and powdered sugars.
r bottle, cruet, or what not for gomme syrup.
3 attractive and not too large glass containers for red and green maraschino
  cherries, small pearl onions, or other garnishes.
r glass or glazed pottery honey pot.
r smart ·cream pitcher, and silver is handsomest.

  These are all needed for any half way complete bar, so don't pro-
crastinate about getting them.
Spice jars needed:
r each for whole cloves, grated nutmeg, powdered cinnamon, and the
  covers should fit well to keep aromatics from dissipating in the air.
Small bars need only cloves and nutmeg; very small bars, cloves only.
r swizzle stick, either the wooden West Indian type, or the smart modern
   metal kind all good household supply stores stock. This for frosting West
   Indian Swizzles and similar colonial thirst-quenchers.
I egg beater for egg noggs and similar fancies.
r package of short straws for juleps, and that society of sweet, creamy
   affairs, which for known reasons are called "ladies" drinks. These come
   in bright colours of cellophane, and so on.
At least 2 doz small bar napkins, of paper, linen, or what not.
As many of the following list of glasses as the traffic will bear.
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

A PLEA for LARGER GLASSES, and a LoWER HrGH-TIDE LEVEL
of PouRING
  Use a larger glass rather than a smaller one. Much as we admire
some of the liquids in Sloppy Joe's and in other places attracting
trade through pouring drinks so full they slop over, a sound cocktail
should never be poured more than three-quarters fell. . . . Skimpy
cocktails are an insult-hence graduate to oversize glasses.

STEMMED COCKTAIL GLASSES ARE BEST
   Except for the Old Fashioned, all cocktail glasses should have stems.
Heat of hand takes chill from drink if no stem; something certainly
not to be desired. Now that the mad ignorance of the recent drouth
is happily past, let's get back to some of the historic nic;eties of our
national drinks, we urge.

EIGHT, or so, SHAPES of GLASSES NEEDED for PROPER ML'{ED
DRINK EQUIPMENT
  Many people hold that all cocktails can be served in the usual two
ounce Manhattan type glass; _and just as rightly we contend that any-
one can wear a crimson bow tie with tails.

I. The standard 2 oz Manhattan type glass, with stem. Must be on all bars.
2. Tall, slender type with stem, holding around 3 oz; for Daiquiris, Alex-
   anders, and so on. . . . Should be on large and average bars. Omit for
   small bars.
3· The squatty, thick bottomed old fashioned glass, holding about 4 oz.
    . . . Should be on all bars, regardless of size.
4· The tumbler-shaped sour or "star" glass, holding about six ounces.
   Needed for large bars, mainly. Not needed for small ones.
5· Tall goblets for New Orleans and allied fizzes. They should be around
   ro to r4 oz to our way of thinking. . .. Only needed for elaborate and
   fairly complete bars.
6. Highball glasses, thin, tumbler shape, and holding 8 oz minimum, 10
   is better, and 12 'will save a lot of pouring labour.. . . Some of these
   are needed even on the smallest bars, which can find use fii>r Tom Col-
   lins work as well.
7. Tall taper-sided goblets for champagne, and other really important

                                  • 1   77 .
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

   items like the Peking Tiger's Milk on Page 130... . These should not
   be less than 10 ounces we hold, and can go all the way up to 16, depend-
   ing on glass source and host's generosity. . . . Only needed on pretty
   elaborate bars. Big rounded goblets will also do, but the taper side is
   what the world expects.
8. 16 oz straight-sided Tom Collins glasses, which are also used for mint
   juleps when hosts do not have silver cups. . . . These must not be less
   than 12 oz under any circumstances, 14 better, and 16 just about indi-
   cated. . . . The 16-oz Collins handles 1 pint of club soda or sparkling
   water.

SHAKERS in GENERAL
   We've had all sorts of shakers from the aluminum ones they give
away at Gosling Brothers in Bermuda and Soccony & Speed, Gibral-
tar, to case customers-through gigantic lighthouses, nickel silver jobs
we took over one year for outside lacquering in Kyoto, Japan, and
pic~ed up the next, to sterling ones made up for us on Silver Street,
Peking.
   We have always felt that other metal than sterling reacts badly to
liquor and acids, and aluminum especially lends a "brassy" taste. How-
ever, the newer chromium jobs appear unaffected .. . . In other words,
if we cannot afford silver, get one chromium-plated inside and out,
or glass with chrome top. . . . Certain cocktails like dry Martinis,
should always be stirred in a bar glass, never shaken-and this rou-
 tine is always given under the drink receipt. . . . The new electric
cocktail shaker-known as The Mixer-is treated on Page 6.

THE MEASUREMENTS ARE SIMPLE, & APPLY to ALL M1xED
DRINKS MENTIONED in this VoLUME

1 DASH . . . This means what comes from a bottle with a quill or
  "squirter" top, with an average hard movement of the hand . . . . Ap-
  proximately 3 drops.
r PONY . . . 1 oz, level full.
1 JIGGER . . . 1 Yi oz, level full.
1 BA~S~OON . . . This is a long handled spoon used for measuring
  or stirring.... Approximately 1 tsp.
r PINCH . . . What we can pick up between thumb and forefinger-
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

  such as grated nutmeg, cinnamon, and the like . . . . A pproximately Ys
  tsp, or a trifte less, depending on how well we pinch.

PLEASE MEASURE EXACTLY, not CARELESSLY, LAVISHLY, or
STINGILY!
  Just as in cookery, the amateur often fails because he approximates
measurements. All amou nts given here are level foll, unless otherwise
noted. . . . No matter what certain skeptics may say good cocktail
and other fancy drink mixing is an exacting chemical art-just as
modern music is an art. If we are lemonade squeezers at heart better
not bother to mix at all, or else be graceful enough to approach the
subject in a professional manner.

A FINAL NOTE, en PASSANT, on the QuANTITY UsE of ANGos-
TURA BITTERS, as well as SoME SLIGHT ADVICE on !Ts GENERAL EM-
PLOYMENT
   Most amateur mixers, including ourself, squirt in bitters more or
less by the touch system. We know too that whereas I dash does for
a single cocktail, what to do for a gallon? Standing before a large con-
tainer making 60 dashes would be rather silly, and slow, and would
send the usual mind to psychopathic wards before the night was
pinned back. The answer is, allow 1 tsp of Angostura per I qt of
mixed cocktails or drinks.

LIQUIDS NECESSARY to BRIGHT BARRING, either on a
SMALLER or a LARGER SCALE
  There are two sides to this business. If we go and list what an elabo-
rate outfit can afford, those with a 3 by 6 alcove equipped to brew 8 or
IO of the simple standbys, and with neither inclination nor gold to

play with more, will shout bloody murder. . . . Those readers with
increment enough to stock a fair to unusual bar also have their say.
And if we can buy things why not get money into circi+lation and
really m ake an elaborate cocktail book something to use, not merely
to read and skip between Old Fashioned, Martini, and Manhattan?
  The first-chop bar should have every single thing on this list; the

                                 • 1   79.
               THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

  cost should run in the neighbourhood of two hundred dollars, de-
  pending on geography.
     The average bar amateur should run through the list and pick out
  those in most general use throughout the receipts.
     Small bars should stick to the following. Dry, sloe, and old Tom
  gin; bourbon, rye, Scotch; orange and angostura bitters; French and
  Italian vermouth; grenadine and plain bar syrup; and a little each
  of the following:
     Absinthe, benedictine, apricot brandy, cognac brandy, creme de
  menthe, cointreau, curac;:ao, maraschino, port, dry sherry, Rose's lime
  syrup, raspberry syrup, honey, orange-flower water, and a Sparklets
  siphon.
     Even this small-bar list looks lengthy, and totals around fifty dollars
  without the Sparklets. But let's look at it this way:
     Any niixing spot will serve a given number of potations per annum.
 If we only have gin, bourbon, and rye, with grenadine and angostura,
. that doesn't mean we'll consume any less cubic centimeters of alcohol
  than with the above assortment-which actually is capable of an amaz-
  ing number of permutations and combinations. . . . The first in-
  vestment is larger, but the yearly outgo in dollars will remain the
  same. . . . In one case we may gain name for pecunious and uninter-
  esting assortments to offer a guest-in the latter we straightway be-
  come mighty clever and interesting fellows indeed. Good reputation
  is so rare, it would seem a canny gesture to cotton on to what little is
  going around through this simple expedient of stocking two dozen
  active ingredients in plain sight.
     Of course many exotics and oddities are lacking, but if we include
   those given here nothing will be found wanting, believe us.

 NOW for the LIQUIDS THEMSELVES
 ABSINTHE . . . Needed both for frappes, drips; but mainly in tiny
  quantities to fetch out the other tastes in cocktails-importantly, picker-
  uppers.
    Now made principally in Switzerland, being banned in France. It is
                                   • 180 •
                 THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

  a highly toxic beverage based on wormwood elixirs, with a very odd and
  intriguing taste. It is an absolute essential for every well-stocked bar-
  mainly as a flavouring agent.

ANIS . . . A potent Spanish liqueur made of aniseed and other simples.
 Anis del Mono is the old favourite. Needed oftener than the average
 mixer believes. A fine morning eye-opener indeed.

ANISETTE . . . A French aniseed cordial. Not only good as a liqueur,
 for the various tummy aches which beset humanity, but often com-
 manded in cocktails. Sweeter and milder than Spanish.

APPLE BRANDY, or APPLEJACK . . . Needed these days for several
 excellent cocktails and taller drinks, but not necessary for the small bar
 except on special occasions. . . . Don't get Jersey Lightning that some
 friend has put down in the wood since last fall, get it at least four or five
 years old. It is a very deceiving fluid, and when not watched will induce
 a happy state from the waist down, closely approaching voluntary paraly-
 sis. We speak feelingly.

APRICOT BRANDY . . . Jnvaluable both as a cordial and for certain
 cocktails such as the Grande Bretagne. . . . The best imported dry
 type is indicated, as over! -sweet attempts spoil the drink entirely, unless
 used as a straight cordial. Eschew American brands.

AQUAVIT . . . A clear potent spirit from the Scandinavian countries,
 and drunk in tiny thimblefuls, with a toss of the head. Aside from being
 a kind gesture to visiting Danes, and so on, it is practically uncalled-for
 in mixing. The general flavour i~ reminiscent of caraway. Say skol.

AROMA TIC SPIRITS of AMMONIA . . . No bar should be without
 this morning after saviour, as well as such itinerant feminine emergen-
 cies such as faintings, swoonings-either real or assumed. . . . Chemi-
 cally it is NH 8 , distilled from a pungent gas, which in its former state
 is of scant interest to mixers.

ARRACK or RACK . . . A distilled, variable, and erratic spirit found
 throughout the Far East; without enough flavour to attract western
 palates. It may be made from fermented palm toddyi ifrom muohwa
                                   • 181 •
               THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

  flowers, fermented sugar cane refuse, rice mash. Some cocktails indicate
  it, and like tequila, if aged it has merit.   . Only for large bars; and
  only decent brands are recommended.

BENEDICTINE . . . One of the most important liqueurs, and made for
 centuries out of sugar, herbs, spirits, and divers secret elixirs by the
 French Benedictine monks at Fecamp. . . . French copyists among the
 laymen state that it is compounded by blending the essences of angelica
 root, arnica blooms, lemon peels, thyme, cardamons, peppermint, cassia,
 hyssop, and cloves, blended and aged with pure water, sweetening, and
 the finest cologne spirits . . . . Everyone knows the squatty bottle with
 the D.O.M. label, and the big seal of scarlet wax . . . . Not too good as
 a mixing agent, as it lacks character, and loses its delicate flavours. . . .
 Best for cordials with coffee or without. . . . Not often indicated for
 cocktails, in spite of unjustified activity along this line by the manu-
 facturers and importers, we've found it unremarkable except in pousse
 cafes. It is too sweet for most cocktails, and isn't vigorous enough in
 flavour to overcome the strong spirits and bitters.

THE SIX MAIN BITTERS . . . Angostura and orange bitters must be
 on every-bar shelf, be it ever so humble. Next in importance are Calisaya
 -made on a quinine base and sometimes used in considerable quantity in
 cocktails--or quinine bitters; New Orleans Peychaud, Boker's and Amer
 Picon. . . . They are lots of fun to toy with, and in many things like
 gin, sherry, vermouth, make a simple cocktail of great service, which
 some people claim are the only really good ones anyway!

BRANDY, COGNAC, and CHAMPAGNE FINE, sometimes CALLED
 "FINE" ... .Brandy is simply distilled grape wine, aged in wood casks.
 Cognac is brandy from the finest possible region for its excellent con-
 ~truction-the Cognac region of France. No brandy not from Cognac
 is permitted to use the word on labels. . . . Champagne fine is merely
 very o~d, very fine, and very excellent brandy. Fine is only used in one
 ~ocktail to our knowledge, being entirely too precious and delightful in
  itself to be outraged by admixture with less aristocratic spirits. · · ·
  Napoleon brandy is probably the best-known Fine. It runs about thirty
  do~lars per fifth, and the finest is dated around 1832 or slightly later. Its
  pnce advances with age and rarity of vintage. Brandy was discovered
  through the keenness of a Dutch apothecary who, when seeing that the
  Cognac grape region, through a huge bumper crop, was producing

                                   • 182 .
                 THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

  more wine than could be shipped, thought up the idea of reducing the
  freight by extracting water by heat,-the same to be put back later at
  the consumers' end. . . . Although this didn't prove sound as to wine
  handling, the distilled wine turned into a new and mellow fluid of
  bouquet and potency which the original could never hope to equal-
  and thus brandy was given to the world, of which the well-known Hen-
  nessy cognac is a typical example founded in 1765 . . . . Beside all the
  fancy tests tasters apply to brandy, the main one for laymen like our-
  selves is as follows: Poor brandy when sipped neat burns harshly on the
  tongue, and flavour vanishes quickly. Sound brandy, on the contrary,
  does not burn sharply and leaves a flavour and bouquet which lingers
  pleasantly. . . . Sip it slowly, roll it on the tongue-and the result
  should be like ripe grapes under warm harvest-time sun . . .. The bou-
  quet of good brandy lingers in the glass long after the liquid itself is
  gone.
     Brandy is taken in three principal ways: Mixed with other things,
  and alone, either in a small brandy glass, or in the large globe glasses. In
  the latter case the globe should be warmed between palms. This bodily
  warmth startles the perfumes into wakefulness, and they arise to greet
  nose as well as lip-and the brandy is then sipped slowly, a very tiny
  bit at a time.
     Almost beyond all other spirits brandy requires enough aging, as only
  in this way can the delicate qualiti<;§. be properly brought out, and raw-
  ness mellowed. Brandies from certain years are blended with other years,
  so that an even quality may be maintained. The colourless, raw distilled
  wine becomes mellowed and darkened from the wooden casks. Actually
  1 bottle of aged brandy requires the distillation of about 10 bottles of
  wine.
     Brandy out of wood never ages, and 1 bottled in 1900 after IO years in
  wood is still IO years old in 1939 . Remember to check on this when buy-
  ing rare brandy.

CREME de CACAO . . . Needed in at least one important cocktail, and
 a favourite with the ladies as a cordial with coffee. Naturally has a potent
 chocolate flavour from cacao beans from which cocoa and chocolate
 come.             "
CREME de CASSIS . . . French black currant syrup, useful with ver-
 mouth as an appetizing cooler. Also used at rare intervals in special
 cocktails. Good with soda for non-alcoholic summer beverages.
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

CERTOSA . . . No one who has ever been outside Florence to the lovely
 little monastery with its old gardens and the one privileged Padre who
 is allowed to speak that day, will ever forget Certosa . . . . We have half
 a dozen of their brightly painted and glazed bottles, shaped like globes
 in eagles claws, Della Robbia bambinos and Virgins in flat bottles. . . .
 And within yellow and green liqueurs much like Chartreuse, only
 Italian. Their strawberry Certosa is especially, and oddly delicious . . . .
 Never used for cocktails, just as liqueurs, and with coffee. Pronounced
 Chair-toes' -a.

CHARTREUSE . . . One of the cordial immortals of all time. Like
 Benedictine and Certosa, Chartreuse is the product of monks-this time
 of the Carthusian Order, and formerly only at their establishment in
 the French Alps called Grande Chartreuse. . . . Unfortunately this
 order was banished from France to Spain just after the turn of the cen-
 t'.ury and, at Tarragona, they again set up with their secret formula
 compounded of elixirs from odd and rare herbs, water, sugar, and fine
 spirits .... Naturally all of France sprouted imitations. Clever chemical
 folk_pronounce it made up of the following essences: Sweet flag, orange
 peel, peppermint oil, dried tops of hyssop, balm, leaves of balm, angelica
 seeds and root, wormwood, tonka bean, cardamons, as well as well
 known spices such as mace, cloves and cinnamon. Nice, simple little
 formula, this!
     Green is most pungent, expensive, and a bottle will run as high as
  forty dollars alleged gold per quart, in the older supplies. . . . Yellow
  is just as good, and more aromatic; and is not only invaluable as a
  liqueur with coffee, in pousses cafes, but is the final decoration for a Gin
  Daisy, and other delicate drinks . . . . White is sweetest .

. CHERRY BRANDY . . . Danish Kirsehoer is best, and may be one hun-
   dred years of age! In more recent vintages it is widely used in many
   cocktails, as well as a liqueur and pousse cafe.

 C<?IN!REAU .. . Can't do without. Not only is it one of the six favour-
  ite liqueurs of the world, but is indicated in several very important
  cocktails like Between the Sheets.

 CORDIAL_MEDOC . . . Not used often in cocktails, but with coffee, and
  alone. It is one of the most delicate liqueurs extant, giving a rich after-

                                   . 184.
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

  taste hinting at peach pits, and bitter almonds-very, very far away, but
  pleasantly there.

CURA<;AO . . . Made from special unclisclosed spices, and from the peel
 of oranges grown in the rather barren little island of that name belong-
 ing to Holland off the Venezuelan coast. The best is made in Holland,
 although we've had some interesting green Cura?o on the island itself,
 in Willemstad, the tiny Capital. . . . Yellow is most used, and has the
 most helpful flavour, both as a liqueur, pousse cafe, or in cocktails.

DAM/ANA . . . One of those indeterminable French liqueurs made for
 scant reliable purpose, and indicated in a few pousse cafes, and those
 cocktails intended for profitable feminine absorption. As mentioned
 elsewhere, the label is worth the price of admission. . . . Should be on
 elaborate bars, mainly; otherwise it is strictly a bedside table liquid.

DANTZIGER GOLDWASSER . . . Purdy a matter of swank, but al-
 ways effective when with a handsome lady. It is also called Eau de V£e
 de Dantz£g, and is a cordial with a pleasant but unimportant taste, in
 which flecks of real gold leaf flutter and swim about when it is only
 slightly shaken. The gold does no harm and no good.
                        -
DUBONNET . . . A French creation based on wine fortified with herbs,
 and this and that. Universally accepted in France for years, it is just
 becoming appreciated again in America. There are a few cocktails call-
 ing for it. Only needed in the more elaborate establishments.

FIORI ALIPINI . . . The tall attractive bottle of delicious liqueur in
  which a rock candy tree rears its realistic trunk and branches. A fine
  liqueur, but never indicated for cocktails.


FOUR GINS MUST BE IN EVERY BAR
DRf GIN . . . A white spirit flavoured with juniper oils, and too well
 known to describe here. All we can plead for is to get a decent grade, and
 stick to it. No bar can be without dry gin, and be called a bar.

HOLLAND GIN, or HOLLANDS, and sometimes' SCHNAPPS .
 This is a vigorously flavoured gin which must appear on all sizeable

                                  • 185 .
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

  bars. It has a very potent juniper taste, aids digestion, promotes appetite,
  and is needed in several important cocktails like Death in the Gulf
  Stream.

OLD TOM GIN . . . Old Tom has an oilier texture and a slight orange
 taste. Indispensable.

SLOE GIN . . . Totally unlike other gins, being flavoured with the
  astringent blackthorn fruit, or sloe berry. It is ruby red, sweetish, and
 makes delightful and mild fizzes, rickeys, and so on . . . . Should be on
 hand in all well-appointed bars of average type and above.

GRAND MARNIER . . . A delicious French liqueur and useful as a
 pousse cafe, but never specified for cocktails. Tastes faintly like a com-
 bination of curacrao, cordial medoc and Benedictine-with orange basis
 predctminant.

GRENADINE . . . This, as the name indicates, is a syrup flavoured
   with the juice of pomegranates. No bar, regardless of its modesty can
,. be without this need. . . . Don't be deceived by inferior American
   imitations of the real thing. Be sure and get the imported.

HONEY . . . This man-stolen product of bee's industry is, in its strained
 state, useful now and then in special cocktails. A small, cup-size, covered
 porcelain or china container should be on every thoroughgoing bar.

KIRSCHWASSER, or KIRSCH . . . This odd liqueur is made prin-
  cipally in the Black Forest sector of Germany, in France and Switzer-
  land from small black wild cherries. These are fermented in wooden
  containers, stirred at intervals, and probably a few of the cherry pits are
  crushed with the cherries-which imparts the faint hint of bitter al-
  ~onds .... Taken as a liqueur it is somewhat of an acquired taste, but
  m_punc?es or in cocktails the flavour intrigues everyone who tries them.
   Kirsch is, of course, the same as Kirschwasser. No bar can be without
   a bottle.

KOMME~ · · . A white, pungent liqueur made from cumin and caraway
  s~eds, with the latter taste dominant. A great favourite with the Rus-
  sians of royal days as most of it was made in Riga, pre-Soviet. Now

                                  • 186 .
                 THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

  Germany produces most of it. . . . Like anis and anisette, kiimmel is
  a great stomachic, relieves pains, collywobbles, aids digestion, and is
  specified in enough cocktails that it should be on the shelf of every
  average bar . . . . Swans, bears, and what-not, determine the shape of
  the bottles, and ~ose with sugar precipitated on the bottom are held to
  be best-one brand ·having a sugar-frosted sprig of edelweiss in the
  swan's neck.

ROSE'S LIME SYRUP, and LIME CORDIAL . . . The former is a
 pungent oil-of-lime syrup coming in tall, slender, decorative bottles so
 often seen behind good soda fountains. It is indicated in the Gimlet
 Cocktail, Page 37, and bears a lot of experimentation . . . . Lime Cor-
 dial can be made by mixing this about half and half with gomme syi:up,
 see Page 154. . . . Lime syrup of soda fountain type also approximates
 the result. These should be used more by American mixers!

MADEIRA . . . A bottle indicated for the well-stocked outfit. It is called
 for in one special cocktail, and used as flavouring in others.

MARASCHINO . . . Another delicious cherry derivative, fermented and
 distilled, then flavoured by the bruised cherry stones themselves. Mara-
 schino is so essential that-no fairly equipped bar can afford to be with-
 out it.

CREME de MENTHE ... Two kinds of peppermint flavoured liqueurs;
  green and white. The former for flavouring special cocktails, for frappes;
  the latter for Stingers; both for cordials .... Must be on every complete
  amateur bar shel£

CREME de NOYA.U . . . A very sweet but potent apricot liqueur. Wise
 men take it with coffee, and only one or two. In peach and apricot pits
  there is a cyanide influence which most people don't know about, and
  over dosing will definitely become injurious. In small amounts it is per-
  fectly s.li'e. . . . In France they also frappe it in a glass of fine ice, livened
  up with a little seltzer or soda.

OJEN . . . The so-called Spanish Absinthe. Needed by larger bars, and
 used like ordinary Absinthe. For many years this was made in New
 Orleans.

                                      . 187 •
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

ORANGE-FLOWER WATER . . . A delightful flavouring agent for
 many delicious drinks like New Orleans Fizzes. Not used in every day
 practice, but necessary for the average complete mixer.

ORGEAT SYRUP . . . One of the needed bar flavours, compounded
 from almonds, orange-flower water, and sugar, see Page 166. Every well-
 stocked bar must have it; small bars ignore it.

PARFAIT AMOUR . . . Another of those highly coloured cordials
 hatched in the fertile and agile brain of France. It is also erroneously
 conceded improbably persuasive powers, but is very pretty in pousse
 cafes, and many ladies prefer it with coffee.

PEACH BRANDY . . . Mainly domestic. It makes a nice, although very
  sweet, business to take with coffee . . . . Used in Georgia Mint Julep, as
 on Page 66.

PORT WINE . . . Needed in enough unusual cocktails to make it neces-
 sary on any fairly well stocked shelf. Also an essential after coffee in any
 civilized community.

ROSE WATER . . . Used very rarely; only for the most elaborate bars.

RUM of THREE BASIC TYPES . . . Bacardi, Carta de Oro, and Carta
 Blanca; which are light brandy-type rums . . . . Barbados, St. Croix,
 Haitian, or Demerara rum, which are the darker, medium type. . . .
 Jamaica, the dark, richly flavoured type. . . . All three are needed ... .
 All rums are distilled from fermented sugar cane products . . . . Watch
 Demerara rum! We've run into some nice gentle types from there that
 run 160 proof-or 80% alcohol! The strongest bourbon is only 50%.

SAKI . . . Japanese rice wine, and much like Chinese rice wine. It is
  mild, useless for cocktails, but heated quite hot makes the proper ac-
  companiment for Suki-yaki, the Japanese classical dish. Saki service
  sets with thimble cups and porcelain bottle are obtainable in larger cities
  or from Japanese or Chinese restaurant folk.

S~ER~Y · · . The dry type makes the finest cocktail known, served as-
 1s with a dash of bitters. All bars must have a bottle, for there are still
 essentially sane people who prefer it to any chilled, mixed drink.

                                   . 188 .




                                   •
                    THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

SWEDISH or CALORIC PUNCH . . . A much overrated affair, and
 which always stands neglected on our shelves for long. Drunk mainly
 by folk who expect a stout blow, and get a pat instead. Hints palely at
 rum and no one knows what else.

THE SIX CHIEF SYRUPS . . . Plain gomme sugar, or bar syrup-as
 on Page 154; grenadine as on Page 186; lime, pineapple, raspberry and
 strawberry-the latter quartet being those used at better soda fountains.
 Average to big bars need all five; small bars, plain syrup and grenadine.

TEQUILA . . . An exotic from Mexico which impressed us enough to run
 in three or five mixed drinks and cocktails. It is buyable in most average
 American towns, on slight notice-and everywhere in the Southwest.
  . . . Distilled from the Maguey plant, see Page 127.

VANILLA . . . Creme de Vanille is usually specified for cocktails but
 there are a very few exotics which indicate the extract, and in this case
 a raid on the kitchen shelf will probably bear fruit.

CREME de VANILLE .. : Indicated in a few cocktails, but rarely. Only
  for large bars.

VERMOUTH .            There are two basic types: The dark, more richly
 flavoured Italian variety imperative in many cocktails, as well as alone,
 with soda, and with cassis, as an aperitif; the light, or "dry" French
 vermouth, without which a Dry Martini would be a wet, old-fashioned
 Martini. . . . Both are wines fortified, and stepped up with various
 secret herbs. They aid digestion, promote appetite. . . . No bar can be
 without both, and better have two bottles of each. They go fast!

CREME de VIOLETTE, and CREME YVETTE . . . Made with vio-
  lette flower essence and of a rich violet hue used to colour certain few
  cocktails; much preferred by girls who think they are being sophisticated
  in ordering something out of such a funny shaped bottle, and by gentle-
  men who erroneously think it possesses congressional powers little short
  of miraculous.

VODKA . . . This, although for a time banned by the Soviet, is still
 easily to be had. Theoretically it should never be sipped, but tossed off
                                  . 189 •
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

  with a flip of the head, like Aquavit, which in many ways it resembles.
  It is a potent white liquor which should be on every complete bar shelf,
  but unnecessary to medium or small bars. Formerly made from rye and
  barley malt it is now made from corn and potatoes. The proof runs as
  high as 120, which means 6oo/o alcohol, so take care.

THE COMP ANY of WHISKIES, which ARE BOURBON, IRISH,
 RYE, and SCOTCH . . . Bourbon and rye are needed for very many
 important cocktails, besides a host of mixed drinks. . . . Irish is indi-
 cated for a few cocktails, hot toddies, and highballs. . . . Scotch is not a
 happy cocktail mixer, unfortunately, and its main value is in a highball
 called "whiskysoda" around the civilized and uncivilized world.
    The smallest bars need bourbon or rye, and Scotch. Medium require
 bourbon, rye and Scotch. . . . Large require Irish as well.
    Bourbon, Irish, and rye run close to 100 proof or 5oo/o alcohol. Scotch
 a trifle milder, around 4oo/o . . . . All are distilled from malted or fer-
 mented grain: corn, barley, rye, and so on, and flavoured by the waters,
 minerals, dusts, pollens and what-not native to their place of origin.
    Due to the same mysterious natural factors which make the Spey River
 Valley g~ for Scotch-just so the water, climate, and so on of Mary-
 land prove toward good rye, and Kentucky toward sound bourbons.
  . . . This is no argument against the location of the immense modern
 distilleries everywhere-but a simple statement of proven history. . . .
 There are peanut-fed smoked hams outside Virginia-but Virginia is
 known to the world; there are crabs and crabs, but the Florida and West
 Indies stone or Morro Crab is something else; there are soups and soups,
 but a New Orleans gumbo is super-just like brandy from France's
 Cognac region, scuppernong wine from our own North Carolina, An-
 gostura bitters from Trinidad. . . . Bear this in mind when American
 whisky stocks get decently aged and within range of a sane man's bank
 balance again. . . . As they will I
    Taken sanely and in moderation whisky is beneficial, aids digestion,
 helps throw off colds, megrims, and influenzas. Used improperly the
 effect is just as bad as stuffing on too many starchy foods, taking no
 exercise, or disliking our neighbour.

WHITE MULE, CAWN LIKKER, SHINE, MOON, et al. . . . Re-
 gardless of alias this sequence simply means the raw, new, colourless,
 distilled product of fermented corn mash, sugar and water. . . . If well
 made, of decent materials, in a proper still, with the fusel oil rectified

                                  • 190 •
                                 THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

                  out, and aged in wood it starts to be bourbon whisky after not less than
                  four years in the wood of charred oak casks. . . .
                     None of the manufacturers of bourbons should have any right to
                  call any corn w hisky "bourbon" until it has aged at least four or five
                  years, but the demand so exceeded supply that all rules were off.
                     As far as corn likker goes we have drunk it &om a fellow quail and
                  turkey shooter's still in the Big Swamp country of Central Florida-
                  made in a copper wash boiler, run through an old shotgun barrel, and
                  a length of iron pipe into a galvanized washtub covered with a cotton
                  blanket; drunk it in the "dry" mountain sections of Nawth C'hlina last
                  summer. We have drunk it straight, with water, with juices, and dis-
                  guises. We have drunk it scalding hot on chill October evenings, with
                  cloves, brown sugar, a~d lemon peel. We've drunk it cold.
                     In spite of hades and elevated water that old cawn bouquet comes
                  shearing through like a rusty can opener to smite us between the eyes.
                   . . . Hot with cloves, and so on is best; drowned in grapefruit juice is
                  about the only cold method possible. . . . No matter what, that cawn
                  has a scent of decaying vegetation blended with the fluid men used to
                  put in old ship lanterns; and taken neat it burns with all the restless fires
                  of hell.
                     As you may gather we don't recommend cawn-mentally, morally; or
                  for general wear and tear arrd declined insurance risk, physically. We
                  certainly don't-until after ~t least .five years in charred oak casks.


                A FEW NOTES on the CARE & SERVICE of OuR BEST UsuAL
                WINES, as THEY AFFECT the .AMATEUR
                WE ALWAYS have believed that one reason most Americans know noth-
                ing about wines except champagne, claret, port, and sherry, is due to
                a practical non-existence of a truly leisured class within our shores.
                Everyone who doesn't leap out of warm sheets at command of an
                alarmclock daily, rush through a shave, a hurried breakfast and a dash
                to an office is.i.;,_for reasons no sane soul has ever been able to explain to
                us-viewed as not quite Worth While, and lacking the proper attitude
                toward life. Any young person under fifty who stops work when he
                has enough worldly wealth to eliminate the daily grind, is ra butt for
                whispers, raised eyebrows; he is considered not quite Worth While.
                  What we mean is that nothing about wine can be hurried. It takes

                                                    • 191 •




,
           __
_,....,,,..,    ~
               THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

  an allotted length of time for grapes to grow and ripen, more time to
  ferment, still more to age properly in barrels and later in bottles. It
  takes a man time to learn about wines, time to drink them, a lifetime
  of appreciation to value them. The chap who is Worth While, and
  who spends half his life sprinting to offices, naturally has n't time in
  all that milling about to slow down enough to notice wines. He wants
  quick action from his spirits, not leisurely sipping and pauses for ap-
  preciation. Few Americans have ever learned to play. There is noth-
  ing sadder than most American Big Business out of the office. We
  have seen a lot of it lately in that predicament, and a more restless,
  half-lost bunch of sagging muscles, golf alibis, and short breaths we've
• never seen.
     Abroad, in all the wine lands, men have learned to play-at least
  after a fashion-leisurely, calmly; not fiercely, as though it were a
  matter of grim life and death. Our Britisher starts his week-end
  Friday noon, often as not. A whole French family will lie under trees
  throughout a Sunday, doing nothing in particular-a form of relaxa-
  tion which would have the American Man Who Matters in a padded
  cell from sheer triple-distilled boredom.
     Our great outdoors inheritance in conquering the great west has
  left us with story and song about two-fisted, two-gun, five-fingered
  drinkers of raw likker-who tossed off a tumbler full of red eye with-
  out a blink. All this sort of thing has got us to thinking we are a stout
  race of monstrous manly fellows, and the thought of dallying with a
  cobwebby wine cork, and sipping such meek and mild fluids out of
  a tiny and delicately stemmed glass, appears just the slightest bit
   effeminate; something grown men left to the companions of older
   women and visiting alleged foreign titles.
     In other words America has always consumed hard liquor. She
   always will, but we are delighted to see the recent renaissance of in-
   terest in proper wines, along with that renaissance in good cookery
   we mention through Volume /-and most encouraging of all, in-
   terest in our truly fine American wines, of the type made by our friend
   Paul Garrett's family for well over roo years .

                                   • 192 •
                 THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

  Actually our first experience with wine service is utterly simple,
easy, and without any more problem than a little chilling if, and where,
indicated.

THE FIRST ABC of WINE SERVICE
White Wines: go with seafood, light-meat poultry; with fruits, sweets, and
  desserts. . . . Champagne, although white, is traditional with game or
 throughout any meal, if and when desired.
Red Wines: go with meats generally, and dark meats in particular; with
 entree, game, and roast. . . . Port goes with cheese.
Not with Salad: as a general rule wine is skipped during the salad course,
 the acid dressing interferes with the true wine taste.

WINE TEMPERATURES
   White wines must be chilled, except of course the tawny fortified
types like sherry, Madeira, Marsala and so on.
   Red wines should never be chilled, except what we buy as Sparkling
Burgundy.... Bordeaux red wine should be served a trifle higher in
temperature than -the dining room. . . . Burgundy red should be
slightly cooler, or as it comes from cellar.
   The easiest way to handle a red claret wine is to decant it and let
stand in the dining room for three or four hours before pouring, see
Pages 195 & 196.
   Serving a red wine really chilled would hamper its taste and flavour
severely. For further thoughts on red wines in the Tropics, turn to
Pages 197 & 198, and not too distant, below.

SIP WINE, DON'T DRINK IT
   Somewhere the fiction got about that wine was made solely to
quench thirst. So it may be, beside the hearth of our worthy and
horny handed son of toil, perhaps, but no amateur worthy of the name
ever gulps decent wine. Water is for satisfying thirst, wine is to be
sipped and enjoyed.                              '
  First twirl a half filled glass, and watch the lovely jewel-like colour
fan up on the empty inner side; then sniff it in leisurely fashion to
catch the bouquet.

                                 • 1   93.
               THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

    Sip, twirl the tongue, and enjoy each succeeding nuance of taste as
 it strikes the taste buds, palate, and rebounds through a renewed sense
of smell from the posterior section of the nasal cavity. Then swallow,
and catch the final after-taste.
    Americans can't get used to having restaurants put bottles away
for clients to call on later. Some wines, of course, do not keep for more
than a few hours after being opened, but most regular patrons of any
given spot have their bottles labelled, corked tightly, and properly
cared for until their next visit. For this reason, and possible Scotch in-
stincts through not wishing a waiter to get an unused half bottle,
Americans gulp all their wine to the last drop-thereby not only
drinking too fast but surfeiting themselves with so much vinous fluid
that true appreciation, after the first brief introduction, is impossible.

  WORDS to the DRINKING WISE No. XX, on the OPENING of
  GLASS STOPPERS of DECANTERS if and when STUCK
  Dr. Kitchiner, 1823
     "With a feather rub a drop or two of salad oil around the stopper,
  close to the mouth of the Decanter, which must then be placed before
  the fire . . . not too close . . . the heat will cause the oil to insinuate
  itself between stopper and Neck.
     "When Bottle or Decanter has grown warm, gently strike the
  Stopper on one side, and then the other, with any light wooden instru-
  ment; then try it with the Hand; if it will not yet move, place again be-
  fore the fire, adding another drop of oil. After a while strike again as
  before. . . . However tightly it may be fastened in, you will at length
  succeed in loosening it."
     This is a sound bit of advice, for we remember the sad experience
  of breaking a specially fine cut crystal decanter stopper in a brandy
  decanter we'd just picked up in London. The sweetness of the spirit
   had sealed the stopper in tight as glue, and we were impatient. . . .
   The quickest modern way is to put the outer neck of the decanter un-
   der quite hot water from the spiggot; tap stopper lightly with some-
   thing made of wood-anything not metal, and a twist of the wrist will
   usually loosen it-the heat having expanded the neck to a size larger
   than the still chilled glass stopper .


                                   • 1 94   .
                  THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

THE CEREMONY of STORING and UNCORKING any WINE
WORTH the EFFORT
   Immediately below we give routine for opening and decanting .fine
claret, which is a ceremony in itself, and here we will list briefly the
strict rules. Neglect of any indicates the same lack of courtesy toward
a discriminating guest as would be consequent to appearing in a
soiled linen collar.
I. Store in cellar on racks with necks slightly up. This eliminates the
   risk of sediment on the cork.
2. A truly fine wine should be gently lifted from rack, wiped off and put
   carefully in buffet or wine-basket three or four days before serving, so
   that any disturbed sediment can settle once more. . . . Wine bottles
   worth opening are always dusty. Take them up gently so as not to stir
   up; carry them like new born babes, put down gently.
3. Carefully wipe off the neck, then remove foil, sealing wax, and such.
    . . . But don't overdo and wipe all the signs of age from the bottle-it
   is a happy picture to the epicure,
4. Use corkscrew precisely, don't shake bottle; drawing cork with a gently
   slow action, if the self-drawing corkscrew isn't on hand-don't yank
   it out for the dramatic effect of the pop.
5. It is good form to hold bottle~in white napkin or cloth, and when cork
   is out, to wipe out neck carefully-being very careful that no old cork
   falls into the wine. A speck of cork in a glass is almost like a fly in soup,
   Messieurs. The final gesture is to offer cork to guest of honour for his
   inspection, who shall murmur audibly his appreciation.
6. If wine is to be decanted at this point, do the job against any sort of
   strong light, pouring steadily, gently, and stop precisely when the first
   film of sediment rises to a point where the next cubic centimeter will
   cause it to flow out into the decanter. . . . Better waste an ounce of
   wine than chance spoiling what we have decanted.
7· If not to be di;:canted, have a little poured first into the host or hostess's
   glass. When we see this done on foreign ships or restaurants it isn't just
   an idle gesture. . . . . From the Borgia regime it indicated the host's
   willingness to prove to guest that the usual dram of poison was omitted
   as a special favour! . . . In more kindly times it indicates that~e host
   pours the first few drops for a preliminary sniff and taste. Poor bouquet,
   or "corked" flavour is .then detected before subjugating the guest to this
   embarrassment, and the bottle can be replaced. It is merely a courteous
   gesture worth keeping alive.
                                     • 1   95 .
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

A PROPER CARE & HANDLING ROUTINE for the MosT
TWEAKY WINE of .ALL-CLARET

I.   Claret must always be handled like a new born babe.
2.   Remove claret from the cellar at least 1 day ahead o.f time.
3. Stand uncorked in a slightly warmer than dining room temperature,
     but do not heat.
4. If fairly young wine stand uncorked for one hour, if older, for up to
    eight hours. This process is called "chambre," or fetching it to "room"
    condition.
5. Draw corks ourself, carefully. Sediment kills claret, and ninety Ameri-
    can bottles out of a hundred are killed, my friends. . . .
6. Have decanter a couple of degrees warmer than dining room, and put
    wine into it slowly but continuously from bottle to decanter-against
    the light.
7. When we see sediment flowing toward bottle neck, stop pouring. That
    lost glass of wine may pain us, but will ruin the rest.
8...Put decanter on dining room sideboard with the stopper out.
9. Drink claret out of large, thin, plain glasses.

   A new or young claret will show a purplish bubble as it first strikes
the glass, and is unrecommended for internal consumption. If the
bubble is a rich red, it is matured, ripe and sound. If bubbles are rich
tawny brown it is over twenty years old, perhaps more. We may then
sit back and brood upon the delicacies of a truly worthwhile wine.
   This simple routine actually takes only a few moments of our time.
The reason we never do it properly is that it requires the mental effort
of thought about a fine point of good living, which many otherwise
important and influential people think foppish, fussy, European, and
highly unnecessary. . . . These above 9 rules must be observed if our
claret is worth the bringing home from the shop. Think it over. How
many of us have ever had decent claret, either in a restaurant, or at
home.
  The average American restaurant's technique on wine is crude and
brutally simple. It is snatched off the rack when ordered, and either
served cellar (or rack) temperature for most red wines, or chilled
more or less. It is handled roughly, carelessly. The cork pops, curious,

                                 . 196.
                  THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

envious, heads raise at neighbouring tables at this wide display of
lavishness, lower again. The wine is hastily poured out-and there
we are gentlemen-we are drinking wine, and God help us!

  EXPLODED OLD ALEWIVES' TALE No. III, IMPROPRIETY
  of HEATING CLARETS
  No matter what nice old Aunt Peola Fittich remembers about claret
  in London's famous old inn The Clieshire Cheese, never heat claret
  artificially. Place it in the room where it is to be served, in the forenoon,
  properly decanted, with the stopper out. Pour at night without further
  treatment.

A WORD on the CORRECT SERVICE of WINES with MEALS,
GIVING FouR EXA.1'1PLEs, or so, of Wrm SEQUENCES & SIMILAR AD-
DENDA
THis CHAPTER on wines makes no pretense to go into types, qualities,
traditional vintages, and the like. This information, often the life
work of gentlemen far mor:c; qualified than ourself to speak of such
matters, is readily available from hundreds of sources-one of the
most charming being a small pocket-size volume by a gentleman and
a gourmet in his own right, Julian Street, entitled Where Paris Dines;
and no amateur should be without it on his shelves.
  But many of these books by experts fail to remember that the aver-
age American amateur, not conceived in a wine-drinking land, may
need a helping hand to guide him over the first barriers. Not being
primarily able to concern ourself with extravagant vintages, Ameri-
cans generally prefer peace and mixed drinks rather than wars and
rumours of wars, and infinite wine knowledge. What we note below
are just about all the needful service essentials.
  Let us explain :z points which have always struck us as not usually
made clear to the amateur. In the first place Game can be a relatively
unimportant course, technically an Entree, or it may be the whole
focal point of a meal-like a vast platter of wild duck, or wild turkey,
and there may be no conventional Roast course included in such a
meal. The other is: where we live in the tropics and dining room tern-

                                    • 1   97 .
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

 perature may, on infrequent summer days, be close to 80 or 85 degrees
 Fahrenheit, we consider it proper to chill all still red wines gently to
 around 60 degrees-and we don't give a worm-eaten fig what long
 haired Gallic gentleman may tear his bangs out by the roots when he
 hears of this heresy.
   We haven't drunk as much wine as a Frenchman but we have drunk
 about as much-probably a great deal more-red wine in the tropics,
 the Oriental hot countries, than the average Frenchman. Therefore,
 bearing in mind there are no cellars in such pays chauds that maintain
 a temperature around 65 degrees, even at 70! anywhere, we cry that
 too-warm red wine is just as bad in its way as too-warm white wine;
 and we earnestly recommend that readers think over this point in
 summer. We feel that red wine should be cool-not warm, not chilled.
 This goes for sherry too, which we find tastes infinitely better here in
~Florida when slightly cooled. It is a simple matter of reason, and not
 letting ourself be bound and swept away by what we've read about
 red wines, what some lame-wit, conceited ass has screamed at us after
 his first and only 5 day stay in Paris; all the fuss and fume that people
 kick up about a subject which is far worse than any mild mishandling
 of wine could ever be!


A SIMPLE FRENCH WINE SEQUENCE with MEALS, No. I
WITH OYSTERS or SEAFOOD COCKTAIL, and SOUP . . . White
 wine; Chablis, or Pouilly; chilled.
WITH the ROAST ... Red wine; still Burgundy at cellar temperature;
 claret at room temperature.
WITH DESSERT . . . Chablis or Pouilly, as at the start; but better
 still would be a somewhat sweeter wine of the average Sauterne type.


 NOW a SIMPLE EUROPEAN SEQUENCE of WINE with
 MEALS, No. II
 WITH OYSTERS or SEAFOOD COCKTAIL, and SOUP . . . Dry
  white wine; Rhine or Moselle; chilled.
 WITH the ROAST . . . A sound glass of any good red wine, not sweet;
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

 room temperature if claret; cellar temperature if Burgundy; Spanish
 dry red wine, or Chianti.
WITH DESSERT or FRUIT . . . A good glass of cool Sauterne, well-
 chilled champagne; or the same white wine as at the start.

A SIMPLE YET PLEASANTLY EFFECTIVE EUROPEAN
SEQUENCE No. III, to GRATIFY a PARTICULAR AMATEUR GouRMET
WITH HORS d'OEUVRE . . . Pale dry sherry and bitters. Vermouth
 or Dubonnet, or Amer Picon; room temperature.
WITH OYSTERS or SEAFOOD COCKTAIL . . . A good Chablis,
 vintage Rhine, or Chilean White Undu"aga, chilled.
WITH SOUP . . . Old dry sherry, room temperature.
WITH FISH . . . Still white Montrachet Burgundy, chilled.
WITH ENTREE . . . Light Bordeaux claret, room temperature.
WITH GAME . . . Champagne of good vintage year, chilled well.
WITH ROAST . . . Red Burgundy, or Chateau bottled claret; former
 cellar temperature, latter _room temperature.
WITH DESSERT or PASTRY . . . A sound Madeira, room tem-
 perature.
WITH CHEESE . . . Port of a good year, room temperature.
FRUIT . . . Tokay, or Malaga, room temperature.
COFFEE . . . Champagne fine, green Chartreuse, Drambuie, room
 temperature.
   In this latter list the service of white Burgundy, of a good year, in-
stead of the usual white Bordeaux, brands any host as being gentle-
man and scholar, and deucedly stout fellow as well. . . . It is a touch
which some true amateur is bound to remark, and one quiet word of
praise on our Montrachet is worth all the parrot-like praise of casual
champagne, from a multitude. . . . Chilean Rhine type Undurraga
we discovered four years ago on a Grace Line boat on a Panama trip.
It is as fine as most Rhines, and greatly approved by connoisseurs, we
now find. Comes in a cute squatty bottle.

A SPECIAL OCCASION SEQUENCE No. IV, & Goon ENOUGH
for RoYALTY
WITH HORS d'OEUVRE GENERALLY                          Be sure and don't
                                 • 199 •
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

 serve too rich hors d'oeuvre before a fine dinner; skip mayonnaise types.
  . . . Serve a fine dry sherry, with or without bitters, or a D aiquiri, not
 too sweet, see Pages 30 & 3I.
WITH CAVIAR . . . Vodka or kummel in liqueur glasses, or a really
 good Dry Martini.
WITH OYSTERS . . . Chablis, La Moutonne or Grenouilles, of good
 year. Sc/doss Jol1annisberger Rhine, or Berncasteler Doktor Moselle, of
 excellent years, chilled.
WITH SOUP . . . Fine old dry sherry.
WITH FISH . . . Still white Burgundy like Meu1·sault Perrieres, a white
 Cotes-du-Rhone Hermitage, or dry white Bordeaux Chateau Haut-
 Brion Blanc, or Ch ateau Margaux Pavilion Blanc-choosing a good
 year; chilled.
WITH ENTREE . . . A fine light claret like Chttteau Carbonnieux
 Rouge of good year, or Chateau Haut-Brion Rouge might be better still,
 to tie up with its white sister accompanying the piscatorial friend above;
 ro0m temperature.
WITH GAME . . . Vary the procedure with a white still champagne, in-
 stead of the usual sparkling champagne which would do well with
 game-all this provided the game be fairly light like pheasant, and not
 dark like hare, wild duck, or venison. . . . In former case a good white
 still champagne would be a Verzenay of Sillery; for darker game try a
 red still champagne like Chateau Montfiaubert or Ay. In the case of still
 white champagne, chill; in serving red still champagne it can be chilled
 slightly, or served like Burgundy from a cool cellar.
WITH ROAST . . . Grand Vin Romanee Conti, or Grand Vin Clos de
 Vougeot, choosing a vintage year for red Burgundies, and serving cellar
 temperature not over 65 degrees Fahrenheit.
WITH VERY SPECIAL VEGETABLES . . . A good Tokay is in
  order. Room temperature.
WITH DESSERT or SWEET . . . Choose a fine Sauterne, of which
  Chateau Yquem is finest of all, or Chateau Guiraud, or Chateau Rieus-
  sec; or a glass of fine Tokay or Madeira-all should be of good years.
  Sauterne may be cooled; the others room temperature, of course.
WI~ CHEESE . . . A fine old ruby or tawny port, of good vintage,
  hut if the cheese is of a strong type omit wine altogether.
WITH COFFEE . . . A fine liqueur Brandy, or champagne fine; Cor-
  dial Medoc, or Green Chartreuse .


                                  • 200.
                 THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

  WORDS to the DRINKING WISE No. XXI, on the EXCEL-
  LENCE of SERVING THE CHEESE BEFORE the DESSERT
     The French they are a canny race. Knowing that only a sip of red
  wine can possibly harmonize with cheese, then change our order, and
  serve it before the sweet-thus enabling a guest to use his final few
  sips of Burgundy in proper fashion. Otherwise it means an extra wine
  course like a good port. Try it some time. No one will notice until
  the thing is done, then they will see the logic.


  WORDS to the DRINKING WISE No. XXII, on the BEST MO-
  MENT for SERVING CHAMPAGNE at a MEAL
     Just note the sequence above. If other wines precede it, always serve
  the champagne with the first hot meat course, in this case the game.
  If sparkling wine is served after too many hot courses, gases are re-
  leased more potently, causing a tendency toward heartburn, for those
  who tend. A great many tend.


A THOUGHT on SERVING ONE WINE THROUGHOUT
theMEAL
   Many gourmets often and connoisseurs who know whereof they
speak, claim that all this business of having four or five varieties of
wine with a meal is sheer boasting, and that if a wine is sound enough
to deserve to serve at all, it is good enough for the whole meal. . . .
Usually this means some white wine-Rhine, Moselle, Bordeaux, still
Burgundy white, or something similar. A white wine will go with
the meat whereas red wine simply doesn't seem to suit caviar, oysters,
delicate boiled fishes, and seafood like shrimps and lobsters-and
with sweets or dessert a white wine fetches out the flavours better.
 · . . In factl there is one school which calls for a dry champagne of
decent vintage now and then for a complete meal, claiming that with
fruits and desserts ·of all sorts the harmony is particularly gratifying.
   Sometime when we elect to serve champagne right thro1ugh a meal
make the added gesture of serving a dry type with the meal up to the
dessert, then changing to a slightly sweeter kind-as dry wine does
not march quite so well with sweets, and sweet pastries .

                                  • 20! •
               THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

WINE at TEA TIME
   The smartest people in America used to serve sweet wine-Ca-
tawba, or Virginia Dare scuppernong, with cake or tiny small cakes,
just as in France a sweet Bordeaux or champagne was often served
with cakes in the late afternoon. . . . Ports, sherries, Malagas, Madeiras
and Marsalas were also offered ... . The old custom has merit. Why
not offer favoured calfers a nip of decent wine and handsome small
cakes, to relieve the eternal tea and macaroons, or cocktails? We've
tried it and the combination tastes so good it's well worth con-
sideration.

  EXPLODED OLD ALEWIVES' TALE No. IV, OVERRULING
  the COMMON BELIEF here in AMERICA, that a TRULY MAG-
  NIFICENT RED VINTAGE WINE-such as an ANCIENT
  PORT, a PRICELESS HOSPICE de BEAUNE BURGUNDY, or
  a . CHATEAU LAFITE CLARET-CAN BE OPENED by
  DRAWING the CORK
     Let us hasten to explain this does not apply to average wines, but to
  the priceless citizens in bottles; to those grand seigneurs whose name
  and dating should be mentioned only in bated breath. . . . In such
  ancient affairs it is just as ruinous to spoil the excellence through agita-
  tion-even with the greatest care-in cork pulling. An agitated great
  red wine becomes an average red wine, immediately. There is no more
  sanity in such spoilage than there is in checking a Raphael madonna,
  uncrated, in a baggage van.                                  ·
      Go to the nearest good hotel or club and get a pair of bottle tongs.
  Heat them quite hot and fasten about the bottle neck just below the
  lower cork end. Count 10, take tongs away, and touch the spot with
  a pad of cloth soaked in cold water. The neck cracks all around in a
  clean break-no fuss, no splinters .... Even during this slight activity
   a fine old red wine should be lifted gently as a babe, and carried so; no
   sudden jolts, no agitation whatsoever. Only in this way can the ancient
   sediments remain in their undisturbed position, and be kept from
   clouding, injuring the whole bottle.

  "Gloomy or depressed people should never be given good food, or any
  sort of wines or alcoholic beverages, as neither will go down well. The
  first quality a gourmet must possess is joie de vivre which implies a

                                    • 202.
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

sparkling, natural satisfaction with life, a genuine appreciation of all
good things in life, a disregard for the bad things, and the creation of
happiness all around him.
" . . . Eons vivants do not overeat or overdrink; they leave the table
with room for further gastronomic enchantments. . . . Indigestion
and intoxication are the two worst punishments a gourmet could
receive . . . .
". . . Speaking of intoxication, it is curious to note that it embraces
five stages: jocose, bellicose, lachrymose, comotose, and morotose. The
first two are not only respectable, but very, very nice; the third not
quite so respectable and not quite so nice; the fourth not respectable at
all, and not a bit nice. As for the fifth, well, it finishes one."
                                            The Vicomte in the Kitchen,
                                            By Vicomte de Mauduit,
                                            1933




           11




                                                               I   I




                                 • 203 •
                   INDEX OF DRINKS
                                                                    PAGE
Absinthe in General .                                          7, 8; 180
Absinthe Cocktail, Harry's Bar; Paris                                   7
Absinthe Drip, Saigon; French Indo-China                                8
Absinthe Frappe, Cairo .                                                9
Absinthe, Mixing Technique                                             IO
Absinthe Phosphate, Picker-Upper .                                    83
Adios Amigos Cocktail, Army & Navy Club; Manila                       IO
Admiral Schley Planter's Punch                                       IIO
Advice for Those Departing for the Bars, & Other Emergencies 169 to 175
Alamagoozlum, J. Pierpont Morgan, Sr.'s Own                           11
Ale Hot Drinks                                                    51, 52
Ale Mulling Technique .                                               53
Amer Picon "PoufBe Fizz," Two Types                               11; 43
Angels, A Brief Company of Six .                               94 to 96
Angel's Blush .                                                       94
Angel's Cherry; Mentone, French Riviera .                             95
Angel's Dream, Paris                                                  95
Angel's Kiss, Paris                                                   95
Angel's Tit No. I .                                                   95
Angel's Tit No. II, Paris .                                           96
Angostura Bitters, Its History & Virtues; also an
     Alleged Formula for Home Construction . ·          150 to 152; 182
Angostura Bitters, How Much per Gallon Cocktails .                   179
Anis, & Anis del Mono .                                              181
Anisette            .                                                181
Antrim Cocktail, Manila                                               II

Apple Brandy . . . . . . . . . . · · · ·                             181
Applejack or Apple Brandy Hot Drink, Jersey Lighthouse ·              53
Aquavit      . . . . . .                                             181
A1·c en Ciel, or Rainbow Pousse Cafe, Paris                           96
Aromatic Spirits of Ammonia, & Sal Volatile .             171,175;181
Arrack, or Rack . . .                                                181
Astor Hotel Special Cocktail; Shanghai                                 12
Athol Brose Nos. I, II, & III . . · ·                             12, 13
Auld Man's Milk, Ale Hot Drink ·                                       51
Aunt Emily Cocktail, Havana · · · ·                                    13
Aziz' Special Gin Fizz, Loucqsor, Egypt ·                             39
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

 Baguio "Skin," Luzon; Philippines .                                  14
 Balaklava Special, Nos. I, II, North India                       14, 15
 Balloon Cocktail, ala Firpo, Calcutta                                15
 Bar, or Gomme, or Gum, Syrup .                                     1 54
 Bar, Miscellaneous & Special Equipment                      175 to 178
 Barranquilla Pick-Me-Up Cocktail; Colombia                           83
 Barry Cocktail, Manila                                               15
 Beer Toddy, Hot Drink; Copenhagen                                    53
 Benedictine                                                        182
 Bengal Lancers' Punch, North India                                 102
 Bertita's Special, con Ron Habafiero; Taxco                          16
 Between the Sheets, Jerusalem .                                 16, 17
 Bird of Paradise Gin Fizz, Strangers Club, Colon                     40
 Bitters, The Six Main Types .                                      182
 Bitters, Angostura, & an Alleged Formula for
      Home Construction . . . . . . . . .               150 to 152; 182
JBitters, A~gostura, How Much per Gallon Cocktails .                1 79
 Bitters, Hell-Fire; or Cayenne Wine; How to Make .                 1 53
 Bitters, Orange; Formula for Making .                              152
 Blackberry Wine, Nos. I & II; Old English, How to Make        159,160
 Black Strap Cocktail, Jamaica                                        17
 Black Stripe Cocktail, Jamaica .                                     18
 Black & White Cocktail, or Kirsch au Cafe, Cairo                     69
 Bounce, Cherry; How to Make .                                      1 54
 Brandy from Cognac, & Champagne Fine .                             182
 Brandy, Cherry; Old English, How to Make                           1 55
 Brandy, Rose Liqueur ala Vicomte, How to Make               155 to 157
 Brandy Toddy, Hot; of Peach or Apricot, FlambC                       54
 Bridegroom's Cup, Bavaria .                                          18
 Broken Spur Cocktail, Western Hills; Peking .                        18
 Buck, Barbados . . . . . · · · ·                                     19
 Buck, Jamaica .                                                      60
 Buck, Shanghai; or Cooler                                     122,123

 Cafe Diable, Hot Brandy-Coffee; old New Orleans
 Cafe de Paris Cocktail, Monte Carlo . . . .
 Carolina Plantation Bracer . . . . . ·
 Castle Harbour, Special Cooler, Bermuda . .
 Cayenne Wine, or Hell-Fire Bitters; Trinidad .
 Certosa, a Liqueur

                                 • 206 •




                                       •
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

Champagne Cocktail, Chilling Technique .                               24
Champagne Cocktails Nos. I, II, III IV, & V .                    21to23
Champagne Fine, or Ancient Brandy                                     182
Champagne, Normandy Style, of Apples; How to Make .                   159
Champagne, Time of Service with Meals .                              201
Champagne Vdvet, ala MARMION .                                         25
Champagne Velvet, a Meriveles; Manila Polo Club                        24
Chartreuse Liqueur                                                   184
Cherry Ripe Cocktail; Paris .                                          25
Cider, Norman French Style; How to Make                         157, 158
Claret, Its Handling . . .                                     193; 196
Claret, Impropriety of Heating . . . . . .                           197
Claret, Mulled, ala Gulmarg; Vale of the Kashmir                      56
Cognac, Brandy                                                       182
Cointreau                                                            184
Collins Drinks, Coloured Syrups for                                   76
Colonial Cooler, Sandakan; British North Borneo .                     26
Concussions & Shocks from Divers Causes; First Aid .                173
Cordials & Liqueurs, a Chosen Few; How to Make . 163 through 167
Cordial, Brandy of Roses, a la Vicomte de Mauduit; How to Make      155
Cordial, Creme de Menthe, Green; Paris, How to Mak~ .            · 164
Cordial, Cura<;:ao; Old English, How to Make .                 164, 165
Cordials, Essential Oils for Various Other .                        164
Cordial, Marigold; C~te d'Azut·, How to Make                        165
Cordial Medoc .                                                     184
Cordial, Orgeat or Almond Syrup; How to Make                        166
Cordial, Rock & Rye; Old American, How to Make . . . · ·. 166
Cossack Crusta, The Imperial; Champagne Cocktail; from Shanghai 23
Cossack Punch, Hot Drink; Shanghai                                   55
Cream in Cocktails, a Warning .                                      13
Creme de Cacao                                                      183
Creme de Cassis, Made of Black Currants; France                     183
Creme de Noyeau . . . . . . . . .                                   187
Creole Contentment, Old New Orleans Cocktail                         27
Creole Fizz, Old New Orleans Receipt ·                               41
Cuba Libre, Original & Improved · · ·                                27
Cuba Reforme, Author's Own Contribution                              28
Cuernavaca Special Cocktail; Mexico ·                                28
Cura<;:ao                                                          185
                                 • 207.
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

Daiquiri Cocktail, The Original, and History .        30,31
Daisy, Santiago de Cuba .                                29
Damiana (See also Pousse Cafes)                         185
Dandelion Wine, Old Colonial; How to Make .             161
Bantziger Goldwasser                                    185
Death in the Gulf Stream, Ernest Hemingway .             31
Decanters, Stuck Tops, How to Open .                     1 94
Dominica "Topet" from the West Indies                     32
Dubonnet .                                               185
Due de Bourgogne Punch, Burgundy                         102
 East India House Cocktail, Bombay                        33
,East India Cocktail, Calcutta                            33
 Eggs in Drinks, A Plea for Fresh                         29
 Egg Nagg, The Clan McGregor . . . . .                    33
 Elderberry Wine, Old English; How to Make          161, 162
 El Morocco Cocktail, Tangier, North Africa               77
 English Bishop, Hot Brandy Toddy .                       54
 Eve's Garden, Paris                                      96
 Eye, To Alleviate Bloodshot State                      1 73

Fainting or Syncope, How to Allay .                     170
Farewell to Hemingway, with Kirsch                          34
"Fining" or Clarifying Wine .                           159
Fiori Alpini                                            185
Firing Squad Cocktail, with Tequila; Mexico .               34
Fish House Punch, Old State in Schuylkill Classic       102
Fizzes in General & Particular                      39 to 44
Fizz, Amer Picon "PoufHe" .                           II, 43
Fizzes, Gin Mainly                                  39 to44
Fizz, ala Violette, Based on Gin .                          44
Flor de Naranja, Spanish Orange Flower Cooler .             35
Flying Fish Cocktail, Colombo, Ceylon .                     35
Fourth Regiment Cocktail . . . .                            36
Fraise d' Amour, Bois de Boulogne, Paris                    36
French Tri-Colour, Paris .                                  96
Gaby des Lys Cocktail, New York 1913 .                   37
Gimlet, Far Eastern Style .                              37
Gins, The Four Types .                              185, 186
Gin & Bitters, or Pahit; Far East .                       38
                                . 208.
               THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

Gin-Blind Cocktail, Commander Livesey's; Bombay .
Gin & Quinine Water, or Gin & Tonic
Gin Fizzes of Varying Types                              39 to 44
Gin Fizz, Ramos', Old Receipt                                  43
Gin Fizz, Tropical; Manila .                                   41
Gin Fizz, a la Violette                                        44
Ginger Cocktail, Montego Bay; Jamaica                         44
Gin Sling, Original Hotel Raffies; Singapore                  45
Glass, Broken, How to Pick up Safely
Glass Equipment for Bar .
Glowing Heart Cocktail; Cairo .
Golden Fizz, New Orleans, Old Receipt
Gomme, Gum, or Bar Syrup .
Good Morning Cocktail; Paris
Gossipe's Bowle, Ale Hot Drink; Old England . · · · · ·
Gossip's Cup or "Tewahdiddle," Ale & Brandy Hot Drink; Old
    England . . . . . . .
Grande Bretagne Cocktail, Nos. I & II; Athens Specials
Grande Marnier . . . . . . . . . . ·
Green Jade Cocktail, Barranquilla; Colombia .
Grenadine Syrup .

Hallelujah Cocktail, Bilgray's; Colon, Panama                48,49
Hanging by Rope, not Morning After, First Aid                   172
Harvard Club Pick-Me-Up, New York          . ·                   84
Headache or Mal de T~te, Proven Remedy for.                     175
Hell-Fire Bitters, or Cayenne Wine; Trinidad .                  153
Hiccough, Hiccup or Hiquet, First Aid for ·                173, 174
Holland Razor Blade Cocktail; Den Pasar, Bali                    85
Home Construction of Bitters, Bounces, Brandies, Wines,
    Meads & Cordials                                      150 to 169
Honey in Mixed Drinks . .                                        186
Honey!Iloon Cocktail, or Lune de Miel; Paris                      49
Hoop Punch, from Manila .                                         50
Horse Collar, Author's Own Hot Rum Toddy ·                        58
Hot Drinks with Citric Juices . · · · ·                          59
Hot Drops, Bengal; or "Raffies' Quiet Relief" ·                 1 74
Hot Helpers of Varying Sorts                                50 to 60

Ile de France Special; Champagne Cocktail
             THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

Jamaica Buck .                                                       60
Jersey Lighthouse, Applejack or Apple Brandy Hot Drink               53
Jersey Lily, Paris .                                                 96
Jimmie Roosevelt, Champagne Cocktail .                               22
Juleps & Their History                                         6I to 69
Julep, "Monk" Antrim's Manila Hotel No. I                            64
Julep Nos. II & III, with Bourbon or Rye                             65
Julep No. IV, with Bacardi; Santiago                                 65
Julep No. V, Lamarr Peach Brandy; Macon, Georgia .                   66
Julep No. VI, Peach Thunderbolt; Tidewater, Georgia                  67
Julep No. VII, Pendennis Club; Louisville .                          67
Julep No. VIII, Manila Polo Club, Brandy                             68
Juleps, Additional, of Rum & Brandy                                  68
Julep Straw Technique                                                69

Kilroy's Bracer    . . . . . . . . . ·
Kingston Crusta (.See Martinique C1·usta, Page 74)
Kirsch ,'or K£rschwasser .
Kirsch au Cafe, or Black & White Cocktail; Paris .
Kirschwasser Punch, France . .
Kitchiner's, Dr. William, "Yard of Flannel"; Ale Hot Drink
Knickerbocker Hotel Punch, The
Kiimmel

Lalla Rookh Cocktail, Tahiti .                                      70
L'Amour Toujours, Paris .                                           97
Latin America Punch, Puerto .Rico                                  104
Leap Frog Cocktail, Manila .                                        71
Leave it to Me, The Bacardi; Philippines                            71
Left Bank Spine Stiffener, Paris .                                  85
Lime Cordial & Rose's Lime Juice . . .                              187
Lintik Cocktail, "Monk" Antrim's Special; Manila               71 to 73
Liqueurs, How to Make; See Cordials . . . .                  163 to 167
Liqueur Cocktails, Technique .                                    73,74
Liquid Symphony, Pousse Cafe . . . . . .                            97
Liquids for Bright Barring . . . . . . ·                     179 to 191
Louis Martin's Famous Pousse Cafe· Old New York                     97
Lune de M~el Cocktail, or Honeym~n; Paris .                         49
Lune de Mzel, Pousse Cafe; Paris . . . .                            97

                                • 2!0 •
                THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

Madeira Wine
Maharajah's Burra-Peg, Champagne Cocktail No. I, with Brandy .
Mal de T ete, or Headache, Proven Remedy for                     175
Mangareva Cocktail, Alfred Barton's Miami Beach Surf
    Club Masterpiece                                               73
Maraschino                                                       187
Marigold Liqueur, Cote d'Azur .                                  165
Martinique Crusta (See Kingston Crusta, Page 69)                   74
Mead, Old English Nos. I, II, & III; How to Make            167, 168
Measurements for Drink Mixing, & Technique                 178,179
Menthe, Creme de                                                 187
Menthe, Green Creme de; How to Make                              164
Mi Amante, Buenos Aires                                           74
Mid-Ocean Highball, or Fizz; Bermuda                              42
Million Dollar Cocktail, Nos. I & II; Tokyo & Kobe, Japan         75
Mint Juleps & Their History (Names Listed under
    "Juleps" in Index) .                                    6rto69
Miyake Hotel Special, Kyoto; Japan                                75
Mojito by Sloppy Joe, Havana; Bacardi Collins                     76
"Monk Buck" from Biarritz .                                       86
Mood Indigo Cocktail, Nice .                                      77
Morning Doctor . . . .                                            87
Morning Glory Cocktail, Nos. I & II                               86
Morocco, El, Cocktail; Tangier, North Africa ·                   77
Mulberry Wine, Old English; How to Make ·                       162
Mulled Claret & Port; Two Hot Drinks .                           56
Mulling Technique for Ale .           . ··                       53

Nacional Hotel Special, Wil P. Taylor's Own Receipt, Havana ·     78
Napoleon II Punch, France . . . . . · · · · · ·                   105

New Orleans Fizz No. I, with Kirsch                               42

Ojen, or Spanish Absinthe .
Okolehao Cocktail, Hawaii .
Old Pepper Cocktail° . · · · · · · · · · ·
One, Two, Three, Four, Original Planter's Punch Formula;
                                                            ' I
    West Indies .
Orange Bitters, How to Make
Orange Flower Water
                                • 211 •
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

Orgeat Syrup .                                                        188
Orgeat Syrup, How to Make                                             166
Oxford University Hot Rum Punch                                        59
Pahit, or Far Eastern Gin & Bitters .                                   38
Palmetto Punch, ala Shelby Langston                                     79
Pan American Clipper Cocktail .                                         80
Pancho Villa Cocktail                                                   80
Parfait Amour, also Used in Pousse Cafes                              188
Parisian Cocktail .                                                     79
Peach Brandy .                                                        188
Peach Pm;i.ch, or Pfirschbowle; Vienna .                              105
Penang Cooler                                                           81
Pendennis Club, Special Cocktail                                       81
Perry, Old English Pear Cider; How to Make .                          169
Picker-Uppers & Their History .                                  81to90
Picker-Uppers of Absinthe .                                       7to IO
Picker-Upper, Absinthe Phosphate                                       83
Picker-Upper, Barranquilla .                                           83
Picker-Upper, Carolina Plantation Bracer                               84
Picker-Upper, Harvard Club                                             84
Picker-Upper, Holland Razor Blade                                      85
Picker-Upper, Ile de France Special .                                  24
Picker-Upper, Kilroy's Bracer                                          85
Picker-Upper, Left Bank Spine Stiffener; Paris                         85
Picker-Upper, "Monk Buck," Biarritz .                                  86
Picker-Upper, Morning Glory Nos. I & II .                              86
Picker-Upper, Morning "Doctor," Old Pepper .                           87
Picker-Upper, Parisian "Good Morning" .                                84
Picker-Upper, Port Antonio Punch; Jamaica .                            87
Picker-Upper, Porto Flip, Army & Navy Club; Manila . .                 87
Picker-Upper, The Prairie Oyster; Not Technically a Drink .            88
P~cker-Upper, Rangoon Star Ruby; Lower Burmah .                      126
Picker-Upper, St Mark's Miracle; Seattle Exotic . .               88, 89
P~cker-Upper, Sunday Morning, by Whitfield Smith .                     89
P~cker-Upper, Sunday Morning No. II . . . . .                         90
Picker-Upper, Swiss Yodeler; Lake Como .                              89
Picker-Upper, Tiger's Milk Nos. I, II, & III . .          129 to 131: 90
Pineapple "Bola" Punch; Fenger's Original Receipt .
"Pineapple Milk" or Leche Preparada Pifia; San Salvador

                                 • 212.
               THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

Pink Lady Cocktail, Miramar Club; Panama
Planter's Punches, & History                             109 to III
Planter's Punches .                                      109 to III
Planter's Punch, Admiral Schley                                 IIO

Planter's Punch, One, Two, Three, Four; Original
     Formula; West Indies .                                     110

Planter's Punch, Santiago de Cuba                               110
Planter's Punch, Savannah .                                     III

Polski Pousse Cafe, Danzig .
Pompier Highball, or Vermouth Cassis
Pontoon Bridge, Cura~o
Port Antonio Punch, Jamaica
Port Wine .            .
Porto Flip, Army & Navy Club; Manila . . .
"Pou.file Fizz" of Two Types; with Amer Picon                II; 43

Pousse Cafes for Divers Purposes                           92 to 98
Pousse Cafe, Angel's Blush .                                     94
Pousse Cafe, Angel's Cherry; French Riviera                      95
Pousse Cafe, Angel's Dream ; Paris      . .                      95
Pousse Cafe, Angel's Kiss, :Paris                                95
Pousse Cafe, Angel's Tit No. I                                   95
Pousse Cafe, Angel's Tit No. II; Paris . ·                       96
Pousse Cafe, Arc en Ciel, or Rainbow; Paris                      96
Pousse Cafe, Eve's Garden; Paris                                 96
Pousse Cafe, French Tri-Colour; Paris .                          96
Pousse Cafe, Jersey Lily; Paris . ' . .                          96
Pousse Cafe, L'Amour Toujours; Paris .                           97
Pousse Cafe, Liquid Symphony . . . · · · ·                       97
Pousse Cafe, Louis Martin's Famous; Old New York ·               97
Pousse Cafe, Lune de Miel, or Honeymoon; Paris ·                 97
 Pousse Cffe, Polski; Danzig . . ·                               97
 Pousse Cafe, Rainbow Plus; Havana                               98
 Pouss.e Cafe, Ring Numbers . . · ·                              93
 Pousse Cafe, Zaragozana's ne Plus Ultra                         98
 Prairie Oyster, Not Technically a Drink · ·                     88
 Presidente Cocktail, Original Havana Formula                     99
 Punch Bowl, Ritual of                                      99, 10o
 Punches of Varying Sorts . . . 90, 91; 102 to 111; 129 to 131; 139
 Punch, Bengal Lancers', North India                            102
 Punch, a la Due de Bourgogne; Burgundy .                       102

                                • 213 •
             THE GENTLEM AN' S COMPANION

Punch, Fish House, State in Schuylkill Classic .                I02
Punch, Garnishing or Flavouring Touches .                       IOI
Punch, Kirschwasser; France                                     !03
Punch, Latin America; P uerto Rico .                            !04
Punch, N apoleon II; France                                     !05
Punch, Non Alcoholic                                            I39
Punch, Peach, or Pfirschb owle; Vienna                          I05
Punch, Pineapple "Bola," Fenger's Original                      !04
Punch, Pineapple Milk, or Leche Preparada Piiia; San Salvador    9I
Punch, St. Cecelia Society; Charleston .                        rn6
Punch, Shepherd 's Sack Posset, Sir Fleetwood's; London         rn7
Punch, Tiger's Milk N os. I, II, & III; from Peking,
    Bangkok, & West Indies
Punch, W assail Bowl, Old Elizabethan; London

Quarantine C_ocktail; Manila's Favourite
Queen Charlotte Cocktail, Virgin Islands

Raffies Hotel Gin Sling, Original; Singapore                     45
Rainbow Plus, Pousse Cafe; Havana                                98
Ramos Gin Fizz, Old Receipt                                      43
Rangoon Star Ruby; Lower Burmah                                 126
"Red Snow," Barcelona Cooler .                                  u6
Remember the Maine Cocktail; Havana                             u6
Riding Club Cocktail; Lexington, Kentucky                       II7
Rio de Janeiro, Jacky Club; Champagne Cocktail .                 23
Rock & Rye; Ho~ to Make .                                       I66
Romance Cocktail, Yokohama .                                    II7
Rose Liqueur Brandy, ala Vicomte de Mauduit, How to Make I55 to I57
Rose Water in Mixed Drinks                                      I88
Rosy Dawn Cocktail, Hongkong                               II8, II9
Rum, The Three Types . . .                                      I88
Rum, H arold Peters' Hot Buttered . . .                          60
 Rum & Honey, or Clairene au Miel; Haiti .                      I20
Rum Hot Drinks . . . . . . . .                             58 to 60
 Rum Hot Drinks with Allspice . . . . . ·                        60
 Rum, Jamaica Type, Technique with Fruit Juices                  16
Rum, Jamaica Type, Technique with Lady Guests Present            20
Russian Cocktail, Peking . . . . . . . . . ·                    II9
                                • 214 •
                THE EX OTI C DRINKIN G B OO K

Saigon Special Cocktail, French lndo-China                         120, 121
St. Cecelia Society Punch, Charleston .                                 106
Saint Mark's Miracle Cocktail; Seattle Exotic                            88
Saki, & Chinese Rice Wine                                               188
Sal Volatile .                                                          171
Santiago Nightcap Cocktail; Cuba                                        121
Santiago de Cuba Planter's Punch                                        IIO
Savannah Planter's Punch                                                II I
September Morn Cocktail; Havana                                         121
Shakers, Proper Type and Construction . . .                             178
Shamrock Special Cocktail; Kelly's Ritz, Panama .                       122
Shanghai Buck, a Cooler .                                               122
Shepherd's Sack Posset, Sir Fleetwood's; London                        107
Sherry           . . .        .                                        188
Sherry as an Aperitif or Appetizer .                                   123
Sherry, Temperature in the Tropics                                     198
Shrub, Temperance . . . . .                                            149
Shrub, West Indian Style; Bermuda                                 123, 124
Smile Cocktail . .                                                     124
South Camp Road Cocktail, Wilson's; Jamaica                            125
Star Ruby, Rangoon; Lower Burmah . . .                                 126
Sunday Morning Cocktail No. I, Whitfield Smith's                         89
Sunday Morning Cocktail No. II . . · · ·                                 90
Sunday Vespers Cocktail; London .                                      126
Swedish, or Caloric, Punch . . .                                       189
Swiss Yodeler, a Picker-Upper; Lake Como                                 89
Swizzles, West Indian . . . . . .                               u2 to rr4
Swizzle, Jamaica Rum; Port Antonio . . · · · ·                         II2
Swizzle, Mallingholm Nos. I, II, III, & IV; Virgin Islands      112 to rr4
Swizzle Stick; What It Is .                                       rr4, rr5
Syrup, Bar, Gomme, or Gum                                              154
Syrups, T e Six Chief                                                  189

Temperance Delights     . . . . . . ·                             139 to 150
Temperance Delight, Angostura Fizz; Trinidad                             140
Temperance Delight, Cassis & Soda; France · · ·                          141
Temperance Delight, "Mock Daisy" Crusta; Panama ·            '· I        141
Temperance Delights, Garnishing of                                       142
Temperance Delight, Ginger Beer, Stone Bottle Type;
   Old English, How to Make . . . . . . .                          142, 143
                                  • 215 •
              THE GENTLEMAN'S COMPANION

Temperance Delight, Punch, Cardinal; England .
Temperance Delight, Punch, Mandarin; Peking .
Temperance Delight, Punch, Pomegranate; North India
Temperance Delight, Punch, Black Tea; Ceylon .
Temperance Delight, Raspberry Vinegar; Old English;
     How to Make                                                146 to 148
Temperance Delight, "Rhubarb Highball," Hongkong                       148
Temperance Delight, Tea Shake; Nassau, Bahamas                         1 49
Temperance Delight, West Indian Shrub; Bermuda                         1 49
Temperature of Wines                                                   1 93
Temperature of Wines in the Tropics .                             197,198
Tequila, & Its History                                       127, 128; 189
Tequila Cocktail, A rmillita Chico; Mexico City                        128
Tequila Special, ala Bertita; Taxco .                                  129
Tequila Por Mi Amante; Mexico                                          129
Tiger's Milk,. Nos. I, II, & III
T oxic Poisonings, How to Alleviate
Turf Cocktails Nos. I, II, & III; Nassau, Bombay, & Havana .      131, 132

Vanilia in Mixed Drinks, & Creme de Vanille .                          189
Vanilla Punch Cooler; Tahiti                                           1 34
Veritas Cocktail, Harvard Club; New York                               1 35
Vermouth .                                                             189
Vermouth Cassis, or Pompier Highball .                                   98
Vicomte de Mauduit's Own Cocktail of Rose Brandy                       135
Violette, Creme de, & Creme Yvette .                                   189
Virgin's Prayer Cocktail; Versailles, France                    132 to 134
Vodka .                                                                189

Waldorf's Last Cocktail; New York                                      136
Waring Mixer; or The Mixer                                               6
Wassail Bowl, Old Elizabethan; London                                  rn8
Waxman Special Cocktail; Palm Beach                                   136
Whisky, the Four Basic Types . . .                                   190
White Mule . . . . . . . . . .                                       190
White Rat Cocktail; Paris . . . . . . .                              1 37
W~ne, Care & Service with Meals; Various Angles                 191to202
Wme, the ABC of Service . . . . .                                    1 93
Wine, Special Care & Handling Technique                              196
Wine with Cheese     . . . . . . .                                   201
                                 . 216 .
               THE EXOTIC DRINKING BOOK

Wine, to Clarify or "Fine" .                                      159
Wine, Hot Drinks Made of .                                     56, 57
Wine, with Various Meal Courses                            197 to 202
Wine, Serving One throughout the Meal
Wine with Meals, No. I: Simple French Sequence
Wine with Meals, No. II: Simple European Sequence
Wine with Meals, No. III: European Sequence for the Gourmet.
Wine with Meals, No. IV: Special Occasion Sequence; Good
   Enough for Royalty .                                      199, 200
Wine, Sip It Don't Drink It                                       193
Wine, Storing Ceremony                                            195
Wine, Tea Time Service .                                          202
Wine, Temperatures .                                              193
Wine, Temperatures in the Tropics .                          197, 198
Wine, Vintage Red of Magnificent Name; Opening Advice . . . 202
Wines, Home Construction Formulae . . . . . . 153; 159 to 162
Wine Construction, Blackberry No. I; Old English             159, 160
Wine Construction, Blackberry No. II; Old English                 160
Wine Construction, Dandelion; Old Colonial .                      161
Wine Construction, Elderbetry; Old English .                      161
Wine Construction, How to "Fine" or Clarify                       159
Wine Construction, Mulberry; Old English                          162

"Yard of Flannel," Dr. William Kitchiner's; Ale Hot Drink         52
Yvette, Cd:me; or C1·eme de Violette                             189

Zaragozana's Ne Plus Ultra, Pouss~ Cafe; Havana.                    98
Zazarac, Original Old New Orleans Receipt                         1 37
"Zeinie" Cocktail; Zamboanga, Mindanao .                          138
Zombie Cocktail, Cap Haitien, Haiti                               1 38



         l•I
                                END
        i




I   I
•
•




    .
l I
