COLLEGE OF AGRICULTURE
    DAVIS, CALIFORNIA
THE FLOWING BOWL
THE FLOWING BOWL

     WHEN AND WHAT TO DRINK




                    BY
         THE ONLY WILLIAM
             (tmiliam 8d)mHrt)




FULL INSTRUCTIONS   HOW TO PREPARE, MIX,
         AND SERVE BEVERAGES




        CHARLES L. WEBSTER & CO.
                    1892



         UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
                    1ARY
  COPYRIGHT, 1891,
         BY
WILLIAM SCHMIDT.
 (All rights reserved.)




             OF
  JENKINS & McCowAN,
       NEW YORK.
                        Contents.

                                              PAGE
HISTORY                                     17-38
  WINE                                         19
  BEER                                         23
  ALCOHOL                                      28
  COFFEE                                       31
  TEA                                          33
  WATER                                        35
  MINERAL WATER                                38


PHYSIOLOGY AND DIET                         39-47

COMPOSITION OF DRINKS AND THEIR ADULTERA-
      TIONS         ,
                                        49-64
  WATER.                                       52
  MILK                                         55
  WINE                                         57
  BEER                                         61
  SPIRITS                                      63

ETHNOGRAPHY    ..
                                               65

OUR ANCESTORS                                  73
  DESCRIPTION OF A GREEK BANQUET               75
  DESCRIPTION OF A ROMAN BANQUET (Prose}       77
  DESCRIPTION OF A ROMAN BANQUET (Poetry)      82
  A ROYAL FEAST AMONG THE HUNS                 86
  A MENU OF EMPEROR CHARLES V                  88

WHAT KINDS OF WINES AND IN WHICH ORDER
      SHOULD THEY BE SERVED AT A REPAST?...    91


SAMPLE MENUS                                   95




                        74847
xif                      CONTENTS.

                                                           PAGE
INTRODUCTION TO MIXED DRINKS                               105
      CONTAINING HINTS TO THE PROFESSIONAL BARKEEPER AND
        GENERAL REMARKS TO THE PUBLIC.

MIXED DRINKS                                               121
      SOURS                                                123
      COCKTAILS                                            125
      PUNCHES (FOR THE BAR USE)                            131
      LEMONADES                                            135
      TEMPERANCE DRINKS                                    137
      COBBLERS                                             144
      FIZZES                                               145
      DIVERSE                                              147


LIQUORS AND RATAFIAS                                        179

PUNCHES                                                    209

BOWLS                                                      237

KALTSCHALEN (BISHOPS)                            ,
                                                           249

EXTRA DRINKS..                                             255

FRUIT WINES                                                 261


POETRY                                                     273
                            preface.


  WHILE having been active for a period of more than
thirty years in the line of hotel and bar business, and

having given my greatest care to mixed drinks partic-
ularly, I have found them to be great favorites among
connoisseurs.

  Repeatedly the desire has been expressed to me as
to where to obtain satisfactory and reliable information
how to prepare such delicious mixtures. A great num-
ber of men received such information from me, as far as
a few minutes' conversation could teach anybody.
  The oftener, however, such questions were repeated,
the more established became within me the conviction
that there was among the public a general desire for a
book containing all advices of such a kind.        The result
of this conviction    is   this   book, that hereby is handed
over to the public.

  Feeling that I had to place on the market only a first-
class manual, in all its details and instructions, I have

given   it   the most particular care and study.Utmost
diligence and attention have assisted me to express my
thoughts in clear and exact terms, so as to enable any
one, even private persons, to understand and compre-
hend how to obtain the most satisfactory results.
  I   might compare mixing drinks with the working in
XIV                        PREFACE.


fractions, especially in circulating decimals; if we are
not very careful in the order in which we do certain

operations, we      most certainly will never arrive      at a

correct result; neglecting following decimal places will

largely affect the correctness of our final answer.        So,
too, in    mixing drinks: The fractional parts of liquors
that are to be mixed, and their order, have to be care-

fully considered,     and without such consideration no
palatable drink may be expectecl.
    I   do not deny that a book on drinks will mainly have
to cover the demands of public resorts, but I hope, and
I   am sure many join me in this feeling, that there will be
a time when reasonable drinking is not looked upon as
a crime; and the time will come when around the table
the whole family sits chatting and whiling idle hours

away, while the sparkling bowl sharpens their wit and
loosens their tongues; when father and grown-up sons
will not leave their homes to seek recreation, but when

they will spend their leisure time in the family circle.
  By careful investigation every impartial reader will
find that nearly all recipes concerning bowls, punches,

etc.,    are made not so   much for the bar-use as for the
family.
    It   may sound strange from the lips of a mixer of
drinks, and still it is the truth     / believe in temperance.
Surely this    my   belief has   no reference to temperance
that identifies itself with prohibition, but    it   has refer-
ence to temperance in the word's true meaning: tem-
pering or moderating the enjoyment of liquors.
                         PREFACE.                             XV


  A habitual drinker will never indulge in beverages
artistically mixed; he lacks the taste of them, as they
do not bring him rapidly enough to his desired nirvana.
In drinking, our aim must be enjoyment, not inebria-
tion.  Thus the culture of mixed drinks will lead us
with greater sureness to true temperance than all blue
laws ever will be able to do.
  Another reason for setting my foot upon the slippery
road of a public writer was the general approval              my
new concoctions met with.       For years I have been
urged to publish the recipes of the same; some of them
have been communicated to the public by the medium
of our leading newspapers, when occasion and demand
seemed to render it desirable.      Never, however, I felt
inclined to giving the reader only a series of recipes.

My ambition took a higher flight.       If   ever   I   was   to

place anything upon the market, it should be a book
containing not only recipes valuable to professional
men  mostly, but one, the reading matter of which
should be of a kind that every intelligent man might
find at least something to arouse his interest. Should
thismy sincere wish find fulfillment, even in a limited
degree, my labor bestowed on this volume I should
not think wasted.
  The reading matter does not claim to replace an en-
cyclopaedia;   I   restrained myself to select only such

subjects as might be of some value to the majority of
my readers.    In the Physiology of Drinking I preferred
to give general hints than an entire treatise on this sub-
XVI                       PREFACE.


ject,   which, treated upon extensively, would by itself
fill   a volume similar to this in size.   The pages about
poetry, likewise, give only a selection of the best poets:
should I have omitted one of the favorites of my es-
teemed readers, I beg their kind forgiveness.
   The drinks themselves are divided into two great
groups, such as served and serviceable at the bar only,
which are enumerated under the heading " Mixed
Drinks," and such as might be desirable for societies
and larger companies, as punches, bowls, etc.
   While thanking   my co-workers for their kind and
indefatigable assistance, and expressing my heartfelt
gratitude to my many patrons for the interest they
took in the book while it still was unwritten, as well as
to Messrs. Chas. L. Webster      & Co. for the care which
they bestowed upon the outfit of same, I deliver these
pages to the public.
  May it be accompanied by kindness, and may it, in
return, be a guide to the reader that will       show him
the path to many a happy hour.

                         Very respectfully yours,
                                A. WILLIAM SCHMIDT.
                        tiJtnc.


  ASIA is undoubtedly the country where the vine has
grown without the helping hand of man, and very prob-
ably the slopes south of the Caucasus, where still now-
adays, as in the Kolchian forest, the vine grows in
abundance and richness.
  Elphinstone    born 1778, died 1859 on his journey
to Cabul, saw in the Caucasian forests the vine growing

wild, and describes how fascinating to the eye the en-

tanglement and coverings of whole forests by the vine
appeared.  Modern travelers report of bunches of
grapes of seventeen pounds in Palestine, and of a vine-
tree on the southern slope of the Lebanon Mountains,

the diameter of which was one foot and a half;      it   was
thirty feet high, and formed, by its twigs and boughs,
a canopy of two hundred feet in circumference.      In the

vicinity ofNaples you may see vines, the stems of
which are only a little thinner than the trees to which
they cling. As to the size of grapes, they are naturally
larger under the glowing sun of the south. Already in
Italy we see exceedingly large bunches;     still   larger
they are found in Greece and Asia Minor.      Near Shi-
raz, in Persia, their length amounts to a yard.     Baron
De Huegel found them of colossal size in Cashmere.
20                        HISTORY


Lady Sale, in her memoirs from Afghanistan, speaks
of grapes of which a single berry weighed one hundred
and twenty-nine grains.
     The mythology of the Greeks mentions the birth of
Dionysos, or Bacchus or what is identical to both, the
home of the vine as taking place upon the mountain
Nysa, a peak of the Hindoo Koosh, an Indian chain
of the gigantic Himalaya system.
  This god was brought up by mountain-nymphs, and
educated by the muses, fauns, the old Silen, and the
satyrs; in harmony with this education his worshipers

represented him as a bewitching youth, with forms re-
sembling woman, and with gladness on his brow, or as
adorned with vine-wreaths, resting among beautiful
women, who, singing and dancing, give us the prettiest
and oldest allegory of "Wine, Wife, and Song."
  He is also represented as rambling over wide fields,
drawn by panthers.
     In a different light appears the vine in the history of
the Jews, but also here, in closest connection with their
elder father;    Noah's wine soon became a favorite bev-
erage    among the Hebrews, who were anything but
teetotalers.
     When the Israelites left Egypt to return to their old
country, Canaan, explorers, sent out, brought back a
huge bunch of grapes, the best proof for the wine-cul-
ture in Palestine at this early time, 1250 B. C.
     The travels of Bacchus allegorically allude to the
spreading of the wine-culture from east to west.
                          WINE.                        21



  According to the myth, it took its way over Arabia,
Egypt, and Libya to Hellas; later on to Italy, and
finally to Spain and Gaul.
  The worship of Bacchus was corresponding to the
importance of the wine-culture, and found its acme in
the Dionysians of the Greeks, and the Bacchanals of
the Romans.
  Historical traditions call the Phoenicians   the    first

wine-growers; they brought the vine to the islands of
Chios, Mitylene, and Tenedos.
  Already, in the year 550 B. C., the process of blend-
ing selected wines was known to the Carthaginians.
  Herodotus and Theophrastus give accounts of the
Egyptian wine-culture, which has long since died out.
  The ancient Persia produced the precious royal wine
of Chalybon,  and the valuable brands of Bactriana,
Ariana, Hyrkania, and Margiana.
  In India the priests, and in    Egypt the priests and
kings, were forbidden to drink, while the Jewish priests
were only prohibited on days of religious services.
  Homerus many times mentions the wine as sorrow-
breaking and heart-refreshing, and as a beverage       for

the gods.
  In Italy wine was first cultivated in Campania.     The
most celebrated wines of ancient Italy were: Falernian,
Faustinian, Caecubian, Massician, Setinian, and those
of Formia, Calene, etc.
  The old custom of adding turpentine to the wine, for
the purpose of preserving, was followed also in Italy;
22                      HISTORY.


hence the resemblance of the tip of a Thyrsus-staff to
the cone of a pine.
     The wine-production of the old Romans was enor-
mous; Caesar presented to the city of Rome at one single
time 44,000 barrels; Hortensius had not less than 10,000
barrels of extra Chios wine in his cellars.
     Gaul (France) was a wine-growing country long be-
fore Germany, as already, 600 B. C., the Phocians in
Massilia, the modern Marseilles, introduced the wine
here.
     Caesar already found in Gaul extensive vineyards;
Ausonius praises the wines of Medoc; Plinius those of
the Auvergne.

     Emperor Domitian ordered half of the Gallic vine-
yards to be destroyed, and in their stead that grain
should be raised; this would have the double effect of

reducing the price of the grain, and of securing better
prices to the wine-growers in Italy.
     Emperor Probus revoked this edict.       Aurelian and
the Antonines planted vines in the Cote d'Or, the best

product of which is still
                       nowadays   called " Romance."

     Charlemagne owned vineyards       in   Burgundy, and
brought the vine from there to the Rhine.
  In exchange for thirty barrels of Chambertin the ab-
bot of Citeaux received from Pope Gregory IX. the

dignity of cardinal.
     During the crusades French pilgrims brought eastern
vines to France.
     The sparkling champagne was not known yet at the
                              BEER.                           23


close of the seventeenth century, as         its   invention was
made by Dom Perignon,            of Hautvillers, during the
time from 1670-1715.
  In the sixteenth century the German wine-grower,
Peter Simon, took the vine from the Rhine to Malaga,
which now supplies us with the most delicious wine.
  But   it would take us too long, and it would very


likely become   annoying to our kind readers, to go fur-
ther into details; only this must not be suppressed, that
America's     first   discoverers, the Northmen, found ripe

grapes   in   looo A. D., and   named the unknown shore
Vinland, a place supposed to be on the coast of Massa-
chusetts.     But the proper cultivation of wine in the
United States reaches back not farther than to the be-
ginning of this century.


                             Seer.
  " BEER is a
                 light, narcotic, alcoholic    beverage, which
charms us into a state of gladness and soft hilarity; it
protects our hearts against stings of all kinds, awaiting
us in this valley of misery;     it   diminishes the sensitive-
ness of our skin to the nettles and to all the bites of the

numberless, detestable       human insects that hum, hiss,
and hop about us.
  " The
         happy mortal who has selected beer as his pre-
ferred stimulant imbeds greater griefs and joys in soft

pillows; surely thus being      wrapped up he will be able
to travel through this stormy life with less danger.
24                                     HISTORY.

     "
         Yes, I find such a perfection of forms, such a softness
and ductility of the tissue in the pale juice of barley,
that      I,   to express        its   physiology with a few words,
                                 to us in our lifetime like a
                   '

might say:             It   is
                                              wrapper
which enables our fragile nature unendangered to reach
                        "
the safe port.'
     This quotation is a verbatim translation from a book,
The Hygiena of Taste, by the world-famous Italian
physician and physiologist, Paolo Montegazza.
     Nobody will to-day declare that Lager, as we usually
call it, has not had the greatest influence upon the devel-

opment of nations, especially those of German descent.
  We do not mean Germans proper of the present time,
but all those nations that trace their origin back to the
German tribes that wandered, during the fourth and
fifth    centuries, over the entire part of Europe, and even
crossed the Strait of Gibraltar into Africa.
  Yet we would be mistaken to believe that beer was
unknown to the ancients.
  Sophocles and ^Eschylos, those famous Greek tra-
gedians, Diodorus of Sicily, Pliny, the greatest repre-
sentative of natural philosophy of Roman times, and

others, already mention the beer (in Greek, zythos).
     Famous breweries were at Pelusium in lower Egypt,
the Beeropolis of the ancients, as nowadays are Munich
in the Old, and              New York, St. Louis, and Milwaukee
in the         New World.
     The Egyptians made their beer from barley.                 The
secrets of brewing after                 Egyptian prescriptions were
                             BEER.                        25


imported into the south and north of Europe by the
Phenicians.  Greeks, Romans, and Gauls enjoyed their
lager: the Romans called it, uniformly with the Gauls,
Cerevisia, from Ceres, the goddess of field fruits.     The
old Saxons and     Danes were extremely fond of it, and
counted drunkenness from it as one of the highest re-
wards awaiting them in Walhalla, their Paradise, where
reside Odin's heroes.
  An old German story has it that Gambrinus, king of
Brabant, was the inventor of beer, and it is in conse-
quence of this that the brewers revere this mythical
king as their patron.
  In Germany, beer was introduced at large during the
twelfth and thirteenth centuries, although already six
centuries ago we find the beer in Germany mentioned;
we dare not omit the phrase of Tacitus in his Germanis
that the Suevians enjoyed a beverage made by fermen-
tation of grain.
  For instance, we find in a law collection of the "Ale-
mannians, a German tribe residing on both sides of
the Rhine, from Basel to Mayence, the remark that

every one belonging to any parish was obliged to give
fifteen gallons of beer to the parson.

  Charlemagne also here did not underestimate the
value of it; for he called the best brewers to his court
and also gave orders how to brew.
  Since 1482, a heavy beer has been made in the mon-
asteries of Germany;    it   was of two kinds, a better qual-
ity for the Fathers and a cheaper one for the convent.
26                          HISTORY.


     In the sixteenth century, the brewing business of

Germany ranked very high and beer was one of the
chief exports of this country.
     The Thirty Years' War destroyed this industry.     The
public prosperity faded and the quality, the reputation
of the beer and the demand for it were likewise dimin-
ished.

  Up to that time beer was made in smaller villages in
every household; after it, especially in lower Germany
and the Netherlands, a specific brewery business was
created, which flourished mainly in Ghent, Brugge, and
Brussels; Ratisbon and Ulm were the brewing centres
of South Germany.
     In cities where, on account of the lack of good cellars,

etc., it was difficult to   make good and palatable beer,
the city authorities ordered beer in casks from abroad,
and these were put on draught in public places, built
expressly for this purpose.
  All persons having visited the old country are aware
of the existence of so-called " Rathskellers," as for in-
stance in Bremen, Lubeck, Salzburg, etc.         These cel-
lars owe their origin to this     arrangement of the city
government; yet these public places changed afterward
from beer into wine depositories.
  Some beers of that time acquired a very great repu-
tation, as those of     Brunswick, Eimbeck, Merseburg,
Bamberg,     etc.

  In England were the better beers, as ale and porter,
not manufactured before the end of the last century; up
                                     BEER.                        27


    to that time the English drank beer resembling the so-

    called " Convent Beer
                                "
                                    of Germany.
       In the second half of our century the breweries

    changed into beer factories.          The increasing prosperity
    after the close of the Napoleonic wars and the founda-

    tion of duty-treaties      between the      different states in-

    creased the riches of the nations and were of enormous
    influence upon the quality and demand of beer.
      At present the Bavarian beer is thought to be the
    best, and the methods followed there are          accepted in
    the greater part of Europe            except England and the
    specific   wine countries        in   North America and Aus-
    tralia,   nay, even Turkey, the inhabitants of which
                          in

    country congratulate themselves that in Mohammed's
    time nothing was known concerning brewing, or Mo-
    hammed certainly would have prohibited his followers
    from enjoying this beverage as well as the wine,
                   " The Man
i




      Bismarck,                     of Blood and Iron," made once
    the remark: "Beer renders people stupid." But the same
    man did not hesitate to use and enjoy it himself, espe-
    cially at his receptions of the members of the Reichstag
    in the Chancellor's Palace, and we still await reports
    that the use of beer has badly affected his mental ca-

pacities.

      During the last three decades new rivals to the Ba-
    varian beer have arisen in Austria, at Schwechat and
    at Pilsen, and last, but not kast, in the great brewing

    centres of the New World.
      The world-wide importance beer has won is best
28                              HISTORY.


illustrated by the different papers devoted expressly to

brewing purposes,       The American Brewer, New
                          as:

York; DerBierbrauer,Qt\\z-&gQ>; The Bavarian Brewer,
Munich; The Beer brewer, Leipsic The Bohemian Beer-
                                           ;



brewer, Prague, and others.




   THE use of alcoholic beverages, such as wine, beer,
etc.,   was known to most nations of ancient times, as
we have seen above; but they were known only in re-
gard to their effect upon the body. In respect to a
fundamental knowledge of alcohol, the ancients were
absolutely in the dark, as the distilling apparatuses of
those times were too imperfect.
  The philosophers of Alexandria are said to have dis-
tilled wine,   and noticed the combustibility of the dis-
tillate.

  We find the expression, aqua vita, or " water of life,"
that was afterward generally applied to alcohol, in the
Latin translation of Geber's writings           eighth century;
yet he does not mention anything about the chief char-
acteristic of the fluid     its   combustibility.
  Since the thirteenth century this fluid has been used
for medical purposes, and all alchemists and physicians

tried to obtain   it   in the greatest possible     concentra-
tion.

  On this account distillations and rectifications were
                             ALCOHOL.                      29


made over and over again.           Raimundus Lullus, born
at Mallorca in the year 1234, suggested that the phi-

losopher's     stone, that    would change all metals into
real gold, might be won from the three natural king-
doms. To have it from plants, one had to begin with
alcohol.
  His theory of the preparation of the substance that
was to become the philosopher's stone follows:
  "
    Accipe nigrum nigrius nigro et ex eo paries octo-
decim destilla in vase argenteo, aureo vel vitreo. Et
in prima destillatione       solum recipe partem prints cum
dimidia, et hanc partem iterum pone ad destillandum.
Et hujus iterum quartam partem et tertio destilla et
hujus recipe duas, et in quarta destillatione pauco mi-
nus quam totum. Et sic destilla illam partem usque
ad octo vel novem vices, vel decies"
  This distillate is afterward once more rectified over
a very slow       fire,   during from twenty to twenty-two
        "
days:       quanta destillatio ejus fuerit leviori igne, tanto
                                             "
subtilior erit in spiritu et fortitudine
  It is hardly worth while to state that Lullus did       not
find
       " the
          philosopher's stone."         We
                                    know "Work is
the true philosopher's stone that changes all metals
into gold."
  The notes of Lullus are, in many points, indistinct;
much clearer are the remarks of Basilius Valentinus
fourteenth century. He recommends the use of car-
bonate of potassium; yet this was accepted much later.
Pure alcohol was first manufactured according to this
30                       HISTORY.


principle by Lowitz, in the year 1796, /. ^.,     more than
four centuries later.
  What we now call alcohol had, from the eleventh
to the sixteenth century, very different       names:     Aqua
ardens, aqua vita, aqua vita ardens, aqua vini, spiritus
vini,   vinum ardens, mercurius vegetabilis, etc.         Since
the beginning of the sixteenth century the name of
" alcohol " was more and more
                              adopted. It derives its
name from the Arabian word          "al-kohl," i. e., a   name
of a fine   powder with which the eyelashes are dyed,
therefore a substance changed into the finest aggrega-
tion of molecules.
     About the nature and composition of alcohol there
were as many different meanings and opinions as there
were writers, and each following more fantastic, if it
were possible, than the previous one. But all these
phantasmagories faded away like fog before the sun
when the great French chemist, Lavoisier, inaugurated
a new era in chemistry by his discovery of oxygen; he

proved that the elementary parts of alcohol were car-
bon, hydrogen and oxygen.
  Originally, it   was used   for   medical purposes only;
but gradually people found  its effect upon the human

body, and drank it, whether  they were sick or not, be-
cause it worked more rapidly than wine and beer.
  The general use of alcohol is of comparatively recent
date not before the fifteenth century we find in Europe
the use of " aqua vita" together with that of wine and
beer.
                               COFFEE.                         31




                              Coffee.

      THE earlier history of the coffee-tree is rather ob-
scure; the Greeks and          Romans did not know it.        Its

fruits   were used    Abyssinia and Nubia, in Arabia,
                       in

since the fifteenth century, and in other countries of
the Orient since the sixteenth century.
   The application of coffee-beans for a beverage had
its   origin in Arabia, and spread from there in the six-
teenth century to      Egypt and Constantinople.          Leon-
hard Rauwolf, a German physician, was likely the first
that made the coffee known in Western Europe by the

publication of his travels in the year 1 573.      In A. D. 1 591

Prosper Alpinus brought some beans as a drug from
Egypt to Venice.
  Coffee was drunk in Italy already in the beginning
of the seventeenth century, in France and England in
the middle, and in          Germany at the end, of the same
century.       A
             more general use of it, however, cannot
be reported before the eighteenth century.
  The first coffee-house in Europe was opened at Con-
stantinople in the year 1551.            A century later, in the
year 1652, another one was opened in London at New-
man's Court in Cornhill by a Greek servant of the
merchant Edwards, whose ships sailed to and from the
Levant.        Paris saw its first cafe opened in the year

1670;     it   was owned by the Armenian Pascal.      The
32                        HISTORY.


next one in the same city was the Cafe Procope, es-
tablished by the Sicilian Procopio, in the year 1725; it
was frequented by all the literary men of France that
visited Paris, and soon became fashionable, but also

the meeting-place of republicans and revolutionists.
     Vienna opened its first cafe in the year 1694;      the
privilege was granted to a Polish citizen for the ser-
vices he had      rendered when the capital was besieged
by the Turks in the year 1683.    Berlin received its first

mocha-temple in the year 1721.
   King Frederick I. of Prussia, an obstinate enemy of
coffee, made the coffee-trade a monopoly; nobody but
the clergy and the nobility were permitted to roast their
own coffee.       The people at large had to pay, in the
royal roasting-houses, from six to seven      times more
than they would have paid at the merchant's.
  In Leipsic the first coffee-house was opened to the

public in the year 1694, in Stuttgart in the year 1712.
     The infamous Jew Suss, founded in Wuertemberg a
coffee-monopoly by granting the privilege of sale only
to such people as were able and willing to pay him for

it   liberally.
  The colonists that sailed out to find new islands and
to found new settlements took the coffee-beans the
decoction of which had become already a necessity
with them.        A mayor of Amsterdam, Wieser,    is   said
to have brought the coffee-tree from Mocha to Batavia,

where he established great plantations; this took place
at the end of the seventeenth century.   From Batavia he
                             TEA.                          33


sent 169 young trees to Amsterdam for the Botanical

Garden, whence the Jardin des Plantes in Paris receiv-
ed one. Captain Declieux took a layer of this to Mar-
tinique, where   it   grew so well that in a few years all
the Antilles could be supplied with trees.
 The consumption of coffee amounts, in England, to
i% Ibs., in France to 2J^, in Germany to 4, in Denmark
to 55^, in Switzerland to 6, in     Holland to 10 to 12, and
in the    United States to more than 9       Ibs.   per head
yearly.




  TEA is the name of a shrub belonging to the Camell-
ia family with alternate and simple leaves, not dotted;

the flowers are large and showy, with a persistent calyx
of five overlapping sepals, and they have           many sta-
mens, their filaments united at the bottom with each
other and with the base of the petals.

  Formerly different kinds were supposed to exist, all
of which were said to be indigenous to China, Japan
and India, until Robert Fortune, known by his botani-
cal journeys, proved the incorrectness of this opinion.

He lived for a long while in the tea districts of China
and India for the purpose of studying the manufacture
of tea; he showed that all sorts of tea that are thrown

upon the market descend from one kind that extreme-
ly varies; this variation is shown chiefly in regard to
the length and width of the leaves;       in the course of a
34                           HISTORY.


thousand years' cultivation a great number of varieties
had sprung forth from this one kind.         The tea shrub
grows in its wild state 6 to 10 metres high; while the
cultivated shrub reaches a height of not         more than 2
metres, or 6 feet.
  The cultivation of tea, according to Chinese tradi-
tions of the fourth century, came from Corea to China,
and from there to Japan in the ninth century.
     About the sixth century the Chinese used to drink
tea nearly all over their country. The Europeans have
tried to plant     and cultivate the tea-shrub in Bengal,
Ceylon, on the western coast of Africa, in Java and
Sumatra, in Brazil, and many other places. In all
these districts the shrub grows, but        is   degenerated
detrimentally, as     its   aroma never reaches that of the
genuine Chinese tea.
  The method of extracting the tein by boiling water
has been known in China as long as the cultivation of
the shrub;       the Europeans, however, learned     it   very
late,   first   by the Dutch East India Company, about
the middle of the seventeenth century, although the first

importation of tea to Europe had taken place already
in the year 1636. England got its first tea in the year
1666.    The consumption of it increased continually, and
was general in the eighteenth century. Although tea
was believed for a long while a sure and reliable drug
for lengthening life, the habit of tea-drinking is not so

widely spread as that of coffee.
  Tea - drinking has become a national habit only
                         WATER.                         35


among the Dutch and the English, who imported the
tea also to their colonies in North America, the United

States, and Canada, to the Cape of Good Hope and to
Australia, likewise to Portugal.    Russia, Sweden, Nor-

way, and the coast countries of middle Europe rank next
  Who does not know of the great tea-riot in Boston
that gave the signal for the outbreak of the Revolution,
and shows the importance tea had obtained at that
time in a colonist's household ?




  WATER was believed to be an element from the very
earliest times down to only a few decades ago.

  Moses mentions, in the first chapter of his Genesis,
water as one of the    first   created elementary bodies.
The Hindoos and Egyptians regarded it the basis of
most of the other bodies.      Among the Greeks, Thales
  600 B. C.   defended the opinion that water was the
only true element, and that all other bodies, plants and
animals included, were formed out of it.
  Diodorus, about the year 30 B. C., suggested that rock-
crystal developed from the purest water, not under the
influence of cold, but under that of the heavenly fire.
This opinion of the development of the stone, the char-
acteristic ingredient of which is silex, is affirmed by its

Greek name, krystallos, or ice.
  Soon others got up and declared rock-crystal was
not formed out of water by heat, but by long-lasting
36                         HISTORY.


cold.    Pliny, after   he has spoken of solids and their
formation out of warmth and cold, says:
  " Contraria huic causa
                         crystallum facit, gelu vehe-
                  Non aliubi certe repcritur quam ubi
mentiore concrete*.
maxime hibernce nives rigent, glaciemque esse certum
est,   unde et nomen Greed dedere"           Seneca Minor and
other contemporaries express the same opinion, as
does also Isodorus of the seventh century.
  Agricola of the sixteenth century is the first philos-
opher who is opposed to it; in his book De Ortu et Cau-
                                  " If the
sis Subterraneorum he says:                  crystal was formed
out of water, it naturally would have to be lighter than
water, for ice floats on water.     He denies emphatically
that any stony material might be formed of water with-
                                  " Satis
out any additional ingredients        :
                                          intellegimiis^
ex sola aqua non gigni lapidem ullum"
     In the seventeenth century alchemists believed that
an occult chemical transformation of water to stone
was possible, and similar fables and humbug were still
believed in during the last century.
     An exception of this rule was Be-cher, who taught
that crystals could not be formed of ice, as they are
found also in localities where neither severe nor long-
lasting cold reigns.
  Le Roy, in the year 1767, tried to demonstrate be-
fore the Academy of Paris, that all experiments made

until then did not prove the possibility of changing
water into earth. He meant, earth was mixed to the
water in a suspended form; that it was not formed anew
                          WATER.                         37


by each and every distillation, but that only a part of
the suspended earth was precipitated, while the greater

part of it was distilled over; that by continuous distil-
lation it would be possible to precipitate more and more

of the suspended earth, but that the same result could
not be obtained with the entire quantity.
  It was Lavoisier    who proved the true origin of this
much-disputed earth; the report of his experiments in
this direction is contained in the annals of the Academy

of Paris for the year 1770.     He showed beyond any
doubt, that water, even after long boiling in glass ves-
sels,   was not transformed into earth, but that the earth
which was found therein     after boiling   owed its exist-
ence to the glass vessel.
  The opinion that water was an element was main-
tained to the close of the eighteenth century.
  Cavendish first, in the year 1781, saw that water was
produced when hydrogen was burned in the flame of
oxygen. In 1783 Watt expressed the opinion that
water consisted of oxygen and phlogiston, by which
name he very likely meant hydrogen. The undoubted
proof for the water's composition of oxygen and hydro-
gen was given by the great Lavoisier in the same year;
the quantitative analysis was first determined by Gay-

Lussac, and Humboldt in the year 1805.         By numerous
exact experiments it is shown that water contains one
volume of oxygen and two volumes of hydrogen, or, to
express the same fact in weight,      it   consists of eight

parts of oxygen and one part of hydrogen.
38                        HISTORY.




                 Jttimral

     ALTHOUGH the first experiments for imitating nat-
ural mineral waters may be traced         back to the middle
of the sixteenth century, yet nearly three centuries

passed by before the manufacture of them left the track
of aimless experiments and was based upon              correct
scientific principles.

     The gigantic development of chemistry during the
last decades of the eighteenth and the first decades of

this   century enabled    scientific   men to prove the ele-
mentary compounds of the mineral waters both qualita-
tively and quantitatively.
     ToFrederick Adolphus Augustus Struve, M. D.,

proprietor of the Salomon's drug store in Dresden, Sax-
ony, we are indebted for the introduction of the mineral
waters into our pharmacopoeia.          Aften ten years' rest-
                he opened his first water pavilions in
less experiments,

Dresden and Leipsic in the year 1820, the first one in
Berlin in   the year     1823, together    with Geheimrath
Soltmann.
  The first pioneer who undertook in this country the
manufacture of mineral waters with great success, is,
to our knowledge, Mr. Charles H. Schultz, and many

others followed his footsteps.
cmlr Diet.
                                  mtfr    Diet.

     WE perceive all the impressions that are caused by
our surroundings through the medium of our senses;
we enjoy nature and its products by these senses and
only by these, each of them being equally valuable.
  " It is to be
                especially noted, first, that each nerve of
sense    only capable of performing the function de-
           is


signed for it. The nerve of sight does not enable us to
hear, and the nerve of smell only enables us to appre-
ciate odors; second, cultivation of the senses, especially

if   begun in early life, will develop their usefulness; it is
true that such training may be carried to the extent of

making them a source of misery.          Certain persons are

painfully conscious of the slightest discord; others al-
most instantaneously detect, with a feeling of disgust,
the inharmonious blending of tints which, to the aver-

age person, is a harmonious one; others, still, are made
uncomfortable by an odor which is perceptible to none
but themselves.
     "
         Cultivation furnishes the accurate hearing of the
educated musician, the keen eyesight of the reliable
pilot,     engineer, and expert microscopist, and the ac-
curate touch of the blind."

     now, the senses of sight, touch, and hearing may
     If,

be trained to the blessing of mankind, why should not
the same be done with the senses of taste and smell ?
42                PHYSIOLOGY AND DIET.

In  some men these two senses are of higher sensi-
bility than in others, and we have hardly ever heard
that these persons were dissatisfied with their superi-

ority.
     " Taste is the sense
                            by which we discover and recog-
nize the flavors of substances.        It   is   made possible
through the mucous membrane of the tongue, of the
soft palate, and of the back part of the throat, these

being, in fact, the organs of taste.         Only those sub-
stances can be tasted which are dissolved.      These, by
endosmosis,     penetrate     the   mucous membrane, and
reach thus the nerves of taste.      Accordingly, dry sugar
or salt placed upon the tongue is not tasted         till it   be-

gins to dissolve."
     The finer the comminution of food, the sooner is it
dissolved and tasted.
     Taste is one of the means by which we distinguish
between proper and improper articles of food.             But in
determining the nature of such articles, it         is   assisted

by the other senses.        Undoubtedly much pleasure is
lent to the taste of certain substances
                                   by their appear-
ance and odor; accordingly, one and the same meal
will   be higher appreciated when served in         fine china,

on a well-spread table; a drink will be twice and thrice
as palatable if prepared by a fine-looking bartender, in
fine cut glasses to delight    the sight, and when accom-

panied by a pleasant remark to charm the ear.
  Taste in the human being, and also in some of the
lower animals, is more or less influenced by imitation,
                 PHYSIOLOGY AND DIET.                         43


habit, surroundings, and training.    Children fancy cer-
tain articles of food   and dislike others, because other
members     of the family do the same.    That taste may
be developed, especially when assisted by the sense of
smell, is seen in expert tea and wine tasters.

  Although the sense of smell is in man not so acute
as the other senses, and its impressions often need to
be confirmed by the others, we would be very wrong
to undervalue it. Odors, to be recognized, must be
presented in a gaseous form, when they are forcibly
drawn up by inspiration into the higher portions of the
nasal fosses.
  There is no doubt that the sense of smell may be
highly developed, especially in conjunction with other
senses, or in case these are     deficient.   It   is   related
that a certain blind and deaf mute was able to recog-

nize, by the sense of smell, any person with       whom he
had previously come into contact.


  Every part of an organism is subject to certain alter-
ations,   caused by mechanical or chemical action;            it


gradually ceases to work when the products of reaction
are   not eliminated, and the loss of material          is   not
equaled by fresh nutritives.   Accordingly, we may say
that the natural condition of every organism depends

upon digestion and assimilation.    How these two
functions work we do not intend to demonstrate, as it
can easily be found in any treatise on Physiology; only
this we may be permitted to say, that the materials
44                PHYSIOLOGY AND DIET.


brought into and dissolved and changed within the or-
ganism are the true ministers of said operations. The
digested parts of this supply are absorbed by the blood,
and deposited by it where need may be, while those
parts worthy to be ejected are carried         away by the
same medium, and delivered for expulsion to kidneys,
lungs, glands, etc.
     If necessary, we can aid nutrition artificially, and we

may do the same in regard to digestion by adding cer-
tain    compounds, as digestives and tonics             (pepsin,
pancreatin, muriatic     acid,   phosphates,   etc.),    to   our
food or cordials,     and the selection of these com-
pounds is most highly developed in the art of mixing
drinks.
     Besides food, man requires a number of substances
which affect agreeably the tissue and the nerves; they
are, to our opinion, necessary for the welfare of an in-

dividual, and mainly consist of spices, alcoholic bever-

ages, coffee,, tea, chocolate, tobacco, narcotic extracts
of plants, as opium, hasheesh, and certain       newly dis-
covered drugs, cocaine, chloral, chloroform, ether, etc.
They more or less irritate the nervous system, and thus
dispel the feeling of pain, fatigue, etc., for a certain

space of time, and increase the ability of resistance as
also the working power.

  They are perfectly harmless as long as there is full
supply of nutritives, and while they are taken reason-
ably.
  Among these substances rank first the alcoholic
                         PHYSIOLOGY AND DIET.                             45


beverages.          A man in normal condition, and by nor-
mal work, requires, per day:

                              3X oz. of albumen,
                              3 oz. of fat,
                             8 oz. of starch and sugar,
                             .8 oz.   of salt,
                             80 oz. of water.


     From this table we see that the fluids are about five
times as great as the solids.                    If this quantity of liquids

is   not duly supplied, we suffer from a feeling which we
call         Beverages are therefore of the highest
          thirst.

hygienic and dietetic importance.

     In accordance with the highest medical authorities
we divide them into:

     1.   Refreshing beverages:          water, mineral     waters,   acetous
                                         waters.
     2.   Nutritive beverages: emulsions and decoctions of fruits,
                plants, grain, oats, milk, beef tea, and chocolate.

     3.   Aromatic beverages: coffee and tea.
     4.   Alcoholic beverages: wine, beer, alcohol and all fermented
               drinks.


     To build up a healthy body we know that liquids are
very important; but we know also that they are still
more important in cases of sickness, fever, and all dis-
eases of the digestive apparatus, when the epithelium
is   unable to absorb anything but liquids.
     A look upon the different recipes in this book shows
that these drinks, especially the mixed ones, satisfy all

requirements,        i.e.,    they are refreshing, nutritive, aro-
46                           DIET.


matic, and alcoholic     ;   consequently they must work
upon the body most effectively and pleasingly.      This
is   the reason why William's concoctions are longed for

by everybody that can afford it, and why they have
obtained so wide a fame and reputation.




                             Diet.

     A PROVERB says: " Milk is the wine of the young
and wine is the milk of the aged."      An intellectual use
of alcohol leads to health and happiness, while               its

abuse naturally is detrimental; but this book is written
for thinking people.

     Statistics, as well as personal experience, tell us that

people enjoying the use of liquors in a reasonable man-
ner, reach a higher age and enjoy a better health than
those that are totally abstinent;        still   worse   off are

those who want to make others believe that they drink

nothing, but are abusive behind their screens.
     All countries and states, where prohibition         is   not
sanctioned by law, are on a higher moral level than
those where liquors can be secured only under viola-
tion of the law.
     In numberless cases of sickness physicians do not
hesitate one moment to prescribe to the patient medi-
cines containing alcoholic stimulants       especially when
it is
        required to strengthen the body.     Why should be
detrimental to the strong, what is useful for the weak
                 PHYSIOLOGY AND DIET.                 47


always provided that the strong be of sound intellect
and morality ?
  The present times, nerve-weakening and exciting as
they are, require stimulants; and if people cannot get
harmless ones they will seek, and, in most cases, find
others, the effect of which   is   highly detrimental for
body and mind.
Composition of JUrinks
        anlr   tr
                               of

  THE foundation of all those fluids that are to be
taken into consideration for our purpose is formed by
one of the most universal elements on our globe             the
water.
  It is a conditio sine qua non      both for building up and
preserving the whole organic world.          A cell, the most
primitive of all living beings, e. g., a bathybius, as well
as the most highly developed ones, as we see them in
the higher organisms of the vegetable and animal king-

doms, contains water as a fundamental basis. Although
there are cells, and groups of them, that may retain

vitality for thousands of years, even when in dried-up

condition, yet this does not affect the relatively higher
                   in the least.
                                 "         non
developed beings                       Corpora        aguntnisi
      "
fluida is an old chemical        rule, and, indeed,   stoppage
of all functions, or even death, would occur as soon as
the necessary water should not be supplied.
  Water is indispensable for fulfilling the physical and
chemical processes,        among which ranks highest the
process of diffusion, or the Endosmosis and Exosmosis.
  We feel the lack of water involuntarily, and call this
          " thirst."
feeling                The inclination of satisfying this feel-
ing   by drinking water, or water-containing liquids, is
forced upon us by nature.   Thus, thirst compels us to
drink, and is, therefore, one of these instinctive im-
                                51
52            COMPOSITION OF DRINKS, ETC.


pulses that, because being life-preserving, are physi-
ologically of the greatest importance.
     How we ought to drink, and what, has already been
treated upon;        only left to show what we must not
                 it is

drink.    This task will be solved as soon as we have
demonstrated what beverages are composed of, and
how they are eventually adulterated.
     Although such a treatise ought to be of a strictly
chemical character, it will still be interesting, both to
the public in general and to manufacturers especially.
Therefore we add here, in short but distinct outlines, a
description of the composition of fluids, their chemical
characteristics when pure, and their possible adultera-
tions.



                            tOater.

  IT contains, in 100 parts, 88. 8 parts of oxygen and ii.i

parts of hydrogen.       We know     it   in three different   ag-
gregates     as vapor, as fluid, and as ice.       Being one of
the chief means for dissolving the most heterogeneous
solid substances,    and being capable of mixing           itself

with most of the liquids, it is never found in nature per-

fectly pure; nor    is   this at all desirable, as chemically

pure water would taste vapid.
  Natural water, e. g., rain-water, contains ingredients
that were taken from the atmosphere                as nitrogen,
carbonic acid gas, dust, salts, germs of organisms, am-
monia, nitric and nitrous acids, peroxide of hydrogen.
                                 WATER.                             53


These ingredients are partly disposed of again by fil-
tering through rocks and gravelly soil.  Spring-water
contains substances of the soil; these, varying accord-

ing to the      soil's   composition, are useful, and in      many
cases indispensable for the organisms.
   The sparkling of the water indicates the presence of
gases, without which          never refreshing. Boiling
                                 it   is

will drive out all gases, precipitate the bicarbonate of

lime and some of the coagulable matters, and destroy
some of the germs of disease. Solids            fixa      as we find
in water, are chiefly combinations of calcium, magne-

sium, alkali metals, aluminium, iron, manganese in form
of carbonates, chlorides, sulphates, silicates,            etc.,   and
organic particles.
   Good and palatable drinking water should contain
less than yrnnj- of these fixa; some of them are better not

found at all, and          if   they are, they should be in the
smallest possible proportions.             The limit of lime        is


-g-oVcj;  great a percentage of magnesia is harmful.
           to

Organic particles should be not more than to require
fa to -fa   % of oxygen for their oxidation,     i. e.,   as a maxi-

mum T-J&TT %-
   The reasons why waters not answering these require-
ments are doomed, are:  Firstly, it is proven beyond

any  doubt that the spreading of epidemics is in the
closest connection with the composition of water,

which, having absorbed germs of disease on one place,
deposited them on another; secondly, the presence of
too great quantities of organic matter, as also of am-
54                 COMPOSITION OF DRINKS, ETC.


monia,     nitric    and nitrous           acids,    shows generally an
impurity of the water              this being contaminated by filth

from cesspools and other sources.
     Water, by various methods, may be                    rid of much of

its   injurious matter, although a                  thorough purification
is out of question.   Filtering through charcoal or
oxide of iron will secure water pure enough for use;
nor will it lose much of its taste.                 For special purposes,
/. z.,   for   use in hospitals, it          is   advisable to boil the
water     first,   to cool   it,   and to add, artificially, carbonic
acid gas.

  Spring waters, which have a large, and by the taste
easily distinguishable, amount of salts, are used mostly
for therapeutical purposes, some of them                     because be-
ing palatable and refreshing also instead of ordinary
drinking water. We have to dwell only on the latter
ones to which belong those having but a few of solid
ingredients and dissolved carbonic acid gas, not under
40    vol. per cent, as f.           /.,   Apollinaris, the waters of
Heppingen and Dorotheenauer Spring at Carlsbad, etc.;
likewise the         waters containing alkalies and alkalic
muriatic acids with a certain quantity of natrium bi-
carbonicum and chloride of natrium, besides freely dis-
solved carbonic acid gas are frequently used as table
waters, as those of Vichy, Giesshuebel, Rodna, Ems,
Selters, etc.
     The waters are either consumed at the springs or
bottled; preparations containing their active ingredi-
ents, like the pastilles of Bilin, the Carlsbad Salt, etc.,
                                        MILK.                          55


are shipped to all parts of the globe; these preparations
must be dissolved according to prescription in a cer-
tain volume of water to secure the desired therapeutical

effect.

  Of higher importance, however, are                      the   artificial

mineral waters which,                   in    harmony with the exact
analysis of the natural waters, are prepared by saturat-
ing a solution of the corresponding salts under higher
pressure with carbonic acid gas.
  With these waters the greater or lesser amount of
carbonic acid gas, the greater or lesser purity of the
materials used for them, the greater or lesser safety in
the emballage are utterly essential; therefore it should
be borne in mind where to get these waters from; more-
over, waters of certain compositions                    and established
names, such as Vichy, etc., should be prepared under
the supervision of expert chemists, and never be order-
ed from firms that stand under the control of quacks.




                                    Itttlk.



   MILK is composed mainly of water, casein, lactose,
fats and mineral ingredients. The fat is only suspend-
ed   in   it,   i.e., it   is   found    in   infinitely small globules,
which float in the colorless solution of the sugar of milk
and the protein corpuscles, and which make the fluid
appear white.
56                COMPOSITION OF DRINKS, ETC.


     The average composition of good, pure cows' milk
should be as follows:

        Casein                                         5.40 parts
        Butter,                                       4.16
        Sugar of milk,    ....*...                    4.20
                                                                  "
                                                                  "
        Mineral ingredients,                          0.54
        Water                                                     "
                                                      85.70

                                                     IOO.OO


     Another composition is given by Dalton                  :




        Water                                         87.02 parts
        Casein                                                    "
                                v
                                    .   .   ,   -.
                                                       4.48
        Butter,                                        3.13
                                                                  "
        Sugar of milk                           .      4.77
        Mineral ingredients,                           0.60
                                                                  "

                                                     IOO.OO


     The mineral ingredients are chiefly kalium, phos-
phate of calcium, chloride of kalium, and chloride of
sodium.
     Milk is one of the healthiest, most nutritive and very
digestive beverages, and is prescribed very frequently
in cases of diseases of the stomach, of phthisis, etc.

In cases of poisoning it serves to coat over the irritated
mucous membrane, and thus protect it;                   it   works even
as an antidote to metallic poisons by precipitating the
metals.
                                               "
     It is justly considered the " model food;                   necessary
as good milk is, it is a common experience to receive
it   deprived of its cream, diluted with water, or other-
wise adulterated by dishonest dealers.                  A surplus of
                                 WINE.                       57


water renders the milk thin, and gives it a bluish color,
which is often covered by yellow dyestuffs. For preserv-
ing, salicylic acid, borax, soda, etc., are added; to give
diluted milk      more body, different ingredients are dis-
solved in     it, as corn-starch, flour, dextrine, glue and

emulsions of hemp, poppy, etc.  It is capable of ab-

sorbing noxious odors and emanations, and may con-
vey the infection of scarlet and typhoid fevers from in-
fected milk-rooms.     Great care, therefore, is to be
observed in keeping milk.             The store-rooms, as the
vessels containing       it,   should be clean and free from
odors.
  The appearance of milk, its taste, its change in boil-
ing, and after      long standing are, for the majority, the
only proofs of its quality.          The different lactometers
and galactometers furnish satisfactory results only in
the hands of experts.



                                tone.

  WHETHER it should be allowed to artificially im-
prove wines, and whether such improvement is to be
called adulteration depends entirely on our definition
of the word " wine."           Wine is either fermented grape-
juice, or   it is   a delicious beverage obtained from fer-
mented grape-juice.            These two definitions differ very
widely.     The first one forbids absolutely the applica-
tion of any means that might alter the wine, of any sub-
58              COMPOSITION OF DRINKS, ETC.

stance that is not grown with the grape;           according to
it   wine must neither be blended nor         purified, as the

very smallest quantities of any stuff used for such a
purpose that would and will remain with the wine
altersthe same, while alcohol, added for blending,

originates from the       potato and not from the grape-
fruit.     This definition, to our opinion, is perfectly ab-
surd; the acceptance of it       would entitle any judge to
condemn any wine-dealer for adulteration as soon as
legal proceedings were instituted against him.
     The main weight is        to be laid   on wine being a
delicious beverage from grape-juice.          It   may not al-
ways be obtained from simple fermentation of grape-
juice; there is many a year when the warming sunrays
fail   to ripen the fruit of the vine, when the must is sour,
and the wine, therefore, turns vapid and pungent, so as
to     create sadness and grief instead of gladness and

joy, when taken by us poor mortals.

     Depriving such must of its surplus of acids, and en-
hancing its percentage of sugar means to produce a
wine agreeable to the palate, and not injurious to the
health, while the taste of the natural wine would have
filled every one with disgust.

     Adulteration of any article may only be spoken of in
case the value of said article be diminished, or substances
be added that are likely to injure the health.
     In improving wine the following methods are mainly

adopted, and named after their inventors:
     I.
          Chaptalizing:   The surplus of acids in wine is neu-
                                WINE.                          59


tralized, and the deficient  sugar is added. Carbonate
of calcium is used for neutralizing, in the proportion of
100 parts of chalk to 150 parts of acids.              To add the
missing sugar we first determine by a saccharometer
what percentage of sugar is contained in the wine. Let
this      be 15%, then we will increase the sugar from 20-


     2.   Gallizing: Gall has, immediately after the picking,
the ripe berries separated from the less ripe ones.      The
first ones    are worked with alone.     From the unripe ones
he obtains a juice which he does not neutralize, but
which he dilutes with water until a certain degree of
acid is reached, when he corrects also the lack of sugar.

  Beyse states of gallized wines: I. A constantly good
wine may be obtained, even in poor years. 2. They
stand transportation without change.             3.   They require
only a year's attention and care.         4.   They contain more
alcohol.       5.   The quantity is increased, while the quality
is   improved.
     Of other methods we only name that of Petiot.
  Wines are, especially right after fermentation, liable
to many changes which alter them for the worse, or may
even utterly ruin them.           Pasteur, the eminent     French
chemist, has taught us the nature of these diseases,
which are due to the presence of bacilli or germs.
     As general hints for protection are to be minded:
  Try to stop the development of these germs by the
most careful cleanliness of all vessels and rooms by
utmost scouring and extensive ventilating.                Infected
60            COMPOSITION OF DRINKS, ETC.


vessels, barrels, tubs, etc., are to be removed from the

cellars, and,   be this impossible, the disinfection must
be done there.
     The percentage of alcohol, as far as it is not due to
blending, is in closest connection with the quantity of
sugar in the must; no wine can contain more than
seventeen vol. per cent, of alcohol, as with this degree
the transformation of sugar into alcohol      by fermenta-
tion is stopped, and any surplus is caused by blending.
All southern wine-growers are fond of increasing the

sugar in their wines, thus, Australia produces hardly
any wine below 26%.
   The coloring of wines offers many chances for adul-
teration. Immense quantities of white wines are thus
made red wines, and even liquids that can boast of no
relationship to the grape-juice at all are transformed
into red wines by coloring materials.

     Dyestuffs mainly used for this purpose are berries from
                                               :




sambucus niger, sambucus ebulus, vaccinium myrtillus,
ligustrum vulgaris, phytolacca decandra, the flowers of
wialva arborea, althea rosea, and malva silvestris, beets,

logwood and Brazilwood, cochineal, indigo, fuchsine,
and other aniline colors.
     Of these dyestuffs the aniline colors are easiest to de-
tect, while natural colors,    having very great similarity
to the natural dyestuff of wine, sometimes render          it,

even to an expert, difficult to prove their presence.
                                BEER.                           6l




                                Seer.

  BEER       or to call   it   by the name that is at present
more en vogue, Lager            consists, or at least      ought to
consist,   of a fermented         extract of malt and hops.
While in the first quarter of this century this healthy
and agreeable beverage used             to   be   prepared often
enough from a mixture containing many violent poisons,
as Indian hemp, opium, sulphuric acid, sulphate of iron,
etc.   nay, the addition of strychnia, even, was suspected
  the principal adulterations of it, at the present time,
consist of water, to increase the bulk of the fluid, and
burnt sugar and      salt, to restore in     a measure its color
and flavor. The addition of water does not render beer
injurious,but it cheats people out of their money.
Burnt sugar, or treacle, was extensively employed, with
the view of increasing the dark color of porter, stout,
or other heavy beers; the ingredient known as essentia

bina, formerly used in the manufacture of beer, con-
sisted of moist sugar boiled in          an iron vessel until it
had become syrupy, perfectly black, and extremely
bitter.

  The acidity in beer is very desirable;              it   depends,
probably, on the presence of malic and lactic acid.              In

many cases, however, acetic acid, or vinegar, is formed
in beer from a decomposition of excessive fermentation

of its sugar;    the beverage is then very sour, and unfit
62              COMPOSITION OF DRINKS, ETC.

for use.     There is some reason to believe that sulphuric
acid is occasionally used to give astringency to beer, in
which case the addition of chloride of barium to the liquor
will cause the formation of a bulky precipitate insoluble

in nitric acid.   Sulphate of iron was, and probably is still,
employed for restoring the flavor of beer.         Should this
chemical be present in an alcoholic beverage, by add-
ing ammonia and sulphide of ammonium to the fluid a
black precipitate will be produced.
     More recently, trials have been made to substitute
picric acid instead of hops; beer      prepared in this way
is nothing but a solution of glucose,   augmented or rather
spiced with picric acid.     Taste by itself fails in helping
us to distinguish the presence of this acid, but Lassaigne

gave us the means of detecting even the slightest pro-
portions of said acid in beer.       By shaking good, un-
adulterated beer with an excess of pulverized burned
bone-dust it loses all its color, as the powder absorbs
all   the dyestuffs;   but when doing the same with beer
adulterated by addition of picric acid, it will not lose its

yellowish tint.
     It   would be a great comfort to all beer-drinkers to
know that such adulterations belong to the past; but,
though sorry to say so, we are of the opinion of old Dr.
Faust: " It's true the message       I do hear,   yet I cannot
believe it."
                           SPIRITS.                      63




  IN hardly any article of merchandise so many adul-
terations   occur as in the stronger alcoholic liquids.
And to these falsifications it is due that the use of alco-
hol so often shows   its   most detrimental effect on the
health, especially on the brain of man.

  Spirits may be adulterated with water, sugar, capsi-
cum, cinnamon or cassia, various sulphates, free sul-
phuric acid and lead. Water has been added to them
in such a degree that their     commercial value was re-
duced to the enormous extent of more than one-half.
This lack of body was covered partly by sugar.
Hassall says in his Adulterations of Food, etc.: " It is

impossible to conceive of more scandalous adulterations
of spirits than those      by cayenne pepper or grains of
paradise, for they are almost equally hot and pungent.
The introduction into the stomach of raw spirits is suf-
ficiently destructive of itself, but the addition of such

powerful and acrid substances as cayenne pepper and
grains of paradise forms a compound which no human
stomach or system, however strong, could long with-
stand."
  The different kinds of spirits are obtained in a com-
paratively crude state from the grain by the      distiller.

They are afterward submitted to purification       by the
rectifier, as well as procured of a higher strength.   The
64               COMPOSITION OF DRINKS, ETC.


impurity of raw spirits arises principally from the pres-
ence of a peculiar volatile oil, termed fusel oil, and pos-
sessing very deleterious properties. Dr. Taylor re-
marks of this oil, " that in small quantities it produces
intoxication.  I have experienced the effects of the va-

pour and found them to be giddiness, accompanied with a
feeling of suffocation and a sense of falling.          Headache
followed which lasted half an hour."               Two drachms of
the oil killed a rabbit in two hours, three drachms in an

hour, half an ounce in a quarter of an hour, and one
ounce in four minutes.          Much of the unwholesomeness
of spirits imperfectly rectified arises from its contamina-
tion with fusel oil.
       To show what infernal concoctions are served to the
public      we put down only one              recipe out of a great
number, taken from a book that is said to be the best
on the market.
       To manufacture whiskey, the following Bourbon Oil
recipe is given:

          Take Fusel Oil,                                      64 oz.
            "   Acetate of Potassium,                              "
                                                                4
            "                                                      "
                Sulphuric Acid,                                 4
                                                                   "
          Dissolve Sulphate of Copper,                          yz
                  and Oxalate of Ammonium,         .   .   .
                                                                Yz"
                 each in water,                                      "
                                                                4
          Add Black Oxide of Manganese                          i
                                                                     "
  Place them all in a glass percolator and let them rest for
twelve hours. Then percolate and put into a glass still, and dis-
till   half a gallon of the Bourbon Oil.

                             Saptenti sat !
  THE quantity of food required by a normal man de-
pends not only upon his size, the greater amount of
muscular work, but, in the first place, on the climate.
A body exposed to a cool, bracing atmosphere, or to
extreme cold demands an increased supply of food.
The ravenous appetite noticed among the inhabitants
of cold climates   may be due in part to the fact that
their food-supply is very irregular, as to make them eat

to excess when supplied with food.      According to Dr.
Hayes, the arctic explorer, the daily ration        of the

Esquimaux, is from twelve to fifteen pounds of meat,
about one-third of which is fat.   The demand for fatty
substances increases with the greater cold; hence the

Esquimaux as all other inhabitants of the arctic regions,
do hardly know anything drinkable but fatty bever-
ages, such as cod-liver oil, sperm oil, etc., of which they
use from four to five pounds daily.
  The temperate zones, varying very much in their
temperature and moisture according to the different
elevations, the greater or lesser distance from oceans,
the greater or lesser exposure to warm and cold winds,

require   what we might name a general diet.       People
in the parts nearer to the tropics will regulate their

diet in accordance with the rules prescribed for these,

while those nearer to the arctic regions will have to
68                      ETHNOGRAPHY.

accommodate themselves to           their demands/  Every-
where, however, we find a desire for       fermented bever-
ages, be it wine or beer, whiskey or brandy.
     The Kirghisians' favorite drink is the Kumyss, pre-
pared from fermented horse-milk.
     The inhabitants of Korea (Eastern Asia) prepare their
wine of rice or millet, of which they are extremely fond.
  The Japanese make their wine mostly of rice, and call
itSaki.                                             r
 *Although we must warn every man of the Caucasian
race not to yield too much to the enjoyment of alco-
holic beverages within the tropics, because there every-

thing ought to be shunned that aids in producing more
individual heat and needs much oxygen for combustion,

yet we must state that this restriction must be confined
to white people only.       The indigenous inhabitants do
not seem to suffer at all from their fermented beverages,
at least not more than white people from theirs.     Ample
proofs of it we find in the publications of explorers.
In the following we want to give some testimonials for
the correctness of our assertion:
  " As the                                   we had soon an
            people were amiable ....
abundance of .... plantain and palm wines for cheer."
     STANLEY: Through        the   Dark   Continent, October
1 8,
         1876.
     "
         Tippu Tib gave a banquet of rice and roasted sheep
to the expedition; and malofu, or palm wine, from Mpsi-
ka Island, assisted to maintain the high spirits."     Ibid,
December 26, 1876.
                         ETHNOGRAPHY.                             69

    "   We supposed them to be dancing and enjoying their
palm wine, the delicious and much-esteemed malofu."
    Ibid,   February 10, 1877.
    " But the
            people, upon whom our liberality had pro-
duced too strong an effect, would not permit us to do
so (leave) until we had further celebrated our acquaint-
ance with copious draughts of their delicious wine
(sweet      maramba or banana wine)."           Ibid,   March     26,

1875.
  " With rather glazed eyes they offered us some of the
equatorial nectar. The voyage had been long on this
day, and we were tired, and it might be that we sighed
for such cordial, refreshing drink as was now proffered

to us.      At any rate, we accepted their hospitable gift,
and sucked heartily, with bland approval of the deli-
cacy of the liquid." Ibid, April, 1875.
  " Refreshments were not
                            wanting to cheer the dan-
cers.    Great masses of beef were roasted over glorious
fires, and many jars of beer and maramba, brought from

Bwina and Komeh, invited the special attention of the
thirsty."     Ibid, July 17, 1875.
    "   A great drinking of maramba wine and potent beer
followed."        Ibid, October 29, 1875.
    The Barabra in northeast Africa prepare a beverage,
"
    Merissa," of the flour of Duchn, by pouring over               it


boiling water and letting         it   ferment for awhile.      The
              -                             -
yellowish         looking,   sparkling, sour tasting      fluid    is


changed to a beer by adding some herbs.                 The Bar-
abras are ever so fond of this liquid.
70                               ETHNOGRAPHY.

  The Ketchuas, the descendants of the old Incas,
know no higher enjoyment than drunkenness; each
festival is celebrated by excessive drinking.               Their fa-
                            " Chicha"
vorite beverage          is
                               (pronounced Tschitscha),
a fermented   maize decoction, cooling, opening, nutri-
tious, and intoxicating, if taken in great quantities.
     The Indians of the Caribbean Sea prepare fermented
beverages from the Mandioca root.                   Paiwari, Paiwa,
Kassiri,        are    the   names of just    as   many fermented
drinks.
     A specific beverage of the Hottentots           is   the " Krii,"
or honey-beer;           it is   made of wild honey, water and the
fermented decoction of the Krii-root.               Likewise they
understand how to prepare alcoholic liquids by infus-
ing berries.
  Between the Senegal and the Niger everything is
concentrated upon the enjoyment of alcoholic drinks.
The negro             fond of drinks, may it be wine, beer, or al-
cohol      is   willing to acknowledge the supremacy of the
European, and is an enemy to Mohammedanism. Vice
versa, the negro that does not drink is a follower of
Mohammed, whether he knows who Mohammed was
or not. It may occur that a drinker, after a bacchanal,

in repentance of it, shaves his hair closely, with the
                                    "
exception of the centre; then he is   Tub," or a con-
vert, and will join the public religious services of the
Mohammedans.                 The drinker, however, wears his full
hair.     If he be obliged to require the services of a bar-

ber, i. e., of a piece of glass or a           sharpened     shell, he
                     ETHNOGRAPHY.                     71


will take great care to leave a wreath of hair, in order

never to be taken for a " Tub."    From afar you may
distinguish with comparative surety the one that does
not drink (Sering) from the one that drinks (Tjedo),

respectively, the   Mohammedan from the heathen or
Christian.   Both hate and despise each other, and some
tribes, as the Diobas and the Sarrars,   shoot every Mo-
hammedan at sight.     On the other side, ask a believer
in Islamism what    should be done with a drinker, and
he will make a significant motion with his hand around
the throat, and in most cases a drinker is beheaded on
           But as the                " II
the spot.              proverb says,      ya des accom-
modements avec le del" the teetotalers help themselves
by swallowing rather large quantities of cologne-water.
(Dtir
        Inscription of a (Sreek Banquet

  BEFORE the invited guest went to the entertainment
he made his toilette: that is, he bathed, perfumed him-
self,   and donned his best clothes and shoes.
  The table was usually spread in the andronitis, or
reception room for men, and the guest, after exchang-
ing salutations with his entertainers, took the place
assigned to him, the most honorable being that at the
side of the host.    Servants removed the shoes of the

guests and purified the feet from the dust of the streets.
Then they reclined upon couches with bright coverings
and hangings, resting the left arm upon a cushion, so
as to leave the right hand free.     As a rule, there were
two guests     to each   couch.   Before each the slaves

placed a table spread with viands, and brought meat,
fish,   and sauces in dishes, and bread, cakes, and fruit
in baskets.    The guest had no plate nor knife for him-
self,   and as for forks, they were unknown, but a spoon
was placed at his disposal.       The meat was served cut
into small pieces, which he took with the fingers of the

right hand, and     dipped into the sauces.      After the
meal, as before it, the servants carried around water to
wash the hands, and during the meal the fingers were
wiped, if necessary, on bread or a piece of dough
placed for the purpose.
  The repast usually consisted of two courses, of which
                             75
76"                    OUR ANCESTORS.

the    first   was fish and meat, with the vegetables and
other hors-d'oeuvres, and the second the dessert of

pastry, cakes, and fruit.
  While the meal proper continued, there was no
drinking, nor was it the custom to converse while eat-
ing.      Conversation began with the second part of the
entertainment, the symposion or carousal, for which
the tables were removed, and the floor cleansed of all

fragments.        Other tables were then brought    in    by
the servants, covered with salted cakes         a kind of
bretzels        cheese and other   viands   provocative of
thirst.

      The   great mixing bowls were     brought   in,    also

pitchers of water cooled in snow, and jugs of unmixed
wines, ladle-shaped dippers, beakers, and cups deep
and shallow, of graceful forms, and the queer horn-
shaped vessels, called rhyta. The youngest and hand-
somest slaves were chosen to wait on the guests, who
crowned their heads and garlanded their breasts with
myrtle and violets, ivy and roses, not merely as a sign
of festivity, but to cool their glowing temples, and, as

they thought, to counteract the heady qualities of the
wine. Music was then brought in, song and dance de-

lighted ear and eye, and Bacchos, attended by the
Muses and the Graces, ruled the hour, often until all
were sunk in intoxication.
      The Greek loved wine, and hanored it in art and
song.       He loved it not merely as a means of sensual
enjoyment: he used it as the care-dispeller, the bring-
        DESCRIPTION OF A ROMAN BANQUET.                  77


er of joy   and mirth.    Wine raised the spirits of the
youth, and taught age to forget its gray hairs and dis-
regard its infirmities.




    J3e0criptton of a         Homan Banquet.
  THE chief meal of the Romans took place in "the
evening, and was the last meal of the day.
  In early morning, before going out, it was the custom
to break the fast on bread    and salt, eaten with fruit,
cheese or olives; about noon followed the luncheon,
or prandium;    and then about midway between noon
and sunset, though often much later, the ccena, which
might be prolonged far into the night. The prandium
was sometimes more substantial, and comprised fish,
eggs, shell-fish and wine;but the proper art of the
kitchen was reserved for the ccena. This consisted

usually of a variety of entrees, provocative of appetite,
followed by two very substantial courses and a des-
sert.

  But the Romans were not at        first   thus luxurious.
In the early time a kind of porridge of pulse formed
their principal food, and this, with the addition of vege-

tables and leguminous fruits, especially beans, remain-
ed the diet of the lower classes at all times.    Down to
the year 174 B. C., there were neither cooks nor bakers
in the city who regularly followed their trades.

  The Asiatic wars first made the Romans acquainted
78                        OUR ANCESTORS.

with the luxuries of the table, and furnished them with
cooks,    bakers and confectioners in the           persons of
slaves    who were        sold   at high prices.   Thenceforth
gastronomy became a study, and the ordering and pre-
paration of a dinner a science and an art. The Re-
public   had already had a Lucullus, whose name ever
after was associated        with sumptuous repasts; but the

gastronomic art, for which he was so renowned, did not
attain   its   perfection   and glory until imperial times.
Then, when Rome had extended her sway over the
whole world, the expansion of trade and intercourse
brought the dainties of all lands to the capital; the
farthest East, and the farthest West, the delicacies of

India, the spices of Arabia, the fish and shell-fish of the

Atlantic, the game of Gaul and Germany, and the dates
of the oases, all met in the Roman kitchen.           The Em-
peror Vitellius, perhaps the most enormous eater that
the Empire ever knew, sent out his legions to hunt
game where it was found in the highest perfection, and
employed his fleets in furnishing his table with fresh
fish. So many arms were set in motion by a single
stomach   At this time it was that all the breeding
           !




and fattening establishments were erected.            Remark-
ably large      or fine   fish were   bought by wealthy gour-
mands at fabulous prices, as many anecdotes tell us,
but probably more for the sake of notoriety than any-

thing else.
     Fish, oysters, snails, mussels     and other shell-fish, of
which the       Roman kitchen boasted a greater variety
          DESCRIPTION OF A ROMAN BANQUET.                            79


than our own, were supplied from all parts of the Em-

pire,   and the epicures knew well where the choicest
were to be found, and the most delicate modes of pre-
paring them.        The mullet or sea-barbel, a fish highly
esteemed, was often brought alive to the table that the
guests might have visible proof of its freshness.            When
the favorite Italian oysters began to pall on the ap-
                                     "             "
petite, recourse was had to the          natives       of Britain.
  The villa furnished fowls, which were fattened in the
dark, and ducks and geese fed with figs and dates; the
volarium or aviary:      fieldfares, snipes, quails, pheasants,
and smaller birds.
  Storks, cranes, flamingos, and especially peacocks,
were also often served at Roman tables.                Vitellius and

Apicius         that gourmand who devoured his whole large
fortune and, when reduced to his last million, killed
himself because life was no longer worth having                 pre-
pared a dish of the tongues of flamingoes, and Elaga-
balus of their brains.      Among quadrupeds the pig was
in highest favor,     and more than fifty ways were known
of dressing its flesh.
  Wild boars were often served whole, and epicures
could    tell    by the flavor from what region the animal
came.   Sausages of various kinds were a favorite dish,
both hot and cold; and hucksters on the streets served
them to customers from small, portable stoves. The
best sausages, as well as the best hams, came from Gaul.
There was an abundant supply of salads and vegetables;
asparagus was cultivated to a large size; many kinds of
80                     OUR ANCESTORS.


cabbages were grown, with turnips, artichokes, pump-
kins and cucumbers, peas and beans, mushrooms and

truffles, and many plants and herbs used for flavoring.
     Nor did the Roman table lack rare and choice wines,
kept in jars or bottles of baked clay. They were prized
in proportion to their age; and each jar bore a label,

showing in whose consulship the wine had been made.
Campania furnished the best Italian wines, of which the
Caecuban held the first rank, the Falernian the next,
while the third place was claimed by several vintages;
but whoever was forced to drink the Vatican was an

object of general commiseration. Greek wines, too, had
their place in the Roman cellars. As, with the increasing

luxury the customs at the table were more and more
fashioned after those of the Greeks, though incompar-

ably more luxurious,       so, like   the Greek, the   Roman
rarely drank wine undiluted.He mingled it with water,
and cooled it with snow; while for the winter he had a
warm drink         the calda, made of wine, water, honey,
and spice, for preparing which there was a special ves-
sel,   the caldarium, with a small furnace of charcoal in
the interior, on the principle of the Russian samovar.
     Still   another beverage, called mulsurn, which was
drunk at breakfast, was prepared of must, honey, and
spices.
     The Roman table was thus liberally provided, and
though many dishes seem to us of questionable taste,
still, the achievements of Romans in the culinary line

do them high credit.       Even in Caesar's time, at a pon-
          DESCRIPTION OF A ROMAN BANQUET.                   8l



tificalbanquet, attended by six priests and as many
priestesses, the following was the menu: First course

(intended merely as a whet to appetite)   conger eels,
                                               :




oysters, two kinds of mussels, thrushes on asparagus,
fat fowls,   a ragout of oysters and other shell-fish, with
black and white marrons.            Second course: a variety
of    shell-fish   and    other   marine animals,   becaficos,
haunches of venison, a wild boar, a pasty of becaficos
and other birds.         Third and principal course:   the ud-
ders of swine, boar's head, fricassee of fish, fricassee of
sow's udder, ducks of various kinds, hares, roast fowls
with pastry, and Picentine bread.
     This by no means meagre bill of fare was          far sur-

passed in later times, especially in the pastry and con-
fectionery;    and this part of the repast was distinguished
by the originality and artistic forms of its devices, in
which the confectioner rivaled the statuary.
82                   OUR ANCESTORS.




           21   Homan Banquet ?Be0crtbeb
                               BY

            QUINTUS HORATIUS FLACCUS.
     SATIRARUM LIBER II. VIII.      TRANSL. BY P. FRANCIS.

  [This is obviously a satire on a person of bad taste giving a
dinner to men of superior rank, where every delicacy of the sea-
son, though commended with ostentation by the host, is either
tainted by being kept too long, or spoiled by bad cookery, and
disgraced by the awkwardness of the attendants.]

                  HORACE, FUNDANIUS
                             HORACE.

        They told me that you spent the jovial night
        With Nasidienus, that same happy wight,
        From early day, or you had been my guest;
        But, prithee, tell me how you liked the feast.

                         FUNDANIUS.

        Sure never better.

                             HORACE.
                         Tell me, if you please,
        How did you first your appetite appease ?
                         FUNDANIUS.

        First, a Lucanian boar, of tender kind,

        Caught, says our host, in a soft southern wind:
        Around him lay whatever could excite,
        With pungent force, the jaded appetite;
        Rapes, lettuce, radishes, anchovy brine,
        With skerrets and the lees of Coan wine.
        This dish removed, a slave, expert and able,
        With purple napkin wiped a maple table;
          A ROMAN BANQUET.                            83


Another sweeps the fragments of the feast,
That nothing useless might offend the guest.
Like Ceres' priestess dark Hydaspes rears
A bowl that Caecuba's rich vintage bears,
While of the Chian grape, the much-famed juice,
But dead and vapid, Alcon's hand produce.
" If Alban or Falernian
                         please you more,"
So says our host, "you may have both, good store."
Poor wealth, indeed  !




                   HORACE.

                  But, tell me, who were there,
Thus happy, to enjoy such luscious fare ?

                  FUNDANIUS.

On the first couch I haply lay between
Viscus and Varius, if aright I ween ;




Servilius and Vibidius both were there,

Brought by Maecenas; and with him they share
The middle bed.    Our master of the feast
On the third couch, in seat of honor placed,
Porcius betwixt and Nomentanus lies
Porcius, who archly swallows custard pies
While Nomentanus, with his finger, shows
Each hidden dainty, which so well he knows;
For we, poor folk, unknowing of our feast,
Eat fish and wild fowl of no common taste.
But he, to prove how luscious was the treat,
With a broiled flounder's entrails crowds my plate.
Then told me: Apples are more ruddy bright,
If gathered by fair Luna's waning light.
He best can tell you where the difference lies
But here Servilius to Vibidius cries:
" Sure to be
             poison'd, unrevenged we die,
Unless we drink the wretched talker dry.
                              "
Slave, give us larger glasses!  Struck with dread,
A fearful pale our landlord's face o'erspread;
84                      OUR ANCESTORS.

     Great were his terrors of such drinking folk,
     Because with too much bitterness they joke.
     Or that hot wines, dishonoring his feast,
     Deafen the subtle judgment of the taste.
       When our two champions had their goblets crown'd,
     We did them justice, and the glass went round;
     His parasites alone his anger fear'd.
     And the full flask unwillingly they spar'd.
     In a large dish an outstretch'd lamprey lies,
     With shrimps all floating round the master cries:
                                           ;


     " This
                fish,   Maecenas, full of roe was caught,
     For, after spawning time, its flesh is naught.
     The sauce is mixed with olive-oil; the best
     And purest from the vats Venafran press'd.
     And as it boil'd we pour'd in Spanish brine,
     Nor less than five year old Italian wine.
     A little Chian 's better when 'tis boil'd,
     By any other it is often spoil'd.
     Then was white pepper o'er it gently pour'd,
     And vinegar of Lesbian vintage sour'd.
           among the men of sapience, knew,
     I, first

     Roquets and herbs in cockle brine to stew;
     Though in the same rich pickle, 'tis confess'd,
     His unwash'd crayfish sage Curtillus dress'd."


     But lo     !   the canopy that o'er us spreads,
     Tumbled in hideous ruin on our heads;
     With dust, how black not such the clouds arise
                                  !



     When o'er the plain a northern tempest flies.
     Some horrors yet more horrible we dread,

          ********
     But raise us when we found the danger fled.


     Poor Rufus droop'd his head, and sadly cried,
     As if his only son untimely died.
     Sure he had wept, till weeping ne'er had end,
     But Nomentanus thus upraised his friend:
     "
       Fortune, thou cruelest of powers divine,
     To joke poor mortals is a joke of thine."
             A ROMAN BANQUET.                             85


While Varius, with a napkin, scarce suppress'd
His laughter. Balatro, who loves a jest,
Cries:
       " Such is the lot of   nor must      claim
                             life,        you
For all your toils a fair return of fame.
While you are tortured thus, and torn with pain,
A guest like me, polite to entertain,
With bread well baked, with sauces season'd right,
With slaves in waiting, elegantly tight,
Down rush the canopies, a trick of fate,
Or a groom footman, stumbling, breaks a plate.
Good fortune hides, adversity calls forth
A landlord's genius and a leader's worth."
  To this mine host: " Thou ever gentle guest,
May all thy wishes by the gods be bless'd,
Thou best good man " But when we saw him rise,
                        !




From bed to bed the spreading whisper flies.
No play was half so fine.

                     HORACE.

                    But prithee say,
How afterwards you laugh'd the time away.

                   FUNDANIUS.

" Slaves
           (cries Vibidius), have you broach 'd the cask ?
How often must I call for the other flask ? "
With some pretended joke our laugh was dress'd,
Servilius ever seconding the jest;
When you, great host, return 'd with alter'd face,
As if to mend with art your late disgrace.
  The slaves behind, in mighty charger bore
A crane, in pieces torn, and powder 'd o'er
With salt and flour, and a white gander's liver
Stuff'd fat with figs, bespoke the curious giver,
Besides the wings of hares, for, so it seems,
No man of luxury the back esteems.
  Then saw we blackbirds, with o'erroasted breast,
Laid on a board, and ring-doves rumpless dress'd      !
86                     OUR ANCESTORS.

         Delicious fare did not our host explain
                        !



         Their various qualities in endless strain,
         Their various natures; but we fled the feast,
         Resolved in vengeance nothing more to taste;
         As if Canidia, with empoison'd breath,
         Worse than a serpent's, blasted it with death.


            21 IRogal ftast 2ltnong         %
                             A. D. 448.


(Edward Gibbon: The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire.}
  THE Roman ambassadors, both of the East and of the West,
were twice invited to the banquets where Attila feasted with the
princes and nobles of Scythia. Maximin and his colleagues were
stopped on the threshold, till they had made a devout libation
to the health and prosperity of the king of the Huns, and were
conducted, after this ceremony, to their respective seats in a
spacious hall. The royal table and couch, covered with carpets
and fine linen, was raised by several steps in the midst of the
hall; and a son, an uncle, or, perhaps, a favorite king were ad-
mitted to share the simple and homely repast of Attila. Two
lines of small tables, each of which contained three or four

guests, were ranged in order on either hand, the right was
esteemed the most honorable; but the Romans ingenuously con-
fess they were placed on the left, and that Beric, an unknown

chieftain, most probably of the Gothic race, preceded the rep-
resentatives of Theodosius and Valentinian.
   The barbarian monarch received from his cupbearer a goblet
filled with wine, and courteously drank to the health of the most

distinguished guest, who rose from his seat, and expressed in the
same manner his loyal and respectful vows. This ceremony was
successively performed for all, or at least for the illustrious per-
sons, of the assembly; and a considerable time must have been
consumed, since it was thrice repeated as each course or service
was placed on the table. But the wine still remained after the
meat had been removed, and the Huns continued to indulge their
intemperance long after the sober and decent ambassadors of the
          A ROYAL FEAST AMONG THE HUNS.                        S/


two empires had withdrawn themselves from the nocturnal ban-
quet. Yet before they retired they enjoyed a singular opportunity
of observing the manners of the nation in their convivial amuse-
ments.   Two Scythians stood before the couch of Attila and
recited verses, which they had composed to celebrate his valor
and his victories. A profound silence prevailed in the hall, and
the attention of the guests was captivated by the vocal harmony,
which revived and perpetuated the memory of their own exploits:
a martial ardor flashed from the eyes of the warriors, who were
impatient for battle; and the tears of the old men expressed their
generous despair that they could no longer partake the danger
and glory of the field. This entertainment, which might be con-
sidered as a school of military virtue, was succeeded by a farce
that debased the dignity of human nature.       A Moorish and a
Scythian buffoon (dwarf) successively excited the mirth of the
rude spectators by their deformed figure, ridiculous dress, antic
gestures, absurd speeches, and the strange, unintelligible con-
fusion of the Latin, the Gothic, and the Hunnic languages; and
the hall resounded with loud and licentious peals of laughter.
In the midst of this intemperate riot, Attila alone, without a
change of countenance, maintained his steadfast and inflexible
gravity, which was never relaxed, except on the entrance of
Irnac, the youngest of his sons: he embraced the boy with a
smile of paternal tenderness, gently pinched him on the cheek,
and betrayed a partial affection, which was justified by the
assurance of his prophets that Irnac would be the future support
of his family and empire.
88                         OUR ANCESTORS.




     21 Jflmtr of (Emperor Cl)arle0            tl.   (1S19-15S6).

  [This is a dinner bill of fare, with which the city of Halle hon-
ored Charles V. on a fast-day. J

      1.    Raisins in malt-flour,
      2.    Fried eggs,
      3.    Pancakes,
      4.    Steamed carrots,
      5.    Fried slices of bread,
      6. A covered porridge,
      7. A high pasty,
      8.    Pea-soup with marrow, covered richly with peas and eggs,
      9.    Yellow codfish, boiled in butter,
     10.    Carps, boiled,
     11.    Fried fish, with bitter oranges, spiced,
     12.    Sweet pikes,
     13.    Pulverized kernels, with almonds,
     14.    Maize in almonds' milk,
     15.    Fried fish, with small olives,
     1 6.   Cakes,
     17.    Pears and confect.
  " His
            Majesty ate heartily, God bless His appetite, and took
only three draughts from a Venetian glass."
                  Itinte of                 i


                   in   ti)l)tcl)
                                    (Drkr


0l)oulb   l)ej)
                  be Stroeb at a Ecpast?
             tiinte   of   ttJine0    an& in
             rber StyouRr Styeg be          Qtwtb at
         a

  WINE is, at each and every festival, of such impor-
tance, that it at least requires the same care and atten-
tion as the meals: if these form but the material part of
a banquet, then wine represents its intellectual, psychi-

                       nothing more provoking to
cal contents, and there is

a true gourmand than to have the most select meals
served with ordinary or inferior wines, or in improper
combination.     It requires   much knowledge and intel-
lect, not only to select really good and genuine wines,

and to keep them in the best possible condition, but to
pick them out deliberately in harmony with the dishes,
and to have them brought on the table in a manner to
show all their excellency.  The old Greeks and
Romans used to mix their wines with water, and this
habit was followed through the greater part of the
mediaeval age, because adulteration of wines was nearly
unknown.       The praiseworthiness    of certain brands
was found out but gradually, and several interesting
     stories may illustrate this:
little                                A
                                     butler of Bishop

John de Fugger had  to travel ahead of  His Eminence
                               91
92              HOW WINES SHOULD BE SERVED.

and to mark every inn where he should find good and
palatable wine, with the word Est (is).            Now, one day
he came to Monte Fiasco, and was so delighted with the
beverage he found there, that he marked on the en-
trance door of the inn: "Est, Est, Est" The bishop
came, remained there, and drank himself to a blessed
death.
     Less known, but not less interesting, is the following
story which, however, seems to be in little accordance
with the historical facts we put down in regard to cham-

pagne wines.   Emperor Wenzel (1378-1400) came to
Rheims in the year 1397 to make a treaty with Charles
VI. of France.         He found the wine that grew in the
vicinity superior to all others;            on its account he de-
layed the treaty, and when, finally, it was agreed upon
he could not yet possibly make up his mind to leave
the so hospitable city of Rheims, but devoted another
entire year to the study of the wines of the neigh-
borhood.
     Besides the discrimination of wines, according to
their color, into red        and white ones, we may divide
them also as follows:           I.   Sweet, or so-called liquor
wines.     2.   Acidulous wines.       3.   Tannic wines.   4.   Al-
coholic wines.        5.   Sparkling wines.
     We do not intend          to    bore    the kind reader     by
enumerating the hundreds of brands both in this coun-
try   and in Europe; we want only to show how, at a
dinner, wines should be          combined with the different
courses.        For every two to four guests a bottle of red
               HOW WINES SHOULD BE SERVED.                        93


wine and one of a light white wine is required, e.g., St.
Julien, Pontet Canet, or Ober-Ingelheimer, Affenthaler
and Markgrafler;             after the soup, port wine, Madeira,

sherry, Malvasy,             Marsala,   etc.;   selected wines   are
served in small glasses.          A good white wine, as Forster,
Rauenthaler, Pisporter, or another Rhine or Moselle
wine, but light,   given with the fish; with the re-
                        is

leves and entrees, Bordeaux; with ragouts, mayon-

naises, or vegetables and chops, Burgundy or heavy
Rhine wine; with the roast, champagne; to pasties and
entremets serve a fine, red wine, but not too acidulous,
e. g.,    Emilion, Brane Mouton, Chateau Margaux;
         St.

for the dessert, a heavy sweet wine, as Malaga, Mus-

cat-Lunel, Alicante, Rivesaltes, Tokay, Menescher,
Frontignan, Syracuse, or Greek wine.
  This is, of course, only to be followed at great ban-
quets when you want to make a display; for smaller
parties a good Bordeaux, a good Rhine wine or Mo-
selle, andperhaps a bottle of champagne, or one of
sweet wine will be sufficient.
                        "
  For "dejeuners    mostly a light red and a white wine
are served, with one or two brands of heavy sweet wines.
If the dejeuner        be warm, you give Chablis to oysters,
Moselle to      fish    or    meat salads, Bordeaux      to   chops,
roast beef, etc., white         Burgundy or fine Rhine wine to
roasts; to bread, butter, and cheese English ale,                Ba-
varian beer or porter, or, at discretion, a Spanish or

Hungarian wine.
  For supper never serve any of those heavy sweet
94          HOW WINES SHOULD BE SERVED.

wines, but take Bordeaux, Rhine wine, or another good
white wine, and let follow champagne or a bowl.
     All these wines must have a certain degree of tem-

perature when they develop their virtues best; without
itthe "           of a wine will never be
           bouquet"                           developed
fully.   The lighter white wines must be served very
fresh and cool; put inferior Rhine wines    and Moselle
on ice, but fine Rhine wines and white Bordeaux must
never be too cold; red wine ought to have a tempera-
ture of about    58-6o   F.;    Burgundy is to be of the
common cellar temperature, as also Hungarian wines,
Madeira, Malaga, and all heavy sweet wines; the latter
ones ought to be rather warm than cold, and be taken
from the cellar a while before using. Champagne,
however, must be very cold and bcfrapf/for this pur-
pose, i. e., it must be placed in a cooler with cracked
ice mixed with a little salt.
0ome Sample Jttetws.
               ^FESTAL DINNERS
                       IN   HONOR OF THE PRESENCE OF

 H/S IMPERIAL ROYAL HIGHNESS, THE CROWN-PRINCE

        KREDERICK:
                                    -IN-

                 HAMBOURG, APRIL 20, 1877.
          Real Turtle                 )
                                                 Mo& et Chandon,
                                      >     Grand Crtmant Imperial,
          Consomme.                   )       Rosderer carte blanche.
Truffes de Perigord en serviette      i
                                                        i$34
   Timbales a la Richelieu.           \                Sherry.

 Turbot, Sauce Hollandaise,           \   T S68 Rauenthalerberg-Auslese,
Saumon du Rhin, Sauce Ge- >
           nevoise.                   ;         J 868 Konigsmosel.

Filet de Bceuf a la Jardiniere.       }   1858 Chdteau-Leoville Pay/tre".
 Poulardes du Mans Truffees.          }         1858 Clos- Vougeot.
Escalopes de Foie Gras a la           )
                                                      1858
          Parisienne.                 \         Hermitage Rouge.
  Bastion de    Homards au            )                 i8n
            Naturel.                  \           Vin de Madere.
 Fonds d'Artichauts a 1'Ital-         \                 t 8^8
            ienne,
                                                 Clos- Montrachet.
    Asperges en Branches.             )


 Becasses en Canapes aux              )
                                                      1859
            Laitues.                  {        Pichon Longueville.
Gelee de vin du Champagne,            \               1864
 Nougat Blanc a la Turque,            >    Chateau d' Yquern Creme de
      Creme d' Ananas.                3                 Tete.

                                                        * ^Z
     Beurre et Fromage.               \
                                      \    Vtn d Oporto, rouge et blanc.
                                          t86* CMteau Lafitte    >
      Desserts et Fruits.             |
                                      j
                                                   Schlossabzug      .



                                     97
98                    SOME SAMPLE MENUS.


           SCHLOSS HOTEL, HEIDELBERG.

Festal Dinner of the Secretaries of the Treasuries




                       August 5, 1878.

       Mock-turtle Soup,                         Sherry,
         Chicken Soup.                          Madeira.

     Trout, with Butter and
         Potatoes,                             Rhinegold.
 Turbot, Sauce Hollandaise.

  Venison, with Mushrooms,                    Markgrafler,
   Tenderloin, with Sauce a
          1'Empereur.                          Affenthaler.

  Sweetbread, with Truffles,                 Liebfrauenmtlk,
  Lobsters, with Sauce a la
            Tartare.                           St. Julien.


 New Sauerkraut, with Part-
            ridges.                        Weihenstephan Beer.
  Ham, boiled in Burgundy.
  Artichokes, with smoked                Johannisberger Cabinet,
            Salmon.                          Chateau Larose.

       French Poultry,                       Louis Rosderer,
Salad, and different preserved
            Fruits.                           carte blanche.


              Plum Pudding, with Vanilla Sauce,
            Maraschino Gelee, with preserved Fruits.
                           Ice-cream.
                               Fruits.
                              Dessert.
                     SOME SAMPLE MENUS.                                   99



          COLOGNE, SEPTEMBER 28, 1878.

UNVEILING OF THE ROYAL MONUMENT.




      Salad of Crawfish.           j>
                                                   Old Sherry.


       Chicken Soup,               )                   1870
      Mock-turtle Soup.            )
                                                    Pisporter.


    Fine Ragout in shells,         )               1874 Solberg,
  Turbot, with Mushrooms.          )
                                               Marquis de Therme.

      Ham in Madeira,                                 1874
 Sauerkraut, with Partridges,               Erdener Treppchen Auslese,
Green Peas, with Salmon and                           1874
           Tongue,                            Walporzheimer Domlay,
 Sweetbread-Fricassee, with                           1865
    Morels a la Bruxelles.                 Grand Vin Chateau Margaux.

Venison, with canned Fruits,      "1

                                              1868 Schloss Vollradser,
 French Capons, with Salad,
                                             1868 Steinberger Cabinet,
          Lobsters,
                                               1862 Johannisberger.
Strasbourg Goose-liver Pastry.    J




        Ice-cream,            1    *             Heidsieck Monopol,
          Cakes,                              Jules Mumm, carte rose,
      French Grapes,                           Rcederer, carte blanche,
         Ananas.              i
                                  ^    N          Giesler Goldlack,



                           Mocha Coffee.
100                 SOME SAMPLE MENUS.



                            TENDERED TO
                            BY
BISHOP LOUGHLIN T H E PRIESTS OF HIS DIOCESE,
                  OCTOBER 18, 189O.
                       Huitres en Coquilles.
                                                              Sauterne.
                                SOUPES.
  Consomme aux Quenelles,                Tortue Verte a 1'Anglaise.
                                                           Amontillado.
                         HORS D'CEUVRES.
      Coquilles St. Jacques,                 Saucisson de Lyon,
        Sardines,        Celeri,           Radis,         Olives.

                             POISSONS.
Saumon,                 Sauce Hollandaise,                Concombres,
                         Pommes Quelins.
                                                                 Mtdoc.
                              RELEVES.
Dinde Braisee a la Regence,                  Haricots Verts Frangais.
                              ENTREES.
  Filet de Bceuf a la Richelieu,                 Petits Pois Nature,
Riz de Veau en Caisses Bearnaises,             Asperges en Branches.
                                                             St. Julien.
                              SORBET.
                          Punch Remain.
                                 ROTI.

      Squabs de Philadelphie,                 Chicorie et Laitue.
                                                               Pomard.
                        ENTREMETS SUCRE'S.
Pudding de Cabinet,                      Gateaux Assortis Mendiants,
                        Glaces de Fantaisie.
                                                         Heidsieck Sec.   ,


                                                G. H.   Mumms E. D.
                             DESSERT.
Fruits de Saison,        Fromages,          Cafe Noir,         Cigares.
                       SOME SAMPLE MENUS.                               IOI



                 <1     BANQUETS
                               TENDERED TO

Rt. Rev.   JOHN LOUGHLIN, D.D., Bishop of Brooklyn,
                      BY THE LAITY ON THE OCCASION OF HIS

            GOIvDKINt                  JUBILKK,
                           OCTOBER 20, 1S90.
                           Huitres en Coquilles.            Haut Sauternes.
                                  SOUPES.                          Imperial.
  Consomme aux Quenelles,                            Tortue Verte.
                              HORS D'CEUVRES.
           Varies,                          Bouchees Duchesses.
                                 POISSONS.                     Rudesheimer.
Filet de Sole Farci au Vin Blanc,            Saumon, Sauce Genevoise,
                     Salade de Concombres.
                            RELEVES.             Chdteau Laroce.
              Selle de Venaison, Gelee de Groseille,
           Filet de Bceuf, aux Champignons Nouveaux,
  Pommes Duchesses,                 Petits Pois a la Frangaise.
                                  ENTREES.                  Moet et Ckandon,
                       Terrapene a la Maryland,     Brut Imperial.
                          Timbales Mathilde.    Perrier Jouet E. D.,
                                                                    Special.
                                 LEGUMES.
           Asperges,                           Sauce Hollandaise.
                                   PUNCH.                         Cigarettes.
                                 Loughlin.
                                   ROTIS.                       Chambertin.
    Perdreaux sur Canape,          Becassines au Cresson,
                    Salade de Chicoree.
                   ENTREMETS SUCRES.           Pommery Dry.
                      Savarins a 1'Imperatrice.        G. H.    Mumm E. D.
                                DESSERT.
                           Glaces en Surprises,
Fruits Glaces,       Gateaux, Petits Fours, Cosaques,              Bonbons,
                            Fruits de Saison.
                                 FROMAGES.
                                 Cafe Noir,
            Apollinaris,                                Cigars,
Lemon Soda,                       Ginger Ale,                      Liqueurs.
102                 SOME SAMPLE MENUS.


           HAIL AND FAREWELL BANQUET
                            TENDERED TO THE

INCOMING AND OUTGOING JUSTICES
                                 OF THE
        CITY COURT OK NEW YORK.
 The Hon. FITZSIMMONS,                    The Hon. NEWBERGER,
 The Hon. McADAM,                         The Hon. GIEGERICH,

                 By ttieir Associates.
                                HUITRES.                          Chablis.

                                POTAGES.                     Amontillado.
      Consomme Adelina,                      Tortue Verte Claire.
                            HORS D'CEUVRE.                  Pontet Canet.
                     Timbales a la Talleyrand.
                                POISSON.                   Liebfraiimikh.
        Aiguillettes de Bass,                      Dieppoise,
      Pommes de terre Anglaises,               Concombres.
                                RELEVES.                   G. H. Mumms.
Selle d'Antilope a la Grainville,                    Asperges.
                                ENTREES.                   G. H. Mumms.
Filet de Poulet a la Lucullus,               Petits Pois Parisiennes,
 Terrapene a la Maryland,             Sorbet Tosca.             Cigarettes.

                                 ROTIS.                      Chambertin.
        Canvasback Duck,                     Salade de Laitue.

                          ENTREMETS SUCRE'S.               Pommery Dry.
                          Poires a la Richelieu.

                               FROMAGES.                   G. H. Mumms.
      Glaces Fantaisie,            Fruits,            Petits Fours,
                  Cafe,                      Liqueurs.

                 LUNDI, LE 22 DECEMBRE,            1890.
                           DELMONICO'S.
                  SOME SAMPLE MENUS.                           103


            ANNUAL, BANQUKT,
New York        Board of Trade and Transportation,

         DELMONICO'S, THURSDAY, JAN. 29,             1891.




                            HUITRES.               Haut Sauternes.
                            POTAGES.                  Amontillado.
    Consomme Dubelloy,                  Bisque de Crevettes.
                         HORS D'CEUVRE.                  Batailley.
                       Timbales Ecarlatte.

                             POISSON.               Marcobnmner.
Saumon de 1'Oregon,                   Hollandaise Vert Pie,
                Pommes de Terre Duchesses.
                             RELEVE.                 Vve. Clicquot.
Filet de Boeuf aux Olives Farcies,         Choux Fleurs au Gratin.
                            ENTREES.               G. H. Mumm's.
Poularde a la Chevreuse,              Petits Pois a 1'Anglaise,
              Caisses de Ris de Veau Gram mo nt,
                      Haricots Panaches.

                        SORBET IMPERIAL.

                              ROTI.                    Chambertm.
                Canards a Tete Rouge (Froid),
Terrine de Foies Gras a la Gelee,      Salade de Laitue.

                      ENTREMET DE DOUCEUR.           Perrier Jouet.

      Pouding Favorite,                      Pieces Montees,
                         Glaces Fantaisie,
      Fruits,              Petits Fours,               Cafe.



   At this banquet the Hon. WILLIAM WINDOM, Secretary of
the Treasury, died.
3ntr0toicti0tt to       Miub Stinks:
       Containing joints to ttye professional
    Barkeeper anb General liemarks to H)t
        Introbuctton to Jtti*e& H3rink0,

     To those who do not find the following useful in its
details for their   own use, I express my congratula-
tions   and esteem as a business associate. To those
who do find it a guide I wish to express my assur-
ance that they will find this work an absolutely and
indispensably correct one to work by, provided they
understand and practice it.
     You may travel all over the country, and you will
find    my practice a good one.         In discharging your
duties you will find   many   little  you will not be
                                       hints
able to practice for not having the facilities to do so,
but I may say I have at least shown you how it ought
to be made and executed.    It must be left to your own

judgment to follow the directions given herein the best
way you know of, and leave out what ought to be left
out, because your position does not offer you the oppor-

tunity.    I have mentioned in this work everything that

isnecessary for a theoretical experience. It should be
borne in mind: Not everybody can advance so as to be-
come an artist in tending bar, but we all should learn,
and try to improve by all means that are offered. I am
far from believing it possible to become a practical man

by simply studying this book, but while doing so, you
will get an essential and true idea of how to become a
                              107
IO8         INTRODUCTION TO MIXED DRINKS.

valuable man in this line of business.   Every man can
educate himself and acquire all the knowledge neces-
sary for tending bar, provided he takes enough interest
and wants to make it a business.     Practical knowledge
cannot be acquired except by actual work and experi-
ence.
     An inexpert cook never will become an artist nor a
chef de cuisine by simply reading a book on cookery,
no matter by whom or how intelligently written, and
no man can ever become an artist behind the bar by
simply looking into this book or possessing it. A great
deal of ingenuity and taste is required on the part of a

chef'm an important position, and the same is required
on the part of a man in the capacity of a bartender.
He, having a position of responsibility, must be a man
of original ideas, a manwho is proud of his work and
who tries to discharge his duties with credit to himself,
his employer, and the guest he waits on.     Originality
is   the key to success.   Therefore, always try to work
accordingly;    make a change in the old system, if you
see it needs improvement; introduce it to your guests
instead of being taught by them what to do.       A
                                                  bar-
tender ought to be leading and not to be led. An actor
must understand for himself how to amuse his audience
and how to gain a reputation: he never would succeed
by simply following another man's guidance.
  The situation of a barkeeper gives the holder the
chance of studying human nature. A man fit for the
position, and consequently a     keen observer   for   one
             HINTS AND GENERAL REMARKS.                      109


thing cannot be separated from the other will be able
to tell a man's character very soon, as far as conduct,

education, language, and general savoir-vivre are con-
cerned.
     Such a situation is a better teacher of human nature
than any book howsoever, and by whomsoever it may be
             " Tell me what
written.                        you drink and I will tell you
who you are."         The tastes and habits of your different
customers appear to you so plain, that you have to take
an interest in this study of human nature.
     As a general rule you will find that only a little part
of drinking is done       by one individual. A gentleman
either brings his       company with him or he expects to
find it in the barroom.        It is in drinking as it is in eat-

ing: very few want to enjoy their drinks by themselves.
     As to my individual belief, all men are born equal,
with a heart full of honesty;       I   cannot believe any one
might think otherwise.         If any one grows up to become

different,   it is   the fault of his surroundings or his own
carelessness.         How any one can lie without knowing
what he does it for, I cannot comprehend.            Thus with
me    !
          Many a time I have been asked concerning mixed
drinks:    What do you think of them in regard to their
effect and result to the stomach ?          Many a time I have
heard the complaint, mixed drinks make a person sick;
consequently we do not believe in them; we think them
to be bad and a failure.  Patience, my dear patrons             !




Most cheerfully I give the following answer: Drinking
isa luxury, water and milk excepted, and any man will
IIO          INTRODUCTION TO MIXED DRINKS.

admit this fact who is not a slave to drinking.             First
of all, if you    make a mixed drink, your honesty must
force you to use pure articles only.        Suppose you need
for your drink three or four ingredients; take every
article genuine but one, and you will spoil the entire

drink by the one that is not genuine.        Therefore, order
mixed drinks only in reliable places.
  Secondly    :   Never order a mixed drink when you
are in a hurry; you can get a well-mixed drink only
when you devote the time absolutely necessary to pre-
       it.
pare
  Thirdly:    The mixer ought to be careful not to use
too much of one ingredient and too           little of   another.
Do not get too much water in your drink when you
prepare drinks with ice; find the suitable temperature,
not too warm nor too cold; chiefly, however, be careful
in your measurements, and compare a plain drink in its

size with your mixed one.

  Mixing drinks might be compared to music; an or-
chestra will produce good music, provided all players
are artists; but have only one or two inferior musicians
in your band, and you may be convinced they will spoil

the entire harmony.
  A man who        is   a slave to drinking will always prefer

something strong, even if less palatable, and the effect
is generally harmful to his brain; whereas the man who

believes in mixed drinks may hurt his stomach, in case
he drinks too much; but even this too much will never
reach the quantity of the former.
           HINTS AND GENERAL REMARKS.                 Ill



  It must be borne in mind:    Drinking is an art, and it
requires practice to know how to drink, what to drink,
and when to drink. Drinking is like eating. Who but
a cannibal would not prefer his viands prepared in a

palatable form ?     That fancy cooking is not injurious,
we have full proof of; we know of aged people of the
past and of the present who spent a little fortune in
having their dishes made to suit their taste. As good
eating depends on the cook, so     good drinking on the
expert barkeeper.
  A distinguished Englishman, Mr. T., one day told
me: " We do not have much mixed drinks in our coun-
                                   "
try."   Whereupon I asked him:      Why do your coun-
trymen mix ale with porter, or Bass ale with ginger
      "  "
ale ?      Well, it makes the drink more pleasant to the
taste."  I needed no more answer.

  A man gets tired of good company, of good friends,
or even of his best girl   why should we wonder at see-
ing him getting tired of mixed drinks ?    I   cannot help

stating the fact that our drinking capacity is increas-
ing, compared with former times.       Not everybody is
capable of criticising and appreciating a good drink,
more so a mixed one.       Never smoke when you want to
enjoy a fine drink, nor chew; never drink anything
mixed when you do not feel well. For medical pur-
poses, plain drinks are preferable.
  When I began my business as bartender, I was only
a boy and hardly able to keep up with the demands of

my employer; I remembered this often enough after-
112          INTRODUCTION TO MIXED DRINKS.


wards; yet the imagination on my part was at that
time like that of the rest of boys of the same age. But
with the advance in age, this imagination faded, for it
had to; and now I began to learn.            A
                                       period of a few
years passed and I began to believe I knew something;
undoubtedly I did, but how little      !   and every day con-
vinces   me more and more how much there is to be
learned, although I have given particular care to this
business close on to thirty years.
  How often a man will overestimate himself, because
he happens to be successful, as well as another one
willundervalue his dexterity because good luck did
not favor him. Perhaps you think I was born with a
fortune waiting for me;    I   was, but I was not to keep it,
and only my misfortune in younger years is the cause,
and has ever since been, that made me work hard and
seek new ideas.     There is no more reason for a well-off
man to give up his ambition than there is for another,
who did not meet with success, to despair. Surely it is
a nice, pleasant feeling for any one to be born rich; but
to be born with a silver spoon in the mouth and to die
with a fortune behind you, without having shown that

you accomplished something of value through your
daily toils and labors no I would rather be a dog
                                 !




than a man without ambition and a record of toil.
  My dear readers     !   Never was I guilty of not enjoy-
ing myself at every opportunity after business hours,
and I never will let the time pass by without doing so
hereafter.    It is a pleasure to    me to enjoy the labor,
               HINTS AND GENERAL REMARKS.                113


the skill and the talent of others, and I know       how to
value and appreciate it, but    still   my greatest pleasure
is   to amuse others;   and you will find, " True happiness
is gained by making others happy." Often have I done

extra work to amuse my friends, for the pleasure I felt
was ample reward.
     I   would mention right here some of my little extra
doings, different from the usual way.         When you are
not pushed for time, while you are making mixed drinks,
cool your glasses with ice before you serve your drink;
in serving a strained drink, you        begin with serving a
glass of ice-water; then fill your glass, into which you
are to strain your drink, with ice.     You may place your
glasses together in the form of a pyramid and ornament
your structure with fruits and flowers.       Now begin to
prepare your drink.      By following these hints you will
accomplish several purposes      :
                                     Firstly, you will please
the eye of your  customer; secondly, you will have
thoroughly cooled glasses; thirdly, you will not need
to wipe your glasses dry, etc.
     On a hot summer day you will find such little extras
to a great advantage to the business practically, i. e.,

financially.     A drink well served is worth two that lack
in presentation.

     When a drink is made with ice and then strained,
there should be nothing left in the glass but the liquid;
the fruit would hinder you in drinking, it would touch
the mustache;    if you want to eat it you cannot get it

out, and the fruit has lost its natural aroma; fruit ought,
114           INTRODUCTION TO MIXED DRINKS.


consequently, to be presented separately, if it is desired
on your guest's part.
   Very different it is when you have a drink in which
the ice is to remain; in this case use plenty of fruits, as
it is   pleasing to the eye and allows your guest to eat it
if he likes.


                Reasons   Why Men Drink.
   MEN drink to quench thirst, on account of a drink's
effect, to get an appetite, to promote digestion, to en-

joy its taste, for curiosity, from habit, because of dis-
couragement, on account of ambition, to forget poverty,
to show their riches, because of sickness, because they
do not feel well, for the purpose of learning, to dispel
sorrow.       This one wants to warm himself; that one is
overheated and wants to get cool; one has lost in Wall
Street; another's shares have gone up; one man's best

girl    went back on him; another is going to marry the
best girl in town; one drinks behind the door, another in
a public place.     Some men will drink out of pure style;
they want to show their diamonds and jewelry, their
costly clothes, and mainly their money. But most men
will drink because it is " business." remember a cir-
                                         I

cumstance that occurred between a diamond broker of
Maiden Lane and myself. One fine morning a custo-
mer entered his store to buy goods, but the broker did
not succeed in selling, when all at once the idea struck
him,
     "    A
          nice drink might bring him to terms." He in-
vited his customer and up they came to the bar.    With
             HINTS AND GENERAL REMARKS.                   115


a twinkle in his eye he ordered " Two of those famous
Sans Soucis."    I   went to work and built up the glasses,
a 1'Eiffel tower, with all the necessary fruits and flowers,
and after having received a pleasant compliment from
my guest, I saw them going down to the store once
more.   As I was afterwards informed, the broker sold
his customer $10,000 worth of goods with ease.



                        Haw to Start.
  CLEAN the top of your counter first, remove all uten-
sils from   under the counter and place them on the top;
clean your bench.       Before beginning with your glass-
ware, add a little    salt to the water as it will help in

polishing your glasses.       Fill all   your liquor bottles,
pack your working boxes with fine ice, cut up the fruit
for immediate use, clean your silverware.    Fill your

ice-boxes with ice.      Afterward clean your back bar.
  As an appropriate suit behind the bar I would men-
tion the following: a pair of black trousers, a long, white

apron, a white shirt, a white collar, a black tie, a white
vest, and a white coat; care     should be taken to have
the suit fit well; have the sleeves of your coat cut, that

you may button it tight; this will prevent its getting
soiled and worn out; never have your suit starched.


                         Glassware.

  IN selecting your glassware, choose perfectly white
color, also for your bottles, as they look much more in-
Il6         INTRODUCTION TO MIXED DRINKS.


viting.   To keep them clean, use egg-shells, salt, paper,
or chopped ice.      It should be remembered that shot is

very poisonous and scratches the glass.          Soda ought
also to be avoided.     Use only plain but good glass-
ware, it being the best.

                           Fruits.

  Lemons.   Lemons intended for squeezing should be
peeled before using. The juice ought not to be older
than a day.    It   must be strained thoroughly.      Lime-
juice   may be mixed with lemon-juice; the mixture is
cheaper and better.       The   fresh   lemon-peel   is   very
useful for flavoring and decorating the drinks.

  Oranges.     A medium size of dark-colored ones           is

the best for squeezing, as well as cutting up.     Use from
six to twelve oranges, according to the demand of the

business;   peelthem and take them apart carefully;
place them in a punch-bowl, add some fine sugar, pour
either Rhine wine, sherry wine or brandy over it;
let it stand in a cold place from three to six hours, and

serve a piece to your customer after the drink, and you
will find it will be appreciated.

  The Delicious Pineapple.      Pineapple may be used in
the same way as oranges, the juice or syrup being al-
most indispensable.
  Choice Grapes.      To make a drink of inviting appear-
ance choice grapes are necessary,        for   decorating as
well as simply presenting.
  In addition to these fruits, a few others ought to be
             HINTS AND GENERAL REMARKS.


kept on hand: Strawberries, raspberries, blackberries
and cherries. They may be prepared the same way as
the other fruits.
  Never handle       fruits   with your ringers, but use a

fancy fruit-fork.

                      Canned      Fruits.

  AT a time when there are no fresh fruits to be had,
canned goods may be taken instead of them. The juice
or the syrup of them lends a very aromatic flavor to
drinks   such as cobblers, punches, sours,           fizzes   and
lemonades.     You also may present a little of these
fruits to your customers.

   To persons who drink strong liquors, the use of
fruits is of a much greater advantage than lunch. The
proper way of serving such little relishes is to put them
in a separate little glass, or present on a fork or a

toothpick.

                    Further Instructions.

  NEVER allow yourself to be idle behind the bar; be
ready to serve at once when a customer enters. When
a drink is ordered that requires water, fill your glass
with fine ice, and pour over it water out of a pitcher in
full view of your guest.       This rule must necessarily be
carried out in performing every one of your duties.            A
bottle never must be more than half empty.           For strong
drinks, always serve      two glasses       one   for the drink,

the other for the water.        Serve sherry and port wine
Il8         INTRODUCTION TO MIXED DRINKS.

in their respective glasses only;   never doit in whiskey
tumblers.
  For shaking drinks with the shaker, use only a mix-
ing-tumbler; by using goblets you will soil your clothes,
and the goblets might break. Shake your drink well;
without that you never will get a first-class drink. This
has special reference to such drinks as       fizzes,   milk

punches, egg-noggs, frappes, and similar drinks, con-
taining sugar. Good mixing is a hard work; but with-
out good mixing you spoil the best liquor.
  In serving your guest, be pleasant, but quiet.     Never
commence to converse, only answer questions.         Never
                     held between your guests, nor
listen to conversation

hold any conversation behind the bar with your co-
workers.    In receiving money, avoid mistakes; in re-

turning change, be careful. Observe who orders drinks,
and, if you give a check, hand it to the right person;
mistakes in this respect will often lead to disputes.
Treat every one respectfully, but do not lose your dig-
nity in the proper place.     You can do this only by
using good and selected language, and be conservative
in your actions.

  As we mention syrup or gum so often, we think it a
necessity to call your attention to the way of making
and using it.
  Take an enameled pot, of about half a gallon; put in
this one and a half quarts of water and   two pounds of
loaf-sugar; let this boil over a slow fire; stir   now and
then, and skim well; if too thick, add a little boiling
              HINTS AND GENERAL REMARKS.                 IIQ


water, and strain into a bottle.    It ought to   be kept in
a cold place.      Do not prepare too large quantities, as
it is   best to have it fresh.
   Rock - candy gum  is prepared in the same way.

Cocktail gum should be absolutely white.
                                       ?Drittk0:


                               Containing

       Sour0,                                  (ftimpevance !Brink0,

          0cktaU0,                             Cobblers,


       |htttcl)e0 (for    %    bar u0e),       fi^e0,
                                               JDtt)er0e.




    NOTE.                                                    l
                Whenever in any recipe you find /$, or %, or /e,
                                                    l
                                                                 etc., it

means }/$, etc., of the final drink.   A dash being no definite measure, I
                           1
must leave it to the mixer s good judgment to suit his customers' taste.
              1.   3ack frost tUI)i0kg Sour.

   Into a mixing-glass squeeze the juice of half a lemon,
                   i
                       barspoonful of sugar,
                   i   fresh egg,
                   i
                    pony of fresh cream,
                   idrink of apple whiskey.
   Fill your glass with cracked ice and shake thoroughly; strain

into a high, thin glass, and fill the balance with imported seltzer.




                       2.   Sour d la     dreole.


   The juice of a large lime in a large glass,
                   a barspoonful of fine sugar,
                   a dash of seltzer; mix this well;
                   /t drink of Santa Cruz rum,
                   l




                   Yz drink of Jamaica rum.
    Mix this well, fill your glass with fine ice, ornament with
fruits in season, put a little ice-cream on top, and serve.




           3. tDljiaktg       Sotir d la Owillaume.

   A large glass with fine ice,
                   the juice of half a lemon,
                   3 dashes of gum,
                   a drink of whiskey,
                   2 spoonfuls of cream.
   Shake this, strain, and serve.
                                    123
124                           MIXED DRINKS.


                    4.    $!)     ^Delicious Sour.


   A goblet with the juice of a lime,
                    a squirt of seltzer,
                    a spoonful of sugar,
                    l
                    /z of apple-jack,
                    l
                  /z of peach brandy,
                  the white of an egg.
   Fill your glass with ice, shake well, strain, and serve.




                   5.    Oriental Branbn Sour.


   Into a mixing-glass squeeze the juice of half a lemon,
                 a barspoonful of sugar,
                    the juice of half an orange,
                    the white of an egg,
                    a drink of peach brandy.
   Fill the glass with cracked ice,     shake to the freezing-point,
strain into a fancy glass, and serve.




                         6.     tU!)t0keg Sour.


   A goblet with the juice of half a lemon or lime in the bottom,
                   a squirt of seltzer,
                   a little sugar; mix this;
                    % full of ice,
                   a drink of whiskey; mix this well.
   Strain, and serve.



                         7.


   It is   made as a whiskey sour; only put a dash of some cordial
on top, such as chartreuse or Curasao.
                              MIXED DRINKS.                 12$



                        8. 3lb0intl)e Cocktail.

A goblet of shaved ice,
                  2 dashes of maraschino,
                  i   dash of bitters (orange),
                  i   dash of anisette,
                  i
                      pony of absinthe.
Stir very well, strain into a cocktail glass, and serve.


                              9.    <ftl)


Fill a large glass two-thirds full of fine ice,
                  i   dash of gum,
                  i   dash of absinthe,
               a little vino vermouth,
               1
                 pony of Old Tom gin,
               2 dashes of orange bitters,
               2 dashes of curagao.
Stir well, and strain into a fancy glass.


                      10.          Stye ^Anticipation.

A glass with fine ice,
                  1   dash of absinthe,
                  2 dashes of gum,
                  Yz of sherry wine,
                  YT.       of vino vermouth.
Freeze this well        ;
                            strain and serve.


            11.             i)e
                                  Bitttr-groert Cocktail.
A glass with ice,
                  /$ drink of kiimmel,
                  l




                  YJ,       drink of vino vermouth,
                  4 dashes of absinthe,
                  i dash of bitters (orange),


                  3 dashes of gum,
                  i dash of anisette.


Stir, strain,   and serve.
126                     MIXED DRINKS.


                12.        t)e
                                 rmt
  Fill a glass with ice,

                 3 dashes of gum,
                 Yz pony of absinthe,
                 2 dashes of bitters (calisaya),
                 i   dash of orange bitters,
                 i   dash of vino vermouth.
  Stir this well, strain, and serve.



                       13.

  A goblet two-thirds full of fine ice,
                 2 dashes of gum,
                 i   dash of bitters,
                 i   dash of absinthe,
                 % of vino vermouth,
                 l
                 /s of sherry wine.
  Stir well, strain, and serve.


                14. Slpjitttjer ct I'Stalienne.

                 z
                 /i of vino vermouth,
                 /$ of Fernet branca,
                 l



                 1   dash of absinthe,
                 2 dashes of gum.
  A little ice in the glass, stir well, strain, and serve.

                           15.    '3Utrore.

  A goblet filled with fine ice,
                 1   dash of gum,
                 2 dashes of orange bitters,
                 /z of vino vermouth,
                 l




                 H of Old Tom gin,
                 i dash of absinthe,
                 i dash of maraschino.
  Stir, strain, and serve with a little fruit.
                            MIXED DRINKS.                              I2/



                         16.    Sfye Beginner.

   A goblet with fine ice,
                  2 dashes of gum,
                  2 dashes of orange bitters,
                  1    dash of absinthe,
                  Yi of French vermouth,
                  Yi of Russian kiimmel.
   Stir this well, strain, and serve.



                      17.      t)e   Brain-Duster.

   Into a mixing-tumbler squeeze the juice of a lime,
                  2 dashes of gum,
                  1
                       pony of absinthe,
                  2 dashes of vino vermouth,
                  2 dashes of sherry wine.
   Fill your glass with ice, stir, strain,   and serve.


                            18.

   A goblet with 2 dashes of gum,
                  i    dash of bitters,
                  i    dash of absinthe,
                  % of vino vermouth,
                   Ys of Russian kiimmel,
                  1    dash of creme de roses.
   Fill your glass with ice, stir, strain,   and serve.


                         19.   ai)e linrt      ne.

   A goblet with fine ice,
                  2 dashes of gum,
                   Yi   pony of creme de menthe,
                  i
                       pony of Old Tom gin,
                   i   dash of orange bitters.
   Squeeze the juice of a lemon-peel to it;       stir well, strain,   and
serve.
128                       MIXED DRINKS.

                       20.     l)t
                                        latetone.

  Fill a tumbler half-full with fine ice,
                 2 dashes of gum,
                a little maraschino,
                2 dashes of bitters,
                 i dash of absinthe,

                 i drink of
                            whiskey,
                 i dash of Jamaica rum,

                 1 dash of Russian kiimmel.

  Stir well and strain into a cocktail glass.


                21.     fijollanb    <B>in   Cocktail.

  A goblet filled with fine ice,
                  2 dashes of gum,
                  i   dash of absinthe,
                  1   drink of Holland gin,
                  2 dashes of orange bitters.
  (i   dash of green chartreuse may be added.)
  Stir this well, strain, and serve.


                      22. jjollanb's         flrib*.
  A mixing glass % full of ice,
                 3 dashes of gum.
                 2 dashes of bitters,
                 1    dash of absinthe,
                 % of Holland gin,
                  YI of vino vermouth.
  Stir well, strain, and serve.


                 23. fttanljattan Cocktail
  Half a tumblerful of cracked ice,
                 2 dashes of gum,
                 2 dashes of bitters,
                 i    dash of absinthe,
                 % drink of whiskey,
                 Y$    drink of vino vermouth.
  (A little maraschino may be added.)
  Stir this well, strain, and serve.
                            MIXED DRINKS.                           I2Q



                         24. Imperial        pal.

   A mixing-glass % filled with fine ice,
                  i
                      pony of absinthe,
                  i dash of anisette,
                  1 dash of chartreuse
                                       (yellow).
   Shake this to the freezing-point; strain into a cocktail glass;
drop a little creme de roses in the centre, and serve


                            25.   ai)e     pal.

   A goblet with ice,
                  2 dashes of gum,
                  i
                      pony of absinthe,
                  i   dash of maraschino.
   Stir well, strain into a cocktail glass;       pour a little creme de
menthe in the centre, which will go to the bottom, and serve.


                         26.      l)e   IJtmroer.

   A large glass % full of fine ice,
                  i dash of bitters,
                  1 dash of absinthe,
                  ^j of vino vermouth,
                  }/(,
                         of anisette,
                  l
                 /6 of curagao.
   Mix well, strain into a fancy glass, and present.


                         27. Solra Cocktail.

   A large glass with a spoonful of sugar,
                   squeeze a little oil of the peel of a lemon on it,
                   a little fine ice,
                   2 dashes of bitters.
   Pour in a bottle of plain soda slowly with your left hand,
while you stir it with your right hand, and present; strain if de-
sired.
     9
130                       MIXED DRINKS.


                 28.        om       in   Cocktail

  A goblet filled with ice,
                 2 small dashes of gum,
                 i   dash of absinthe,
                 1   drink of Old Tom gin,
                 2 dashes of orange bitters.

  (A dash of green chartreuse may be added.)
  Stir well, strain, and serve.


                       29. Club Cocktail.

  Half a glassful of ice,
                 2 dashes of gum,

                 % of Old Tom gin,
                 YS of vino vermouth,
                 2 dashes of orange bitters,
                 i   dash of green chartreuse.
  Stir well, strain, and serve.



                     30. farmontl) Cocktail.

  A glass with some fine ice,
                 1   dash of bitters,
                 2 dashes of maraschino,
                 i   dash of absinthe,
                 i   drink of vino vermouth.
  Stir to the freezing-point, and strain into a cocktail glass.



                     3L     !)e   tiheper's log.

  A goblet % full of fine ice,
                 3 dashes of gum,
                 Yz pony of absinthe,
                 % pony of vino vermouth,
                 Yz pony of kiimmel,
                 i   dash of Curasao.
  Stir very well, and strain into a cocktail glass.
                           MIXED DRINKS.                         131



                        32. tDtiske      Cocktail.

     Half a glassful of fine ice,
                    squeeze a little lemon-peel over it,
                    3 dashes of gum,
                    2 dashes of bitters,
                    i dash of absinthe,

                    i drink of
                                whiskey.
     Stir this well, strain and serve.


                    33. got tipple           Sottrji.

     A lump of sugar dissolved in half a glass of boiling water,
                    a drink of apple whiskey.
     Add a piece of a roasted apple, if you wish, and serve with a
little nutmeg.


                         34. got Btef-Sea.

     Break an egg in the bottom of a cup; beat it well;
                  a drink of sherry,
                    a spoonful of beef-tea.
     Fill the balance with boiling water; stir well, season to taste,
and serve.
                         35. got Benefactor.
     A hot punch-glass with 2 or 3 lumps of sugar,
                    Yz glass of boiling water to dissolve,
                    % of Chianti,
                    /s of Jamaica rum,
                    l



                    i slice of lemon.
     Grate a little nutmeg on top, and serve.


             36. aije       ttr
                                  Btgle of    Hue Blazer.
   The same as a hot Scotch, only take a hot silver mug, pour
in your hot Scotch and light it; leave it burning for about 2
minutes, while you pour it into another hot mug, and vice versa;
then serve.
132                       MIXED DRINKS.


                         37. got Branbg.

   A  hot glass with 2 lumps of sugar, well dissolved in   ^ glass
of boiling water,
                  % of brandy,
                   ^3   of Burgundy.
   Mix this well, and add a slice of orange.


                   38. gong Kong         JJtmcl).


   The juice of a lime, and 3 dashes of pineapple-juice     in the
bottom of a hot, thin glass,
                a spoonful of sugar,
                a cup of strong boiling tea,
                 a drink of Jamaica rum,
                 2 dashes of brandy,
                 a piece of sliced lemon.
   If not hot enough add a little hot water.        (You may add a
dash of maraschino.)


                        39. Catt be Bottle.

                            (FOR THE SICK.)

   Break the yolks of 2 fresh eggs in the bottom of a glass, beat
this up well with a spoonful of sugar, and 3 spoonfuls of orange-
flower extract, until the eggs begin to look white; while you stir
with one hand, add a glass of hot water, a pony of brandy, and
stir well before serving.




                 40. got Italian Cemonabe.

   The juice of half a lemon and of half an orange,
                  a large spoonful of sugar.
   Fill your glass nearly up with boiling water; add a little
Chianti; stir, and serve with a little nutmeg on top.
                          MIXED DRINKS.                           133



                      41. Catries'     jot   Jtenclj.


   A  hot glass half full of boiling water, with 2 lumps of sugar
well dissolved,
                  YZ drink of sherry wine,
                  YZ drink of port wine;      mix this well;
                  i   slice of orange, and a little nutmeg on the top.




       42. $0t          range Cemonatre, twtl)


   In a large wineglass squeeze the juice of a lime, and the
juice of an orange,
                  a large spoonful of sugar; dissolve this well;
                  i
                      pony of brandy; mix well.
   While you    stir with  one hand, fill your glass with boiling
milk slowly.


                 43. $ot lei tlHne Jhmcl).

   A large, hot glass with the juice of half a lemon in the
bottom,
                  3 lumps of sugar,
                  Y* glass of boiling water; dissolve this well;
                  a glass of claret,
                  a dash of Jamaica rum.
   Mix this thoroughly; add a slice of an orange, and a little
cinnamon.


                          44.    jot   0ortd).


   A hot glass half full of boiling water,
                  a lump or two of sugar; dissolve well;
                  a drink of Scotch whiskey; mix this.
                                  and a little nutmeg.
   If desired, -a little lemon-peel,
134                          MIXED DRINKS.


                           45. 21 Sure      Belief.


   A punch-glass half full of boiling water,
                  2 lumps of sugar; dissolve well;
                  i
                          pony of peppermint,
                  i       dash of Jamaica ginger,
                  i
                          pony of brandy,
                  I dash of
                            raspberry syrup,
                  the peel of a little lemon, and serve.



                            46. Black Host.

   A hot glass with 2 lumps of sugar,
                  3 or 4 cloves,
                  a piece of cinnamon,
                  Y* glass of boiling water;        mix well.
   Fill   your glass with Assmannshauser, and add a piece of
orange.

                          47. Srotcf) Delight.

   A hot glass with 2 lumps of sugar,
                  / glass of boiling water; dissolve well;
                  l
                      2

                  Yz of Scotch whiskey,
                  Yt of Irish whiskey,
                  i   dash of claret.
   Mix well, and add a little lemon-peel.


                      48. Jancg $at Styerrg.

  A hot glass half full of boiling water,
                  2 small lumps of sugar; dissolve well;
                  a drink of sherry,
                  a dash of port wine,
                  YZ slice of lemon,
                  a little cinnamon on the top.
                             MIXED DRINKS.                       135



                          49. 6u)eM0l)      |)uncl).

   A hot glass half filled with boiling water; add to this enough
Swedish punch essence to make it palatable; add a little nut-
meg if desired.
                          50. $ot Spiccb Hum.

   A hot, thin glass half filled with boiling water,
                  1   or 2 lumps of sugar; dissolve this well;
                  a drink of Jamaica rum,
                  a dash of claret,
                  a small piece of butter,
                  a roasted cracker,
                  2 or 3 cloves, and serve.



                  51. 13a0e-Ball           Cemouak.
   A fresh egg in the bottom of a glass,
                  the juice of a lemon,
                  a spoonful of sugar,
                  a little fine ice,
                  / of water,
                  l
                      z

                  % of milk.
   Shake this very well, and serve.

                      52. Bat)arot0e a          Tau.
   A large bar-glass,
                  l
                  /2,     full of capillaire syrup,

                  i barspoonful of orange-flower water.
   Fill the glass with boiling water or tea, squeeze the oil of a
little lemon-peel on the top.



                  53. Bat)arm0             JHmcahte.
   Put i barspoonful of pulverized sugar and the yolk of an egg
in a large glass; stir it well with a spoon,
                  i
                          pony of old Jamaica rum.
   Fill the balance with boiling milk while stirring.
136                       MIXED DRINKS.


                      54. Italian Cemonato.

       The juice of half a peeled lemon and orange,
                  a large spoonful of fine sugar,
                  the glass full of ice.
   Fill your glass with water, shake this well, add a little dash of

Chianti; ornament with fruits and ice-cream.



              55. Haapberrn Cemonafoe, uritl) lUine.

       The juice of a lime or a lemon,
                    a spoonful of sugar,
                    the juice of i dozen raspberries.
       your glass with ice, add a glass of sherry or port wine,
       Fill

   your glass up with water, shake well, ornament with fruits
fill

and ice-cream, and serve with a straw.


                       56. Sofia Ccmonabe.

       The juice of yz lemon,
                    1
                      spoonful of sugar,
                    dissolve well in a large glass,
                  2 or 3 lumps of ice.
   Pour in your plain soda with the left hand while you stir with
the right, and serve.


                      57. Setter Cemonalre.

       It is made the same way,   only use Seltzer instead of soda.


                   58. Straroborn} Cemonate.

       The juice of a lemon,
                    i
                      spoonful of sugar in a large glass.
                    the juice of i dozen strawberries.
   Fill your glass one-third full of ice and the balance with milk;
shake this very well and strain into a long, thin glass.
                           MIXED DRINKS.                         137



                    59.     l)iolct   Cemoiwbe.

   Mix a tablespoonful of violet syrup and a spoonful of sugar
with the juice of >^ lemon in a glass of water (cold); this is a very
pleasant drink, especially adapted against headache and nervous
diseases.


                            60.

   In a large glass the juice of half a lemon,
                  a spoonful of pineapple syrup,
                  a spoonful of sugar,
                  3 dashes of creme de violet.
   Fill your glass with ice, shake well, ornament with ice-cream
and berries, and serve with a straw.


                    61.    Cemonabe     Jlarfait.


   Put the rind of twelve peeled lemons in three quarts of boil-
ing water; press their juice, after cooling, into the fluid; add one
and a half pounds of pulverized sugar, three-fourths of a quart
of Rhine    wine and   i
                           pint of boiled milk; stir well and strain
through canton flannel.


                       62. Apricot      Sljerbrt.


   From three pounds of ripe apricots select the largest ones, put
the smaller ones with three gills of water in a stone pot, let boil
until the pits fall out, strain the juice through canton flannel and

squeeze the fruits well; boil the juice with one pound of sugar
to a thick syrup; boil the larger ones soft in one and a half quarts
of water until they burst.     Take them out and remove the pits.
Strain the water, in which they were boiled, into a bowl, add the
syrup, put the fruit in, cut in two, with    some lumps of ice, and
season with almond essence.
138                        MIXED DRINKS.


                   63. Baiwroiac au Cljocolat

    Put in a vessel partly filled with boiling water a pot with one
quart of milk; break five ounces of vanilla chocolate and drop
it into the milk; stir continually, but never let the milk boil;

hand out the glasses, put in every one a tablespoon ful of sugar
syrup and fill in the chocolate concoction; serve it hot



                   64. B<nwrot0e a I'jftalunne.

   Put two teaspoonfuls of pulverized sugar and a bit of powdered
cinnamon in a glass; add one-half of coffee and the other half of
chocolate dissolved in boiling water; serve it hot.



                     65. Batwroi0e au Cait.

   Take a large glass, fill it to one-third with capillaire syrup,
add a teaspoonful of orange-flower water and fill it up with boil-
ing milk.

                     66. Btlberrg Cemoiwfo.

   One pint of bilberry-juice is mixed with two quarts cff cold
water; add one and a half pounds of powdered sugar, in case the
juice should not have been sweetened before; mix well and serve
cold.

                     67.     t)m*a Cemonafo.

    Put two pounds of sour cherries in a tureen, mash them with
a wooden spoon and pour two and a half or three quarts of boil-
ing water over it. A small poiti6n of the pits is cracked, put
them in the tureen, cover well and let soak about three hours;
filter; mix with a quart of sugar refined and cleared to syrup and
let it get cold.  A spoonful of St. Croix rum or arrack increases
the fine taste of this lemonade exceedingly.
                            MIXED DRINKS.                          139



                     68.        (Kljerrg

                                (FOR THE SICK.)

      Mash one pound of dried sour cherries, pits and all, and boil
it   in one quart of water with the rind of half a lemon and a small
stick ofcinnamon slowly half an hour; strain through flannel,
sweeten with sugar to taste and keep it in a bottle for use.



                          69. OHjerrg Sorbet.


   From three pounds of sour cherries a number of the largest
and finest are selected the juice of the rest is pressed through a
                            ;



cloth into a pot and heated to boiling with one pound of sugar;
the selected large cherries are boiled soft in one to one and a half
quarts of water; take them from the fire, lift them out carefully,
put them in a bowl with one quart of the water in which they
were boiled and with their juice, add a few drops of rose or
orange-flower essence and a few lumps of ice, and serve.



                                70.   Olitronelle.


      Use a large glass with some fine ice,
                    Ys glass of green tea,

                    /$ glass of black tea,
                    l



                    YT,   glass of lemon syrup.
      Shake well, and serve.


                        71. Currant Canonatoe.


   Half a quart of fresh' currant-juice is mixed with one quart of
cold water and one pound of sugar and strained through a flan-
nel; or you take currant syrup;            mix one pound of it with the
juice of a lemon and one and one-fourth quarts of cold water.
140                    MIXED DRINKS.


              72.   (Sngltel)   Jtlilk   Cemonabe.

    Peel the rind of two fine lemons very thinly, squeeze the juice
of the lemons, cut the rind into small pieces, and let it soak for
about twelve hours; filter; mix with two pounds of sugar refined
to syrup, a bottle of sherry, and two and a half quarts of fresh,
boiling milk. Clear the lemonade by filtering often enough
through a flannel bag, and a very cooling summer-drink will
crown your efforts.


                      73. Jig Sorbet.

   Cut off the stems of two pounds of large dried figs; pierce
each with a wooden pick several times; infuse with one and a half
quarts of boiling water over night, strain, add a few drops of
orange-flower water, some lumps of ice, and the figs, and serve.


                74. <B>oo0eberrg Ccmonabe.

   To one quart of water add one pint of gooseberry-juice, and
one pound of pulverized sugar.


                     75. Ice Cemonato.

    Well-prepared orange or raspberry lemonade is filled into a
bottle; dig this into cracked ice, and serve after three-quarters
of an hour, when little lumps of ice are forming in the lemonade.



                         76. Imperial.

   Place in a large, well-warmed pot, one ounce of cremor tar-
tari,the rind of three very thinly peeled lemons, one and a half
pounds of sugar; pour over it two and a half quarts of boiling
water, cover the pot well, and let it stand an hour in a temper-
ate place; stir now and then; put it on ice, and decant    it   very
carefully.
                         MIXED DRINKS.                           141



                   77. Bmletr Cemonaire.

    Put the rind of two thinly peeled lemons in a tea-pot; then
remove the white skin of the fruit, cut them into very thin
slices, remove the seeds; put the slices likewise in the pot, and
add one pint of boiling water; cover the pot well and let it soak
for about ten minutes; drink     it   hot after sweetening with sugar
to taste.
    (This lemonade can be very warmly recommended in cases
of cold, before going to bed.)


                  78.    Cemcmak
    Half an ounce of carbonate of magnesia is ground in one
pint of water; fill the milky fluid into a glass bottle, add half an
ounce of crystallized citric acid, and close the bottle air-tight.
After twelve hours filter the fluid into another bottle, in which
you first place one-fourth ounce of citric acid and two ounces of
sugar syrup; fill the bottle up with fresh water; cork well; fasten
the cork with twine, and shake in order to mix the syrup with
the water, and to dissolve the citric acid, which then sets free
the carbonic acid in the carbonate of magnesia; which acid
makes the lemonade sparkle.

                   79.      range Cemonafte.
   Take one quart of cold water, the juice of three oranges; rub
the peel of them slightly on sugar, add a glass of Rhine wine,
and sweeten at your discretion.


                    SO.      range Sherbet.
   Six ripe, sweet oranges are peeled four of them cut in pieces
                                         ;




and freed from their white skin and seeds, the other two well
squeezed.
   Stir this with one-fourth     pound of sugar over a slow fire to
boiling; let it get cool, thin with fresh water, and add the orange
pieces, some drops of orange-flower essence, and a few lumps
of ice.
142                           MIXED DRINKS.

                  81.    Surkisl)    range Sorbet.
    Peel five or six sweet oranges very carefully, divide them into
pieces, cut each piece again in two, remove the seeds and the
thin skin; put all in a tureen, then place one-fourth pound of
powdered sugar and the juice of two oranges in an enameled
pot; stir over a slow fire until it begins to boil; take it from the
fire,let it get cool, pour it into the tureen, add one quart of
cold water, a few drops of orange-flower essence, a few lumps of
ice, stir well   and serve.

                          82. $ear Sherbet.
   One or two pounds of dried pears are washed, cut in quarters,
freed from seeds and pips, infused in one and a half quarts of
boiling water in a well-covered tureen over night; the following
day add some sugar, stick cinnamon and lemon-peel; boil until
the pears are soft, take them out, strain after cooling, add the
pears and some lumps of ice, and serve.
   (In the same way it may be prepared from fresh pears.)


                         83. JJerman   Stjevbtt.

    One pound of ripe, fresh strawberries are mashed in a tureen
with a wooden spoon; add a lemon cut in pieces without the
seeds, and ateaspoonful of orange-flower water; pour over it one
and a fourth quarts of fresh water, let it stand covered three
hours.
    Strain through canton flannel, press the fruit hard to make
them yield as much juice as possible, add one pound of lump-
sugar, stir until the sugar is dissolved, put on ice, and serve.


                    84. IJomcgranate     Sljerbet.

    A few ripe pomegranates are       cut in pieces; leave some
aside, press the rest through a cloth and boil the juice with the
same quantity of water and one-fourth pound of sugar, while
continually stirring; boil it to a thick syrup.
   After it is cool pour it into a tureen, add some fresh water, a
few drops of orange-flower water, a few lumps of ice and the
fruits you left aside.
                        MIXED DRINKS.                             143



               85. Surki0I) liaiain
   Boil one  pound of fine raisins slowly in one pint of water,
                                                  and boil this
until they look like the fresh fruit; filter the fluid,
with one-half pound of sugar to a thick syrup; skim well; let it
get cool; pour into a glass bowl; diminish too great a sweetness
by adding cold water; put the boiled raisins in, a few drops of
orange-flower extract, a few lumps of ice, and serve the sherbet
in glasses.

                  86. Haspbm*2 Cemonabe.

   Press any quantity of fresh raspberries; add to one quart of
juice two quarts of fresh water, the juice of a lemon, and half a
pound of powdered sugar; strain, and serve in glasses; or you
may bottle it, to keep it for a short while.

                    87. Rljtibarb Sherbet.

   Boil as much cut rhubarb as is required for filling half a pint
in one quart of   water with four ounces of sugar, on which the
rind of a small    lemon has been rubbed off, for half an hour;
strain the water, let the sherbet get cold, add some lumps of ice,
and serve this very refreshing drink in glasses.


                  88.   Ho0-r         Cemoncrtre.

    Very ripe rose-hips are gathered in the latter part of fall, after
the first frost; remove the pits, and let the hips dry in the open
air in the sun; for each pint of the dried fruit take two quarts
of water; boil both together for half an hour; filter through
canton flannel, sweeten to taste with sugar, and serve.


                     89. lUine Cemonatoe.

    Rub the rind of one and a half lemons on one and a half
pounds of loaf-sugar; put it in one quart of cold water and
one quart of Rhine wine; add the juice of three lemons; mix
well, if desired, with some cracked ice, and serve.
144                        MIXED DRINKS.


                       00. tUtne Sherbet.

   Very   ripe   raspberries,   strawberries,   cherries,   apricots   or
peaches, are   mashed and infused with water for a few hours;
press through a clean cloth; mix the juice with two bottles of
white wine, the juice of two lemons, and sugar to taste place    ;



it on ice; after cooling, serve.




                     91.    Cataroba Cobbler.
   A large, long glass,
                   a squirt of Seltzer,
                   a barspoonful of sugar; mix this well;
                   a wineglassful of Catawba wine; mix this;
                   fill
                        your glass with shaved ice to the top,
                   i dash of port wine.

    Ornament with fruits in season.
    If you like, put a spoonful of ice-cream on the top, to make

it attractive; serve with a straw and a spoon.




                   92. Champagne Cobbler.
   A delicate wineglass,
                   a small lump of sugar,
                   fill
                        your glass with shaved ice,
                   fill the intervals with champagne.

   Stir this in a slow manner; add a little vanilla or strawberry
ice-cream, with a nice berry in season, and serve with a straw
and a spoon. You may add a little maraschino.

                      93. Sljerrg Cobbler.
   A fine, large glass,
                   a spoonful of sugar,
                   i dash of mineral water; mix this;

                   a glass of sherry wine; mix this;
               fill
                    your glass with fine ice,
               a dash of port wine.
   Ornament with fruits in season, and ice-cream, and serve with
a straw and spoon.
                             MIXED DRINKS.                             145



                          94. filaret Cobbler.
   A large, fine glass,
                   a squirt of Seltzer,
                   a spoonful of sugar; mix this;
                   a glass of claret; stir this well;
                   fill
                          your glass with fine ice.
   Ornament with fruits and ice-cream, and serve with a straw
and spoon.
   You may add a dash of Jamaica rum before ornamenting.
   (These recipes will do for any cobbler you want.)


                          95.   Pain        in Ji?j.

   A large mixing-glass,
                   the juice of half a lemon or lime,
                    l
                   /2     spoonful of sugar,
                           glassful of fine ice,
                a drink of Old Tom or Holland gin.
   Shake this exceedingly well; strain into a fizz glass;       fill   the
balance with Seltzer, and see that your guest drinks it at once.

                             96. Sitoer
   It is made in the same way as a plain gin fizz,      only begin with
the white of an egg in the bottom.

                             97. (Bolten       Jtjj.
   It is made the same way as the silver fizz, only begin with the

yolk of the egg.
                             98. Hogal        Jijj.
   It is   made the same way as the silver fizz, only begin with
the whole of an egg.


                    99.          ranlr   Hojwl Jijj.
   It is made the same way as the royal fizz, only add a little or-

ange-juice, a dash of maraschino and a dash of parfait amour or
creme de roses.
146                     MIXED DRINKS.


                      100. Imperial         Jijj.


    This drink may be prepared, although it is made essentially
the same way as the grand royal fizz, out of almost any kind of
liquor such as gin, whiskey or brandy; add, instead of Seltzer
or mineral water, champagne. This drink is intended for a com-
pany of from three to six persons.


                      101.    Cream

   This is made the same way as other fizzes, only put a small
portion of cream in your glass before shaking; then put in the
Seltzer; use a glass a little larger.



                        109. iKolet     Ji.

   The juice of half a lemon and half a lime,
                  a little sugar in the bottom of a glass,
                  % glassful of fine ice,
                  1 drink of Old  Tom gin,
                  2 dashes of genuine raspberry syrup,
                  a pony of cream.
    Shake it up quickly, strain into a fizz glass, add a little Selt
zer, and serve.
    You may use Holland gin instead of Old Tom.


                   103. Sitting Bull          Jijj.


   A glass of cracked ice,
                 the juice of a large lemon,
                 a spoonful of fine sugar,
                 Ys drink of Santa Cruz rum,
                 2
                 /2, drink of whiskey.

   Shake to the freezing-point, strain into a fizz glass and      fill

the balance with Seltzer.
                             MIXED DRINKS.                         147



                       104.     2lb0m%
                            (AMERICAN STYLE.)
   A mixing-glass with fine ice,
                  i    dash of gum,
                  1    Yz   ponies of absinthe.
   Shake this exceedingly well, strain into a cocktail glass, and
serve.

               105. 2tb0in% d             la |)ari0ienne.

   A medium-sized glass,
                  a drink of absinthe in the bottom.
   Fill your glass with cold water, by letting it drip into the glass

very slowly.

                  106. !3lb0tn%           am Dim*
   A tumbler % full of ice,
                  2 dashes of gum,
                  i
                       pony of absinthe,
                   i   dash of maraschino.
   Shake it heartily;        freeze to the coldest degree; strain into a
cocktail glass;   drop a little creme de roses in the centre, and
serve.

                  107.        &l)e   <Bn*eat   2UnniraL

                                 (FOR TWO.)
   A mixing-tumbler,
                  the juice of a peeled orange,
                  4 dashes of gum,
                   %  glass of fine ice,
                   2 dashes of curagao,
                   1    drink of brandy,
                   y drink of Jamaica rum,
                       z

                   2 dashes of creme de cocoa,
                   i    dash of anisette,
                   i    dash of creme de roses.
    Mix this very well; strain into fancy glasses, and serve.
148                       MIXED DRINKS.


                          108.
  A large barglass,
                 the juice of ]/z lemon,
                 i
                     barspoonful of sugar,
                 1   dash of Seltzer; mix this well;
                    your glass
                 fill              %
                                  with fine ice,
                 2 dashes of curagao,
                 i   drink of brandy.
  Stir well, strain, and serve.




                          109.
  A whiskey-glass,
                 2 lumps of ice,

                 % of vino vermouth,
                 Y$ of Fernet branca,
                 i   slice of orange.
  This drink is much en vogue among southern Europeans.



                        110.   tile Blo00om.
  A glass with ice,
                 4 dashes of gum,
                 a small drink of apple-jack,
                 2 dashes of creme de roses.
  Freeze this thoroughly; strain, and serve.



                        111.   2lpre0 Sotrper.

                               (FOR TWO.)

  A mixing-glass filled with shaved ice,
                 2 dashes of gum,
                 i
                     pony of creme de menthe,
                 ]4.  pony of maraschino,
                 i   small drink of brandy.
  Stir this, strain and serve.
                              MIXED DRINKS.                     149


                            112. 2tocmt Souper.

     A whiskey-tumbler with 2 lumps of ice,
                     2 drops of gum,
                     i
                         pony of absinthe.
   Let it stand for about two minutes. Fill your glass up with
water slowly, by letting the water drip; remove the ice, and serve.


                         113. 2lt>ant Dejeuner.

     A large glass with a good portion of imported Seltzer,
                     a spoonful of sugar; mix this;
                     a glass of Moselle wine; mix this;
                    up with ice,
                     fill

                   dash of port wine.
                     i

     Ornament the top with fruits in season.

                     114. C'2lrc      ire
                                            (triomplje.

      Divide a pint of dry champagne frappe in 2 glasses,
                     i
                         lump of sugar in each with a spoon,
                     i
                         pony of cognac to each glass.
      Stir up well before serving.


                              115.   #gg Beer.
      Beat a whole egg with a spoonful of sugar in a glass, and fill
it   up with beer.
                     116.     % |Jan0t3 3810000m.
                                 (FOR TWO.)
      A large tumbler with some fine ice,
                     6 dashes of gum,
                     X glass of Russian kiimmel,
                     X glass of absinthe,
                     X glass of vino vermouth,
                     X glass of maraschino,
                   the whites of two eggs.
      Shake to the coldest point; strain into 2 fancy glasses, and
serve.
I5O                          MIXED DRINKS.


                       117.       e       Bon Botre.
                                (FOR FOUR.)
   A large glass with ice,
                  l
                 /i        of maraschino,
                  Y-LQ of anisette,

                 /io of creme de roses,
                 YIQ of creme de vanille,
                  /ro of parfait amour,
                  l



                  y of creme de the (tea),
                      io

                 Ko of celestine,
                 /IQ of creme de cocoa,
                  I


                  l
                 /io of fine old brandy,
                 y^        of Benedictine.
   Shake well, strain, and serve in fancy glasses.


                           118. Brahmapootra.


   An egg, and a spoonful of sugar in a glass,
                 a little lemon-juice; fill your glass with ice;
                  i
                      pony of brandy,
                  idash of creme de roses,
                 i dash of creme de mocha,

                 i dash of creme de vanille,

                 a little cream.
   Shake well, strain, and serve.


                       119.     Brantm         ru0ta.
   A mixing-glass,
                 a little sugar,
                 a little plain water, enough to dissolve it;
                 fill the
                          glass % full of ice,
                 stir this well       ;



                 a drink of brandy; mix again.
   Pare a round, clean lemon; place this on the inside of a wine-
glass; strain your mixture into it, and serve.
                           MIXED DRINKS.                             151



                         120.
   A goblet with fine ice,
                  2 dashes of curagao,
                  2 dashes of parfait amour,
                  i    dash of maraschino,
                  YZ    dash of peppermint cordial,
                  i YI
                         ponies of brandy.
   Mix well, and serve.

                       121.        Braubg totop.
   A mixing-glass,
                  half a spoonful of sugar,
                  a little water, enough to dissolve the sugar,
                  % full of ice,
                  i    drink of brandy.
   Stir this very well; strain into a cocktail glass; grate a little

nutmeg on top.
   (Any other toddy may be prepared the same way.)

                 122.           l)e   Bribge Bracer.
   A large glass with fine ice,
                  beat a fresh egg,
                  1
                       barspoonful of powdered sugar,
                  2 dashes of bitters,
                   i
                     pony of brandy.
    Mix this, add a bottle of imported ginger ale; stir thoroughly,
strain, and serve.


               123.       ffilje
                                    Broker'0   fflljcmgljt.

   The white of an egg in a mixing-glass,
                 the juice of a lime,
                 a little fine sugar,
                 some fine ice,
                  % drink of whiskey,
                  Y$   drink of Santa Cruz rum.
   Shake this thoroughly well; strain into a fancy glass;     fill   up
with milk, while you stir it with a spoon, and serve.
152                       MIXED DRINKS.


                  124.     %       Hn Bouquet.

                              (FOR TWO.)
   A goblet with fine ice,
                  3 dashes of gum,
                  2 ponies of absinthe,
                  2 ponies of benedictine,
                  2 dashes of creme de roses,
                  i   dash of anisette,
                  the whites of two eggs.
   Shake very well, strain, and serve.


                          125. Calia Cilg.

                                (FOR TWO.)

   In a mixing-glass put the yolks of 2 fresh eggs,
                  a spoonful of sugar,
                  Yz glassful of fine ice,
                  \Yz ponies of brandy,
                  i   y
                    2 ponies of Jamaica rum,

                  1   dash of maraschino,
                 2 ponies of cream,
                a few drops of creme de rooes;
                 shake this well.
   Whip  the whites  of the eggs into a snowy foam with a little

sugar.  Pour out your drink into two glasses, and crown the
whole with the foam.


                       126. Claret        |)uncl).

   A large, thin glass,
                 the juice of half a lemon,
                  a squirt of Seltzer,
                  a spoonful of sugar; mix well;
                  a glass of claret; mix this again.
   Fill your glass with fine ice to the top; put some ice-cream
on top; ornament with orange and berries in season.
                           MIXED DRINKS.                      153


                       127. Cljocolak       |)uncl).
   A glass with an egg in the bottom,
                   a spoonful of sugar,
                   */$   of brandy,
                   l
                   /2>   of port wine,
                   idash of creme de cocoa,
                   1
                    pony of cream.
   Fill your glass with ice; shake well; strain, and serve.



                          128. Claret Cup.
   A good sized bowl,
                % pony of maraschino,
                   YZ pony of Curasao,
                   Yz pony of benedictine,
                   Yz pony of chartreuse (yellow),
                   the juice of 6 limes,
                   2 bottles of claret,
                   i bottle of Rhine wine or Moselle,

                   a bottle of Apollinaris,
                   Yz    pound of sugar,
                  a little rind of a cucumber,
                  a little orange and pineapple sliced,
                  a few sprigs of mint.
   Stir this very well; add a little coarse ice, and serve.



             129.          t)e   Cosmopolitan Cooler.
   A long glass,
                   the juice of 2 limes,
                   a few dashes of Seltzer,
                   a spoonful of powdered sugar,
                   mix this well;
                   a drink of Santa Cruz rum,
                   then fill the glass with fine ice,
                   stir all   ingredients well;
                 a dash of Jamaica rum.
    Crown it with vanilla ice-cream and ornament with berries
lightly powdered with sugar; serve with a straw.
154                       MIXED DRINKS.


                       130. Champagne (Hup.

   It is made like a claret cup,   only use champagne instead of
claret.


                       131.   Columbus   JjJuncI).


   The juice of half an orange and the juice of half a lemon in
the bottom of the glass; dissolve this with a spoonful of sugar
and a dash of mineral water,
                   1
                     glass of Chianti,
                   2 dashes of Jamaica rum,
                   idash of maraschino,
                   dash of brandy.
                   I

   Mix this well, fill your glass with fine ice, add a dash of Ro-
soglio and ornament with fruits and ice-cream.



                       132. Coffee anb     Hum.

                (FOR COLD AND SORE THROAT.)

   Break an egg in a glass, beat it up well;
                   a spoonful of sugar,
                   a drink of old Jamaica rum.
   Mix this up well, pour in a cup of the best mocha or Java
coffee hot and finish with a piece of best butter. Best take
this drink right after rising.




                   133. Stye Correspondent.

   A pony glass,
                   Ys of creme de roses,
                   y$ of green chartreuse,
                  */$ of brandy.


   Light this for two minutes and serve.
                               MIXED DRINKS.                           155


                            134. (faster Crocus.
   A large mixing-tumbler,
                     a fresh egg in its bottom,
                     the juice of %. a lemon,
                     i
                         barspoonful of sugar,
               .     fill the tumbler with ice,
                     i   drink of Old Tom gin,
                    dash of maraschino,
                     i


                    dash of creme de vanille.
                     i

   Shake this thoroughly well; pour out into a thin glass and fill
the little vacant space with ginger ale.


                   135. Stye Southern <8ro00.
   A mixing-glass,
                     the juice of a lime,
                     a dash of mineral water,
                     a spoonful of sugar,
                     %  of St. Croix rum,
                     Y$ of brandy,
                     i     dash of curagao.
   Stir this well,   fill   your glass with fine ice, stir again and strain
into a sour glass.

                             136.    &l)t   Croum.
   A pony glass,
                     Ys of maraschino,
                     l
                     /2,    of green chartreuse,
                     l
                     /$ of benedictine,      each separate.


                         137, Curasao          |]uncl).
   A long, thin glass,
                     the juice of half a lemon,
                     4 dashes of gum,
                     Yz pony of brandy,
                     YZ pony of Jamaica rum,
                     YI     pony of curagao.
   Fill your glass with ice, stir well, ornament with           fruits and

ice-cream, serve with a spoon and straw.
156                          MIXED DRINKS.


        138.   "<&lje        tllorlbV fitovning EWtgljt.
   A large tumbler,
                 the juice of half a lemon,
                 the juice of half an orange,
                 a little fine sugar,
                 2 dashes of Russian kiimmel,
                 2 dashes of maraschino,
                     i Yz
                            ponies of absinthe.
   Fill your glass with fine ice, shake this well, strain, add some
Seltzer and serve.

                          139. Cables' Delight.
                                           -V 9



   A large, thin glass,
                 a spoonful of sugar,
                 a cup of cold coffee,
                 % of brandy,
                 X of Jamaica rum.
   Fill your glass with ice, stir well, ornament with ice-cream
and berries, and serve with spoon and a straw.


                            140. tlje EHtple*.
                                 (FOR TWO.)
   Break 2 eggs in a large glass,
                 2 barspoonfuls of powdered sugar,

                 % full of ice,
                 i    drink of sherry,
                 i    drink of port wine,
                 y pony of benedictine,
                      2

                 a small whiskey tumbler of cream.
   Shake extremely well and strain into two fine glasses.


        141.     eneral

   It is made as any egg-nogg,        only use cider instead of liquor,
and no milk.
                          MIXED DRINKS.                           157



                         142.

   A large mixing-glass,
                  a fresh egg in its bottom,
                  a tablespoonful of sugar,
                  a little fine ice,
                  ^3   of Santa Cruz rum,
                  % of brandy,
                  i   dash of maraschino or creme de vanille.
   Fill your glass with   milk; shake this exceedingly well, strain
into a large, thin glass, add the oil of a little lemon-peel on the
top, and serve.
   (This drink may be made of almost any kind of liquor that is
desired.)

                        143.

  The juice of Yz a lime in a glass,
                  a spoonful of sugar,
                  the white of an egg,
                  a little drink of Irish whiskey,
                  2 dashes of Tonic Phospate,

                  % full of ice.
  Shake, strain and fill balance with Seltzer.


                      144.      l)e
                                      Jmtnfoatkm.

                               (FOR TWO.)

  A large tumbler with 2 fresh eggs,
                  the juice of a lemon,
                  2 barspoonfuls of sugar,

                  /t glass of shaved ice,
                  l



                  2 dashes of calisaya,
                  2 drinks of Old      Tom gin,
                  1dash of absinthe,
                 2 dashes of vino vermouth.
  Shake for full 2 minutes; strain into a high glass;      fill   the
balance with carbonic water, and serve.
158                       MIXED DRINKS.


                              145. <ncotx

   A pony glass,
                   Y$ of maraschino,
                   l
                   /s of curagao,
                   l
                   /s of brandy;    each separate.
   Light it and serve.


                        146. Sljerrg lilUr.

  The yolk of an egg in a mixing-glass,
                   a spoonful of sugar,
                   a drink of sherry wine,
                   i dash of creme de roses,


                   % full of ice.
  Shake this well, and serve.


                       147.    e   Jin tm   Stecle.


                          (WILLIAM'S PRIDE.)

  A mixing-glass with the juice of half an orange,
                the juice oi % oi lemon,
                                       a.


                   Yz spoonful of sugar,
                   the yolk of an egg,
                   Yz pony of brandy,
                   Yz pony of benedictine,
                   YZ pony of maraschino,
                   i dash of curagao,
                   i dash of anisette,
                   i dash of
                             parfait amour,
                   i dash of
                              noyeau,
                   3 ponies of pure cream.
                               shake it extra well; strain into a
  Fill your glass with fine ice,

fancy glass; ornament the top with the white of an egg, that
you have beaten up to the form of frozen snow, and sweetened
with sugar; serve with a spoon.
                            MIXED DRINKS.                          159



                          148. Cafagette     J lip.
  Drop into a large glass a fresh egg,
                 i
                   barspoonful of powdered sugar,
                 1
                   pony of old Rye whiskey,
                   a dash of green chartreuse,
                   2 dashes of curagao,
                   2 ponies of cream,
                   a few lumps of ice.
  Shake this all well, and strain into a fancy glass.

                           149. Sljerrg Jlip.

                                (FOR TWO.)
  Into a large glass 2 eggs,
                   2 spoonfuls of sugar,

                   X  glass of fine ice,
                   2 glasses of sherry wine,
                   i   small glass of cream.
  Shake this exceedingly well, and serve.           You may add a dash
of maraschino.
                       150.
  A mixing-glass with ice,
                   the juice of a lime,
                   a spoonful of sugar,
                   a drink of brandy,
                   a dash of maraschino,
                   the white of an egg.
  Shake this well, strain and serve.


                 151. Jrappe a la                tnUatinw.

  2 dashes of   gum in the bottom of the glass,
                   fill
                          your glass with ice,
                   1
                     pony of absinthe,
                   YZ pony of vino vermouth,
                   2 dashes of anisette.
  Freeze this to the coldest point, and serve.
l6o                      MIXED DRINKS.


                      152.      l)


                              (FOR TWO.)
  A glass with ice,
                 6 dashes of gum,
                 X of Russian kiimmel,
                 X of brandy,
                 X of vino vermouth,
                 X of creme de cocoa,
                 i    dash of parfait amour,
                 the yolks of two eggs.
  Shake well, strain and serve.


                       153.     -fruit

  Into a mixing-tumbler the juice of half a lemon,
                 a little orange-juice,
                 1
                   barspoonful of sugar,
                 2 barspoonfuls of pineapple syrup,
                  i
                    pony of rich cream,
                  a drink of Santa Cruz rum.
  Pack your goblet with fine ice, and shake to the freezing-
point; strain into a fancy glass, and serve.


                     154. tUIjtskeg JFvappc.
  A large glass with ice,
                 2 dashes of gum,
                 a drink of whiskey.
  Shake for 2 minutes, and serve.


                         155.        l)e   Suirge.

  A mixing-glass % full of ice,
                 3 dashes of gum,
                 X of creme de menthe,
                 % of brandy.
  Shake to the freezing-point; strain, and serve      in a cocktail

glass.
                            MIXED DRINKS.                               l6l



                          156. porter JUp.

  A long, thin glass with an egg in the bottom,
                   a spoonful of sugar,
                   fill
                          your glass with porter,
                   stir very well.

  A little nutmeg on top, and the oil of a little lemon-peel.

                            157. 3U)c         em.
    A mixing-glass,
                   the juice of a lime,
                   a little pineapple syrup,
                   a spoonful of sugar; dissolve well;
                   Yz drink of Santa Cruz rum,
                   Yz drink of brandy.
    Mix this well, fill your glass with ice, and mix again; strain
into a fine glass; place a slice of lemon on the top, and grate a
little   cinnamon upon it.


                158.        emrine tUtyiakeg |)tmcl).

    A goblet filled with fine ice,
                   a dash of lemon-juice,
                    3 dashes of gum,
                    i   drink of whiskey.
   Then fill another goblet with fine ice, and put this on top of
the first; turn them upside down five or six times; hold them up
together as high as you can with both hands, and let the liquid
drip down into a tall, fancy glass; i dash of Jamaica rum on the
top, and you will have an impressive and pleasant drink.
    (Other liquors may be turned into punches the same way.)


                            159. (Sin     fluff.

    A large glass with a drink of gin;      fill
                                                   your glass half with milk
and the balance with Seltzer, while you stir it.
162                          MIXED DRINKS.


                         160.         Umore   JJuncI).

   The juice of a lime in a fine, tall glass,
                   the juice of half an orange,
                 a small spoonful of sugar, mix this;
                 fill the glass with cracked ice,

                    dash of maraschino,
                    dash of curagao,
                    dash of green chartreuse,
                    dash of benedictine,
                    drink of Irish whiskey.
   Stir well, and ornament with vanilla ice-cream and fruits in
season.
                161.            l)e    lorious Jourtl).

   A glass with the juice of a lime,
                   4 dashes of gum,
                   % full of ice,
                   i     drink of brandy,
                   1     dash of Jamaica rum,
                a large tablespoonful of ice-cream.
   Shake this exceedingly well, strain into a fancy glass, and
serve.
                       162. Cannibal jjamltn.
   A mixing-tumbler,
                   the juice of half a lemon,
                   the juice of half an orange,
                   fill it   with cracked ice,
                   % of peach brandy,
                   /$ of old Jamaica rum,
                   l



                   2 tablespoonfuls of honey.
   Shake to the freezing-point, and strain into a fancy glass.

                         163. djappg filament.
   A pony glass,
                   */s   of creme de roses,
                   Ys of maraschino,
                   Ys of benedictine,
                   i
                       drop of bitters in the centre.
                          MIXED DRINKS.                        163


                      164. djearfs Content.
                              (FOR TWO.)
   A mixing-glass with % of fine ice,
                  i
                    pony of brandy,
                  i
                    pony of benedictine,
                  i
                    pony of maraschino,
                  i
                    pony of parfait amour.
   Shake this thoroughly; strain into fine wineglasses; beat up
the white of an egg to the form of frozen snow with a little sugar;
put this on top of your drink; squeeze a little lemon-peel on it,
and serve with a spoon.

                         165.

   A whiskey glass with 2 dashes of gum,
                  i   dash of bitters,
                  Ys of brandy,
                  Y$ of port wine,
                  a little red pepper.
   Stir this well, and serve.


                      166. tt)e Invitation.
                              (FOR TWO.)
   A glass with 2 dashes of gum,
                 some fine ice,
                  i   small drink of sherry wine,
                  1   small drink of vino vermouth,
                 2 dashes of absinthe.
   Freeze this to the coldest point; strain into 2 fancy glasses,
and serve.
             167. Jamaica         Hum a la Creole.
   The juice of half a lime,
                 a dash of Seltzer,
                 i
                   spoonful of sugar; dissolve this;
                 a drink of Jamaica rum; mix this;
               fill
                    your glass with ice,
               a dash of port wine.
   Ornament with fruits and ice-cream.
164                         MIXED DRINKS.


                           168. 3ol)n Collins.

   A large glass with the juice of half a lemon,
                    a spoonful of sugar,
                    a full drink of Holland gin.
   Mix this well; add two or three lumps of ice;          fill
                                                                 your glass
up with Seltzer, while you stir.

                         169. Stye Kaleidoscope.

   A mixing-glass with some cracked ice,
                    i
                         pony of absinthe,
                    i
                         pony of vino vermouth,
                    3 dashes of maraschino,
                    3 dashes of benedictine,
                    3 dashes of curagao,
                3 dashes of creme de cocoa.
   Shake to the freezing-point; strain into a fine wineglass, and
serve.

                    170. &l)e Knickerbocker.
   The juice of half a lime or lemon in a glass,
                    3 dashes of raspberry syrup,
                    i
                         wineglassful of Jamaica rum,
                    i    dash of curagao,
                    a little cracked ice.
  Stir this well; strain, and serve in a fancy glass.

                                       1

            171.         &f)e Cables       C&reat Jauorite.

   A large glass,
                    a squirt of Seltzer,
                    a spoonful of fine sugar,
                    fill a
                           wineglass half full with sherry and
                    the other half with port wine,
                     i   dash of brandy;
                    mix this well.
   Fill your glass       with shaved   ice;   ornament with orange and
pineapple, and top it off with ice-cream; serve with a spoon.
                              MIXED DRINKS.                      165



                            172. Cent be     floale.

                                 (FOR LADIES.)
   Beat the yolk of an egg with 2 tablespoonfuls of powdered
sugar to foam,
                 a pony of rum, or kirschwasser, etc.
   Stir continually while filling the glass with hot milk, and
serve.

                    173. 31 JHaU)en'0 fu00.

                    / of maraschino in a sherry glass,
                    l
                        s

                    /$ of creme de roses,
                    l



                    /s of curagao (white),
                    l


                    l
                    /s of chartreuse (yellow),
                    y5 of benedictine, each separate.




               174.          8tlje   jSlanijattan Cooler.
   A large glass,
                    the juice of a lime,
                    a spoonful of sugar; mix this well;
                    3 or 4 lumps of ice,
                    i
                        glass of claret,
                    i   dash of Santa Cruz rum,
                    1   bottle of plain soda.
   Mix this and serve with a little fruit.


                     175. Slje Ulagor.
               (AN IMITATION OF A MINT JULEP.)
   A large glass with an egg in the bottom,
                    a barspoonful of sugar,
                    2 dashes of absinthe,

                    y$ of vino vermouth,

                    % of kiimmel,
                    2 gills of cream.
    Fill your glass with ice; freeze to the lowest point; strain into
a tall glass; squeeze a little lemon-peel on it.
166                         MIXED DRINKS.


                     176.      Dnr Jfltlk     fluncl).

    A large glass,
                     % of Santa Cruz rum,
                     y$ of brandy,
                     i   dash of creme de vanille,
                     i   spoonful of sugar,
                     a little fine ice.
    Fill your glass with milk, shake thoroughly, strain and serve,
    Add a little nutmeg, if you wish, or squeeze a little lemon-peel
on it.

                 177. Strain^             Mint JtoUp.

    Put the leaves of two sprigs of mint in a mixing-glass with a
spoonful of sugar and a little water to dissolve it.
   With a squeezing-stick squeeze out the extract of the leaves,
                 i drink of
                             brandy.
    Fill your glass with ice; stir well, strain into a long cham-

pagne glass, add a dash of Jamaica rum on the top carefully;
place a little sprig of mint on the side of the glass, sprinkle a
little sugar on the leaves, and serve.

    (You may use other liquors instead of brandy.)



                           178.   Iflint


   Use a large, long glass; select three long sprigs of luxuriant
mint and let the stems rest on the bottom of the glass. Then
take two sprigs of mint, strip them and put the leaves in a mix-
ing-glass; i spoonful of sugar, i squirt of Seltzer; crush out the
extract of the leaves with a squeezing-stick; i drink of brandy;
stir this and strain into your original glass; fill it with ice and

stir;a dash of Jamaica rum on top, ornament the brim of the
glass with fruits   and the centre with ice-cream and berries.
Sprinkle a little sugar over your leaves and serve with a straw.
    You may put a little rosebud on your drink,
                              MIXED DRINKS.                    167



                179.          fclje   Nt ])lu0 Ultra.
   A sherry glass,
                  }i of creme de roses,
                  }i of green chartreuse,
                  l
                  /i of benedictine,
                  X  of brandy.
   Set fire to the brandy, let burn for two m'mutes, and serve.


                180.           l)e    JHormng      EMigljt.
   In a mixing-glass put the white of an egg,
                  the juice of a lime,
                  the juice of half an orange,
                  fill
                            your glass with ice,
                  Yt pony of absinthe,
                  i
                         pony of whiskey,
                  Yt pony of sherry wine,
                  1
                         spoonful of sugar,
                  2 dashes of calisaya.
   Shake this well; strain into a fancy glass and fill the balance
with seltzer.
                              181.     Sty*   Nap.
   A cocktail glass filled with ice,
                     i/}   of kiimmel,
                     l
                  /z of green chartreuse,
                  Y$ of brandy.

   Drop a dash of creme de roses on top, which will go to the
bottom, and serve.

                182. HXtw <S)rkan0                  JJuncI).

   A thin glass with the juice of half a lemon,
                  i
                           spoonful of sugar; mix this;
                  fill      with fine ice,
                  % of St. Julien,
                  X of Jamaica rum,
                   dash of brandy.
                     i

                      ornament with fruits in season and a little
   Stir this very well;
ice-cream on the top, and serve with a straw.
168                       MIXED DRINKS.


                         183.       l)e     pera.

                              (FOR TWO.)
   Break two eggs in the bottom of a mixing-glass,
                 2 barspoonfuls of powdered sugar,
                 2 ponies of fine brandy,
                 fill
                        your glass with cracked ice.
   Shake the mixture thoroughly.
   A  pint bottle of champagne as cold as possible is poured out
into two ice-cold glasses with room enough for your first mixture,
which is to be strained into the cold champagne very slowly;
care must be taken not to have the mixture overflow.


               184.         range Counttj           JJrfte.

   A goblet with the juice of a lime,
                 a squirt of Seltzer,
                  a spoonful of sugar; dissolve this well;
                  i drink of
                             apple-jack.
   Fill your glass with ice to the top and stir.    Add a dash of
dark-colored brandy; ornament with fruits and serve with a straw.


              185.         range          ountu Jhwd).

   A mixing-glass with a fresh egg in the bottom,
                 the juice of a lemon,
                 i
                   barspoonful of powdered sugar,
                 a glass of fine apple cider,
                 fill   with ice.
   Shake thoroughly, strain, and fill up with Seltzer.


                        186. flalote       Stickler.

                              (FOR COLD.)
   A little lemon-juice in a tumbler with some genuine New
Orleans molasses,
                 a drink of old Jamaica rum.
   Stir exceedingly well, and serve.
                             MIXED DRINKS.                   169



             187.           l)e    "Ntm 8ork
                                    (FOR TWO.)

   A large mixing-glass with the yolks of two eggs in the bottom,
                 the juice of an orange,
                 a little pineapple juice,
                 i
                         barspoonful of sugar,
                 i       drink of fine brandy,
                 1
                         pony of kirschwasser,
                  YZ pony of curagao,
                 /2 pony of maraschino,
                     l




                 /t pony of creme de roses,
                  l



                 2 dashes of benedictine,
                 2 dashes of creme de cocoa.
   Fill your glass  with fine ice; a large claret glass with pure
cream; shake this exceedingly well; strain into two fancy glasses
so as to fill them.  Beat up the white of one egg to the form of
frozen snow; sweeten this well with sugar; put this on the top of
your drinks; squeeze a little lemon-peel on each, and serve with
a spoon. This is intended for an evening drink, only on special
occasions.

                         188.

   A cocktail glass with fine ice,
                 % of creme de menthe,
                 YS of brandy.
   Drop a little bitters in the centre and put a piece of lemon-
peel on the brim of the glass; serve.



                  189.            |)cacl)   aitb   Hjoneg.

   A whiskey tumbler,
                 the juice of half a lime or lemon,
                 a good part of real honey,
                 a drink of peach brandy.
   Stir very well before serving.

   (Molasses may be used; also Jamaica rum.)
I/O                             MIXED DRINKS.


                                 190.    fliafltt.

                 (A VARIATION OF THE OLD FLOSTER.)
   A barspoonful of sugar in a large glass,
                        a bottle of plain soda,
                        2 or 3 lumps of ice,
                        a drink of sherry,
                        a dash of creme de cocoa.
   Mix this thoroughly well, and serve.
   This is a drink specially delicious when you are thirsty.

                             191. pineapple jhtlqj.

   A large glass, with a little pineapple-juice,
                        the juice of one-fourth of an orange,
                        2 dashes of raspberry syrup,
                        2 dashes of maraschino,
                        Yz   pony of old gin,
                       glass of champagne or sparkling wine.
                        1

   Fill   your   glass with ice, stir this very well, ornament with
fruits and ice-cream,         and serve with a straw.

                            192. pncapple          Jhtiul).
   A large glass,
                        YZ wineglassful of pineapple-juice,
                        the juice of half an orange,
                        2 dashes of raspberry syrup,
                        a little sugar,
                        i   dash of maraschino,
                        /2 drink of
                        l
                                      Tomgin,
                        Yz drink of Moselle wine.
   Stir well;    fill   your glass with     ice;   ornament with pineapple
and berries, and serve with a straw.                            1


                               193. <l)e floem.
   A pony glass,
                        Y$ of creme de roses,
                        Y$ of curagao,
                        Y$ of benedictine,    each separate.
                               MIXED DRINKS.                             I/I



                        194. Jporter Scmgaree.
   A long, thin glass,
                    a spoonful of sugar,
                    fill
                         your glass with porter.
   Stir very well, add a little nutmeg and squeeze a little lemon-

peel on top.
                195. port-ttHnc                  Sangam.
   A mixing-glass with fine ice,
                    3 dashes of gum,
                    i
                        glass of port wine.
   Stir this very well, strain       into a fine, tall glass, cut a few
slices of a peeled lemon,        drop them      in the drink, grate   a little
nutmeg on the top and present.
   (Other sangarees may be prepared the same way.)

                           196.       Stye   JJrimnwe.
   A long, thin glass,
                    the juice of half an orange,
                    ^ spoonful of sugar,
                    i   dash of mineral water,
                    I   dash of parfait amour,
                    % of sherry wine,
                    y$ of port wine.
   Mix this well;       fill
                               your glass with ice; ornament with       fruits
and ice-cream.


                               197.      l)e   |Jra0.
   The white of an egg in the bottom of a glass,
                    3 dashes of lemon-juice,
                    i
                         spoonful of sugar,
                    % of whiskey,
                    dash of St. Croix rum,
                    i


                    dash of calisaya,
                    i

                  i dash of absinthe.


   Fill your glass with ice, shake well, strain into a fizz-glass,
and fill the balance with Seltzer.
                            MIXED DRINKS.


                     198.    |hm0& T
   Fill a sherry glass,

                  Ys of maraschino,
                  the yolk of one fresh egg,
                   /$ of creme de roses,
                     l




                  Yz of brandy,    each separate.


                         199. &l)e JJromenaie.

   An egg in the bottom of the glass,
                  the glass two-thirds full of fine ice,
                  a barspoonful of fine sugar,
                  % pony of brandy,
                  }/$    pony of creme de cocoa,
                  Yz pony of port wine,
                  2 ponies of cream,
   Shake this very well, and strain into a fancy glass.

                          200. JJou00e Cafe.
   A sherry glass,
                  Yd of creme de roses, or raspberry syrup,
                  Y(>of maraschino,
                  Ye of curagao,
                  */(>
                       of benedictine,
                  Yd of chartreuse (green),
                  Ye of brandy, each separate.
   You may drop in a little bitters on the top, and set fire to
the brandy.   While burning, squeeze a little orange-peel on it,
which will produce a fine pyrotechnical effect.)

           201.      aijc   "tDorlbV       $01100* Cafe.

                  % of maraschino,
                  }i of creme de roses,
                  X of benedictine,
                  X of brandy, each separate.
   A drop of bitters in the centre; set fire to the brandy, and
serve.
                             MIXED DRINKS.                       1/3



                           202. Ca     Jlremtere.

                                 (FOR TWO.)

   Place the leaves of four sprigs of mint and one-half spoonful
of sugar in a large tumbler,
                  2 dashes of mineral water.

   Squeeze out the extract, to give it a dark green tincture.
Fillyour tumbler two -thirds full of chopped ice; add two
small drinks of     Tom gin; stir to a very cold degree; strain into
two cocktail glasses; place a small sprig of mint in each, allow-
ing the stem to rest on the bottom; sprinkle a little sugar on the
leaves; add a little champagne, and serve.




                    203.      aije Ctfc-flrolongor.


       A large glass, with a fresh egg,
                     i
                         spoonful of fine sugar,
                     % full of fine ice,
                     % of sherry wine,
                     ]/$   of port wine,
                     1 dash of creme de roses,
                     2 ponies of cream.
       Shake this exceedingly well, strain into a large glass, and
serve.



                   204.        lc    >umt of

       A glass, with a dash of chartreuse in the bottom,
                     % of port wine,
                     y$ of Madeira,
                     i dash of brandy,
                     1 dash of creme de roses,
                     2 dashes of gum.
       Fill your glass with ice; mix well; strain, and serve in a cut

glass.
174                         MIXED DRINKS.


                 205.       Stye    <umt of Sljeba.
                                  (FOR TWO.)

     A large glass, with the yolks of two eggs,
                   2 barspoonfuls of sugar,
                   i dash of vino vermouth,
                   1 dash of port wine,
                   2 dashes of sherry,
                   1 YT.   drinks of brandy,
                   2 dashes of maraschino,
                 i dash of
                           curagao.
        your glass with ice; shake well, strain into two long,
     Fill
thin glasses; crown them with the whites of the two eggs beaten
to a hard consistency, and sprinkle colored sugar on the top
of   it.


                         206.      Stye     lainbotD.
     A sherry glass,
                   Yi of maraschino,
                   Yi of creme de menthe,
                   Yi of apricotine,
                   YJ of curagao,
                   YJ of yellow chartreuse,
                   YJ of green chartreuse,
                   Y? of brandy, each separate.
     Set fire to the brandy, and serve.



                           207.    ffilje
                                            Heluocr.

     The white of an egg in the bottom of a glass,
                   the juice of half a lemon,
                   a barspoonful of sugar,
                   % glass of fine ice,
                   % of Jamaica rum,
                   YJ>   of port wine.
     Shake this for a full minute; strain into a fancy glass, and
serve.
                          MIXED DRINKS.                      175



                      208.    Stye   Reminder.

   A goblet, with
                 i   dash of maraschino,
                 i   dash of creme de roses,
                      glass of fine ice,
                 Yz of sherry,
                 Yz of port wine,
                 Yz of vino vermouth.
   Mix this thoroughly; strain into a fancy glass, and serve.



                      209. Roman

   A large, thin glass,
                 the juice of an orange,
                 the juice of half a lime or lemon in the bottom,
                 a spoonful of sugar,
                 a squirt of mineral water,
                 dissolve this well;
                 Yz pony of curagao,
                 Yz pony of maraschino,
                 i
                      pony of brandy,
                 1    dash of Jamaica rum.
   Mix this thoroughly well; fill your glass with fine ice; orna-
ment the brim with oranges and pineapple, and the centre with
ice-cream and berries.     Serve with a spoon and a straw.



                           210. Retime.

   A mixing-glass, with ice,
                 2 dashes of gum,
                 i
                   pony of brandy,
                 Yz pony of maraschino,
                 Yz pony of curagao,
                 Yz glass of vanilla ice-cream.
   Shake this very well; strain and serve.
176                      MIXED DRINKS.


                       211.   $\)t   llequkm.

   In a mixing-glass an egg,
                 a spoonful of powdered sugar,
                      pony of brandy,
                    dash of sherry,
                    dash of port wine,
                    dash of maraschino,
                    pony of cream.
   Fill your glass with ice, shake it and strain into a high cham-

pagne glass.

                        212. Sans Sotm.

                              (FOR TWO.)

   A large glass, with the juice of a lime or lemon,
                 a spoonful of sugar,
                 the yolks of two eggs,
                 fill your glass two-thirds full of ice,

                 2 ponies of absinthe,
                 i
                      pony of maraschino,
                                                       *
                 i
                      pony of vermouth,
                 i    dash of white curagao.
   Shake   this exceedingly well;       strain   into two fancy wine-
glasses, beat up the white of one egg to the form of frozen snow,
with some sugar put this on top of your two drinks, and serve
                 ;



with a spoon.

                        213. Stye 0enator.

   A glass with shaved ice,
                 Yd of brandy,
                 l
                 /6 of maraschino,
                  l
                 /(>   of curagao,
                  l
                 /e>   of chartreuse,
                  l
                 /6 of benedictine,
                 /6 of creme de roses.
                 l



   Shake this well, strain into a cocktail glass, and serve.
                            MIXED DRINKS.                     177


                   214.         t)e   Stjanirg    @aff.
   A glass of Bass ale and a glass of ginger ale are mixed in a
glass together, and served.


                        215. Stye Snou)balL
   A large glass with an egg; beat up well with a little powdered
sugar, add a bottle of genuine cold ginger ale while you stir it
thoroughly, and serve. You may add a pony of brandy.

                         216.     "ffllje   Sun."
    The juice of half an orange and half a lime in the bottom of
a large, thin glass; add and dissolve a spoonful of powdered
sugar with a dash of mineral water,
                   i
                       pony of fine brandy,
                   Yz pony of Jamaica rum,
                   idash of benedictine,
                   idash of curayao,
                  1 dash of creme de roses.

    Mix this thoroughly, fill your glass with fine ice; stir well;
ornament with frozen snow in the centre, and the brim with
                                     " The
fruits; write on the top of the snow        Sun," with nutmeg.
    Should you have no real snow, beat up the white of an egg
with a little fine sugar.


                 217. "Stye             t>ening    0mt."
                                (FOR FOUR.)
   In a large glass,
                   the juice of a large lemon,
                   2 barspoonfuls of powdered sugar,
                 fill the
                          glass with chopped ice,
                 a drink of fine brandy,
                 a pony of green chartreuse,
                 Y* pony of creme de roses,
                 the whites of 2 eggs.
   Shake this to the freezing-point.
   In four glasses divide a pint of dry champagne; strain your
ingredients into these four glasses very slowly, and serve.
                          MIXED DRINKS.


                       218. test) ani            in.

    Place a little tansy in a tumbler, add a little sugar, mix with
a little water to extract the substance of the tansy; pour in gin
(Holland or Old Tom), and serve with a spoon.

                       219.       om anfo Jerrg.
    Break the yolks of six eggs in the bottom of a large bowl beat
                                                             ;




it long enough to make bubbles appear on the top; stir in some
fine sugar gradually, until the mixture becomes hard enough, so
that you may take out a spoonful of it without spilling anything;
beat the whites of the eggs into the form of frozen snow in an-
other bowl; add one-half of this to your first mixture; mix this
together with two ponies of maraschino and two ponies of creme
de vanille, take a tablespoonful of this mixture in a fancy Tom-
and-Jerry cup; add a small drink of either brandy, whiskey, rum,
sherry wine or port wine; mix this well; fill the balance with
boiling milk; put a little of the white of the eggs you have got
left on the top; add a little ground cinnamon and your drink is

ready.
     (To keep your mixture in the bowl from getting hard, put a
small glass of ale on the top.)


                        220.       ip-op      Sip.
     A goblet with a dash of creme de roses,
                   i   dash of absinthe,
                   l
                   /s of sherry wine,
                   /s of port wine,
                   l




                   /2> of vino vermouth,
                   l



                   a little fine ice.
     Mix this thoroughly, strain into a fancy glass, and present.

                   221.       a   t)ie   |)ari0ienne.
     Mix one part of Burgundy an<3 two parts of champagne in
your glass. (This drink is one of the richest.)
   Also porter (Dublin Stout) may be mixed the same way with
champagne with a most satisfactory result.
                             MIXED DRINKS.                           179



                            222.      om Collins
   The juice of half a lemon in a large glass,
                     a barspoonful of sugar,
                     a drink of Tom gin; mix this well;
                     2 lumps of ice,
                     a bottle of plain soda.
   Mix well and serve.

                         223. luncl) of I)iolet0.
                                   (FOR TWO.)
   Put an egg in a mixing-glass,
                     a spoonful of sugar,
                     y<o   of benedictine,
                     Yd of maraschino,
                     Yt> of anisette,
                     l
                     /{>   of vino vermouth,
                     l
                     /f>   of creme de vanille,
                     l
                     /6 of chartreuse,
                     2 ponies of cream.
   Fill your glass with ice;         freeze into a jelly, and strain into

long glasses, and serve.

             224. tUUltam'a             Summer (fTooler.
   In a very long cut glass the juice of two limes,
                     a spoonful of powdered sugar,
                     a good dash of Seltzer; dissolve this well;
                     i
                         pony of Santa Cruz rum,
                     1                       mix this.
                         glass of California claret;
                           ornament with slices of orange and
   Fill your glass with ice;

pineapple, and ice-cream, and top off with strawberries or other
berries in season.

                           225.    tUI)t0kea
   A goblet with a little fine ice,
                     2 dashes of gum,
                     i   drink of whiskey.
   Stir this well, strain and serve.
180                     MIXED DRINKS.


                                   brinks.

                               226.
    A handful of fresh tansy is infused in a bottle of gin, this be-
ing the best, although other liquors may be used, too; infuse
for twenty-four hours at least.     One-third of a drink will be
sufficient for a drink, and be a good appetizer.



                               227.
   About a dozen fresh stalks of calamus are infused in a bot-
                        hours and served like the former. It
tle of gin for twenty-four
is excellent for cramps.
Hatafia0.
Introduction to Ctquors cmb Batafias.

  THE    manufacture of these alcoholic beverages is
done, firstly, by distillation, by which method the finest
liquors    are       obtained   ;   secondly, by extraction,             and
thirdly, by simply mixing volatile extracts of plants to

cognac spirits, etc.         They all contain larger or smaller
quantities of dissolved sugar, and various aromatic or
spicy ingredients.
  Distillation        is   more complicated and troublesome
than the two other methods, but it secures products of
far higher fineness         and value      ;   yet the requirement of
the  apparatus necessary for manufacturing them
renders the application too difficult in a household                        ;




furthermore, a profound knowledge of chemistry, great
practice and dexterity are required                     ;   therefore,   this

manufacturing is better             left to     large       establishments.
The best and most exquisite liquors of this kind are im-
ported from Dantzic, Breslau, Berlin, Stettin,                       Ham-
burg, Mannheim, Vienna, Trieste,                  Amsterdam, Italy,
Bordeaux, Paris, and the West Indies. The recipes to
manufacture the most famous among them are mostly
kept secret moreover, the foreign ratafias may not
                 ;




easily be imitated because many of the herbs and fruits
required for the            purpose are         not growing in this

country.
                                     183
1   84               LIQUORS AND RATAFIAS.

  To prepare good and very palatable liquors for the
family use we put down a series of recipes, as verified
by our own experience, and that of others. But we
declare here candidly and freely, that           it is   absolutely
impossible to obtain by extraction the same liquors as
by distillation.       The liquors won by infusing fruits or
blossoms, or         by mixing with    fruit-juices      are   called

ratafias; the fine      French, very sweet, and, on account
of this,   more consistent liquors are called cremes or
huiles (oils)    :    creme de vanille, creme de Barbados,
creme de cafe, de canelle, de chocolat, huile de rose, huile
de Venus, de Jupiter, de Cy there, des demoiselles, etc.



                          228.

   A strong liquor made of vermouth; it is mainly drunk in
France; it is said to strengthen the stomach. Swiss absinthe is
the most renowned one.
   Recipe : To four quarts of cognac spirits take eight ounces of
anise, one  ounce of star anise, four ounces of great and four
ounces of small fennel, one ounce of coriander, one-fourth ounce
of angelica root, one ounce of angel sweet root, half an ounce of
licorice, half an ounce of calamus, half an ounce of bitter
almonds, one ounce of great and one ounce of small leaves of
vermouth, one-fourth ounce of peppermint leaves, half an ounce
of camilles, one-fourth ounce of juniper; let all these ingredients
distill from three to four weeks on a warm place, or in the sun-

light; filter and fill into bottles.




                     229. 2llmonb0' <00ntce.

   One and a half pounds of sweet and four ounces of bitter
almonds are poured over with boiling water in a sieve; skin and
                     LIQUORS AND RATAFIAS.                           185


dry them; grind them very fine by adding from one to one and
a half pints of cold water.
   Refine three pounds of sugar to what is called sucre a la
plume, i.e., boil the sugar in water until the sugar, sticking to
the wooden spoon can be blown off in bubbles of the size of a
pea; add now the ground almonds; let all boil up once, and
cool off well covered press through a hair sieve, fill into small
                         ;



bottles, cork well, and keep them on a cool place.



                      230. Slnanaa (KorWal.

    Cut one-fourth of an unpeeled pineapple into small pieces;
boil one quart of water with six ounces of lump-sugar; skin care-

fully; add the pineapple, and put all in a great stone jar or a demi-
john; pour three pints of old Jamaica rum or brandy over it;
let it soak a fortnight on a warm place; filter and fill into

bottles.

                      231. Angelica CortrtaL

   Cut one ounce of fresh or dried angelica into small pieces, put
itwith one-sixth ounce of cloves, one-sixth ounce of cardamom,
one-third ounce of stick cinnamon in a demijohn; pour over it
three pints of cognac; let it stand about four weeks in a warm
place: sweeten with one pound of lump-sugar refined and clear-
ed in one pint of boiling water.


                      232. 2lm0ette Cortual.

     A fine French cordial; the best one comes from Bordeaux;          it

is   to be   warmly recommended after rich dinners, as it helps
digestion.
   Take six quarts of cognac, four ounces of pulverized star anise,
four ounces of ordinary anise, the peel of two lemons, one ounce
of stick     cinnamon; let this stand four weeks in the sun, or in a
warm place; sweeten with two and a half pounds of lump-sugar,
refined    and cleared       in three quarts of boiling water; filter and
bottle.
186               LIQUORS AND RATAFIAS.


                      233. Apricot    Corbtal.

    Twenty-five apricots are cut in two; mash their pits, and put
all in a stone jar;add half a pound of sugar, six cloves, and half
a stick of cinnamon; pour one quart of cognac over it, cover or
cork it well let it stand about three weeks in a warm place,
              ;



shake it once in a while; filter, and bottle.


                            234. Arrack.

    Arrack is a strong, alcoholic beverage of light yellow color;

    prepared in the East and West Indies from the juice of the
it is

areca palm-tree, from the sugary juice of the blossoms of the
cocoa palm-tree, which is called toddy, from sugar-molasses or
from rice with palm-juice.
   The arrack of Goa and Batavia are the best brands and of
very delicious odor and taste. The manufacturing is mostly done
in very simple, imperfect apparatus, chiefly   on Java: the best
brand there is called Kiji, the second, Taupo, the last, Sichow.


                      235. I3alm Corbtal.

    Infuse in one quart of fine cognac a handful of balm-leaves
for twenty-four hours in the sunlight or upon the stove;   remove
the leaves, add one pound of powdered sugar, expose the cordial
two days to the sun, until the sugar is all dissolved; filter, and
bottle.

                  236. Basle Ktr0d)tDas0er.

    This well-known, famous liquor is obtained in Switzerland,
mainly in the vicinity of Basle and in the Black Forest from the
black and very sweet berries of the wood-cherries; gather them
when they are very ripe in dry weather; free them from their
stalks, and mash them in large tubs with wooden mashers; mash
also a part of the pits ;
                         then fill the entire substance into casks,
each two-thirds full, and cover the bunghole.
    The fermentation begins soon, and lasts nearly three weeks;
after fermentation is done, bring the whole into a distilling ap-
                  LIQUORS AND RATAFIAS.                            187


paratus; continue distilling while slowly heating, until absolutely
light, colorless kirschwasser is distilled over to the condenser.
This distillate is distilled over again, and filled into bottles.
    Many trials have been made to find an equivalent for this ex-
cellent cordial, but in vain; never take any but the genuine im-

ported Basle kirschwasser.

                    237. UUbtrra           Coririal.

    Infuse any quantity of red bilberries in a wide-necked, large
bottle with   enough cognac to cover them;             cork the bottle,
place it on a sunny spot, and let it stand until the berries have
lost their red color. Filter, add to each quart of liquor one pound
of refined sugar-syrup, and bottle.
    It is a favorite drink in   Sweden and Russia.


                        238. UeneMctme.

   The active part of the genuine Benedictine cordial is com-
posed nearly exclusively of plants growing on the steep precipices
of Normandy; they are gathered and infused at the time when
the sap rises, and the blossoms spring forth. These herbs, grow-
ing near the sea, are saturated with bromine, iodine, and chlo-
ruret of sodium, and develop and keep their healing power in
the alcoholic liquids; only best cognac is used for infusion.


                     230.       J3i0t)op   CorMal.

   Peel twelve bitter oranges, infuse the rind with one quart of
old Jamaica rum or arrack de Batavia in a well-covered tureen
for twenty-four hours; strain the fluid, and fill it into small bot-
    cork, and seal.
tles,
   Use two tablespoonfuls of this essence to a bottle of claret,
and sweeten to taste.

                240. Bitter-Orange CorMal.

   Put the rind of six thinly peeled bitter oranges in a stone pot,
add the filtered juice of the fruit and two quarts of best brandy;
1   88             LIQUORS AND RATAFIAS.

let it soak for three days, well covered; clear and refine one and
a half pounds of sugar, add it to the liquor, filter and bottle; do
not use it before six months.

                         241.
   Make with a fine needle little holes in the skin of six bitter
oranges, place  them in a large bottle; pour in two and a half
quarts of brandy; let soak for four weeks, add syrup made of one
and a half pounds of sugar and one pint of water;          filter   and
bottle.
                    242.    (!Ia0si0   Ciquenr.
     Put one pint of mashed black currants in a big bottle; add
half a pound of pulverized sugar and one quart of cognac;           cork
the bottle well, and let it stand for six weeks in the sun; shake
daily; then strain through      canton flannel, bottle, and   let    the
bottles lie for a while.

                    243. Cassia        llatafia.

     Put in a stone pot one quart of well-cleaned black currants;
mash them, add twenty to thirty raspberries, tied up with some
cloves in a little muslin bag; add two and a half quarts of brandy;
let it stand for eight weeks; filter; mix it with one pound of sugar

refined to syrup, which must be still hot;     let it again stand for

some days, then filter, and bottle.

                       244.       I)artrm0e.
   The preparation of this famous cordial and its trade is mo-
nopolized by the monks of the monastery Grande Chartreuse, in
the French departement Isere; the monastery was built by St.
Bruno in the year 1086.
     The monks keep their secret very carefully; an imitation may
be obtained  io the following way: Take one pint of the best

brandy or kirschwasser, eight drops of vermouth essence, one
drop of cinnamon essence, one drop of rose essence, and twelve
ounces of sugar that was refined and cleared in one pint of water;
strain through flannel, cork, seal, and let it lie at least eight
weeks.
                    LIQUORS AND RATAFIAS.                           189


             245.   <HI)ttT2     orirtal   a la Jrancat0e.

   A sufficient quantity, half of sweet and half of sour cherries,
is cleaned and mashed; press the juice through a hair-sieve so as
to receive two quarts of juice, which is to be poured into a tureen;
add one quart of currant-juice, two pounds of powdered sugar,
the pits washed and cracked; stir the mixture now and then in
order to dissolve the sugar; after this add four quarts of brandy,
let soak six days in the well-covered tureen, filter, and bottle.



                            246.     2lnotl)tr.
   Put a quantity of very ripe, partly mashed, sour cherries in a
tureen; add one-sixth of their weight of ripe, likewise partly
mashed raspberries, and a handful of cracked cherry-pits; let it
stand a week, then filter the juice; add to each three quarts as
much cognac; fill the liquor into a large glass jar; shake often;
expose it to the sun for four weeks, filter again, and bottle.

                247.    (ffngltsl)    Ctyerrg     Branlrg.

    Twenty pounds of wild cherries are freed of their pits; the
pits are pulverized, and with the cherries infused in ten quarts
of brandy in a covered stone jar for six weeks;        add four pounds
of refined sugar, filter,      and   bottle, but use only after   a few
months.
                            248.     ftnotljer.

    Six pounds of wild cherries, six pounds of Armenian cherries,
and two pounds of raspberries are mashed and put in a small
cask; add three pounds of sugar, twelve cloves, half an ounce of
powdered cinnamon, one grated nutmeg, a handful of mint
leaves, and seven quarts of fine brandy or gin; bung after ten
days, and bottle the brandy after two months.


                      249.     atlerr      liatafta.

   For the manufacture of a good and palatable cherry ratafia
without a distilling apparatus, we add a couple of recipes:
   Fill one and a fourth quarts of brandy, one pound of pulver^
IQO               LIQUORS AND RATAFIAS.

ized sugar, one pound of pulverized sweet and one pound of pul-
verized sour cherries, half a pint of black currants, one-tenth
ounce of cinnamon into a large bottle; expose for three days to
the sunlight;filter, bottle, and use after a few weeks.




                          250.   2lnotl)er.


   Eight pounds of sour cherries are freed from their pits, and
all are put in a stone pot;add one pound of raspberries, half a
pound of currants, one and a half ounces of pulverized almonds,
one-fourth ounce of cloves, one-half ounce of powdered cinna-
mon, one-half ounce of mace; infuse this in four quarts of co-
gnac in a covered pot, for three weeks, on a place that is equally
warm; shake daily once, add three pounds of cleared and refined
sugar; filter and bottle.

                          251.   Slnotljer.

   Mash two pounds of sour cherries, put them in a wide-
necked   bottle, add   one quart of cognac, cork well, and let it
stand for four weeks.


                        252.     l)ristopl)(et.


   Grate three-fourths of an ounce of cinnamon, three-fourths
ounce of cloves, three-fourths ounce of cardamom, three-fourths
ounce of cubebs; put this with one pound of lump-sugar in
three pints of claret; cover it well, and let it slowly boil; after
cooling add one and a fourth quarts of brandy; strain through
canton flannel, bottle, cork, seal, and keep in a dry place.


                 253. Cinnamon (JorbiaL

   Boil one-fourth pound of roughly pulverized Ceylon cinna-
mon in one quart of water, half an hour; add one and a half
pounds of sugar, and refine it in the cinnamon water; after get-
ting cool mix with one and a half quarts of brandy; cork well,
let stand for a few days in a warm place, filter and bottle.
                  LIQUORS AND RATAFIAS.


                     254.      kroe   Cortial

    Infuse in a big glass jar one-fourth ounce of roughly pulver-
ized cloves, half an ounce of likewise prepared coriander, and a
handful of dried cherries in a quart of brandy, five weeks, in the
sun or on a warm place; shake daily. Clear and refine five
ounces of sugar in half a pint of water; skim very carefully, let it
get a little cool, add the infusion and filter through blotting-
paper and glass funnel; bottle and let it lie for a few weeks.



                    255. Coffee Ciquntr.

   Roast three ounces of the best mocha; grind it; prepare a
syrup out of one pound of sugar and half a pound of water; put
the coffee in the boiling syrup, and let it boil for a few seconds;
mix all with one quart of brandy, cork well, and let it stand for
a month; then filter, and the liquor is ready for use.



                         256.

    All liquors obtained by distillation of the grape-juice are
                                               that prepared in
usually called cognac in France, although only
the  city of Cognac, in the arrondissement of the departement
Charente, deserves this name; this is the best, while those from
Languedoc, Armagnac, Auris, Rochelle, and Bordeaux,
                                                          are all
of inferior quality and less aromatic;  but even  in the genuine
cognac we have to distinguish between many different brands,
which depend upon its age, and the results of the wine crop.
                                    " Trois-six"
In France it also has the names                   corresponding to
                                " Eau de vie" while the English
its percentage of alcohol, and

call it "brandy."    Charente and Gironde alone produce yearly
more than one million hektoliters (i hektoliter=io5.67 liquid
quarts).    The fineness of this liquor increases with its age, and
when    old  enough, assumes the taste of an exceedingly fine,
spirituous wine. There are many imitations, mostly with spirits
of 90 proof, cognac oil and coloring.
192                LIQUORS AND RATAFIAS.


                          257.
   This famous liquor is manufactured best in Amsterdam by
infusing curagao peel in very good brandy that has been sweet-
ened with sugar syrup. The curagao fruit is a species of the
bitter orange, that    grows mainly in Curagao, one of the Lesser
Antilles, north of Venezuela, and the greatest      Dutch colony in
the West Indies.

                    258. Currant Hatafia.
   Fill into a large stone pot or jar four quarts of good    brandy,
two quarts of currant-juice      you obtain this juice by placing the
pot with the currants within a larger vessel partly filled with
water, which is heated until the currants in the smaller pot
burst add three pounds of sugar, a stick of cinnamon, some
cloves; let it stand four weeks; stir daily; filter through flannel,
and bottle.
                   259. Currant

   The juice of eight quarts of currants is mixed with twenty
quarts of boiling water in which eight pounds of honey are dis-
solved; add one ounce of cremor tartari; stir well for a quarter
of an hour; when the fermentation is over and the liquid is clear,
add one quart of brandy; bottle at once, fasten the corks with
wire, and place the bottles in the cellar; you may use the bever-
age after six weeks.

               260.      (ffnglisl)   (Slier Branirg.


    Squeeze the juice of a large quantity of elderberries through
a cloth; boil up with sugar and some cloves; let it get cool; add
to each twenty quarts of juice two quarts of cognac, and keep
it in the cellar.


                 261. lUir       (gnglts!)   Hatafia.

   Four pounds of ripe, red cherries, two pounds of blackberries,
three pounds of gooseberries, three pounds of raspberries, three
pounds of red currants, are mashed with a wooden masher in a
                   LIQUORS AND RATAFIAS.                         193


big earthen jug; mash in another pot one-sixteenth ounce of
cloves, one-sixteenth ounce of mace, half an ounce of cinna-
mon, one-third ounce of coriander, one-eighth ounce of fennel,
one-sixteenth ounce of Jamaica pepper, the pits of twelve apri-
cots, the pits of twenty sour cherries, and six bitter almonds;
mix the two mashes well add two and a half quarts of sugar
                              ;




syrup, fill all into a large jug, close with a skin, and place it a
fortnight near the stove.    Then filter the juice through a linen
bag, squeeze the remnants well; add one quart of best brandy to
each quart of juice; place the mixture again fora fortnight near
the stove;   filter and bottle.




          262.   Jrencl) liatafia   am (JHuatre Jhiit0.
   Mash ten pounds of sour cherries, eight pounds of red and
two pounds of black currants, and ten pounds of raspberries; let
them stand for a few days in the cellar; squeeze the juice, add
the same quantity of cognac, and to each quart of the mixture
one-fourth pound of refined sugar; mix all well; let the ratafia
stand for a week at least; filter and bottle.



                           263.   flnotljer.

    Mix one quart of fresh raspberry-juice, one quart of cherry-
juice, one quart each of the juice of red and black currants; to
each quart of juice add three quarts of cognac, seven ounces of
broken lump-sugar, three cloves; expose the mixture in a, large
glass bottle to the sunlight until it is absolutely clear; filter and
bottle.

                             264.   @m.
    A very strong liquor manufactured in Holland (Holland gin),
and England (Old Tom gin), which is distilled from juniperus
berries, and is used mainly by sailors as a warming beverage,
and is good for the stomach, and against scurvy. In Schie-
dam, Delft and Rotterdam, gin is manufactured in large quanti-
ties; in Schiedam there are more than 300 distilleries.
     13
194               LIQUORS AND RATAFIAS.


                    265.          inger Coriial.

   In a large, wide-necked bottle place one and a half ounces of
pulverized ginger; infuse this in a quart of cognac, well corked,
for from two to three days; stir now and then; strain through a
flannel, and   add a syrup of one pound of sugar cleared and
refined in one gill of water;    filter again;   cork well.
   The English often add to the pulverized ginger one pound of
mashed black or white currants that secures a very delicious
taste.

                          266.    fflnngerttte.

   One pound of very ripe black currants are cleaned from their
stalks, and infused with one quart of gin, and the rind of a thin-

ly peeled   lemon three days in a well-corked         bottle; strain the
liquor into another bottle; add half an ounce of pulverized gin-
ger, and one pound of granulated sugar; place the bottle in a
sunny spot; shake    it   daily; strain the liquor once more into
smaller bottles, cork well, and let     them lie for a while before
using.
                   267. <8>noble          llatafia.

    Mash a quantity of very ripe sour cherries with a wooden
masher, pits included; let the mash soak forty-eight hours in a
clean wooden tub, then squeeze the juice.      Refine the sugar,
two pounds to every six or seven quarts, add the sugar syrup to
the juice, one-third ounce of cloves, two-thirds of an ounce of
broken cinnamon, two handfuls of fresh sour cherry leaves, and
six quarts of cognac; pour everything into a small cask, which,
while daily shaken, has to lie four to six weeks; bottle the rata-
fia after filtering; use after a while.



                      268. Qtp Ciqueur.
   Infuse one and a half pounds of fresh, well-cleaned hips, cut
into pieces, in one quart of kirschwasser a fortnight in a warm
place; refine and clear six ounces of sugar in half a pint of boil-
ing water; let this get cool, and mix it with the liquor; strain it
through blotting-paper, and bottle it.
                    LIQUORS AND RATAFIAS.                     195



                269.
   A wide-necked bottle is filled with ripe, dried cones of the
hop; shake them together without pressing, infuse it with sher-
ry for four weeks; strain and mix it with a thin sugar syrup
of six ounces of sugar with half a pint of water; strain again,
bottle and seal; use either unmixed or with water as a tonic for
the stomach.

                    270.   Jvisl)   10qucbaugl).
                           (SEE WHISKEY.)
   This famous cordial, which the French call Scubac, is prepar-
ed in various ways.
   One and one-fifth ounces of nutmeg, as much of cloves and
of cinnamon, two  and one-third ounces of anise, as much of
kiimmel and coriander are mashed; put this with four ounces of
licorice root, twenty-three quarts of rectified alcohol, and four
and a half quarts of water in the distilling apparatus; color the
condensated liquor with saffron, and sweeten with sugar syrup.


                           271.

   Infuse one ounce of grated nutmeg, as      much of cinnamon,
angelica, rhubarb and cassia; one-third ounce of saffron, as much
of cardamom, cloves and mace; one-third ounce of coriander, as
much of anise and kiimmel, and three and one-third ounces of
licorice root in twenty-three quarts of brandy a fortnight; filter
the liquor; sweeten with sugar syrup, filter again and bottle;
use after a few months.


                           272.
   In smaller quantities this liquor is prepared by Irish house-
wives as follows:




   Infuse one pound of seedless raisins, half an ounce of grated
nutmeg, one-fourth of an ounce of pulverized cloves, as much of
cardamom, the peel of a sour orange rubbed off on sugar, half a
pound of brown rock-candy, and a little saffron tincture in two
quarts of brandy a fortnight; stir daily; filter and bottle.
                      LIQUORS AND RATAFIAS.


                        273.   3m Ciqueur.
   This is very good, green bitters, which is obtained in Switzer-
land out of the Achillea Moschata, a shrub that grows on the
highest Alps; it is of great aromatic odor and taste, and a great
article for export.

                      274. lumper CorMal.
   Mash slightly half a pint of fresh juniper berries; infuse it with
four quarts of cognac a fortnight in a large glass bottle expose
                                                            ;



it to the sunlight; filter; mix with a syrup of one and a half
pounds of sugar in three-fourths of a quart of water; cork well;
let the mixture stand for a few days; filter and bottle.



                         275. Kajotoskn.
                          (SLOE RATAFIA.)
   After you have plucked, at the end of September a sufficient
quantity of very ripe sloes, spread them on a sheet of paper, lay
them one day in the sun, then take the pits out, wash them and
dry them in the sun. For each half a pint of pits take one
quart of cognac; break the pits, and put shells and pits in the
cognac; let it stand for six weeks; shake now and then. Filter
after this time, and   fill into a
                                   large, flat tureen, then boil for
each quart of liquor three pounds of loaf-sugar over a fast fire
to a brownish syrup; add this carefully, while stirring, to the
liquor; continue stirring until both liquids are well mixed,
bottle, cork and seal.
   (The longer you let it lie, the better your liquor will become.)

                         276. Kummel.
    Fill three quarts of cognac or kirschwasser, six ounces of bro-
ken caraway, and two-fifths of an ounce of star am'se into a glass
bottle, close it with a bladder, and place it in a pot partly filled
with cold water; now heat this, and let boil for half an hour; take
the pot from the fire, and let the bottle get cool in the water,
then sweeten the liquor with two pounds of refined sugar; filter,
bottle and cork well.
                   LIQUORS AND RATAFIAS.                      197



                          277.       ftnotljer.

   With the      aid of oils the     method of manufacturing is as
follows:
           dissolve 30 drops of caraway extract,
                   2 drops of fennel oil,
                   i
                     drop of cinnamon oil in one ounce of spirits;
mix this to four quarts of cognac and three pounds of refined
sugar; filter and bottle.


                       278. Cnnon         liatafia.


   Infuse the thinly peeled rind of four or five lemons with two
quarts of cognac or kirschwasser in a corked bottle, for twelve
days, in a moderately warm place; boil one and a half pounds
of lump-sugar in two quarts of water until the sugar drops from
the wooden spoon in large flakes; add the spirit, let it simmer
over a slow fire for a few minutes, strain through flannel, and
bottle after cooling.



                279.    (ffnglisl)    Cemon Eatafta.

    Four quarts of cognac are filled into a stone jar with one and
a half pounds of pulverized sugar, the juice and the rind of six-
teen lemons, and two quarts of boiling milk; stir thoroughly;
cover the pot and let it stand for ten days; stir the fluid daily;
then strain it through flannel, and bottle.



                        280.   HTagenbittn-0.

    Three ounces of bitter-orange peel, three-fourths of an ounce
of star anise, one-fourth of an ounce of ordinary anise, half an
ounce of gentian, half an ounce of alant root, one-fourth ounce
of Erythr&a Centaurium, and one-fourth ounce of cremor tar-
tari; infuse these ingredients in four quarts of cognac two to
three weeks; filter, sweeten with two pounds of refined sugar
and bottle.
198               LIQUORS AND RATAFIAS.


                         281.

   Three ounces of orange-peel, one-fourth ounce of vermouth,
one-fourth ounce of Erythrcea Centa^<r^ltm, one-eighth ounce of
angelica root, one-fourth ounce of violet roots, one-fourth ounce
of Carduus Benedictus, one-eighth ounce of stick cinnamon, one-
eighth ounce of grated nutmeg; infuse these ingredients in two
quarts of cognac from two to three weeks; sweeten with one
pound of refined sugar, and bottle.

                      282. filara0d)in0.

    One of the finest liquors which is prepared in Italy and Dal-
matia from the berry of the mahaleb cherry, equally excellent for
its odor and taste; this fruit is black, berry-like, flat above and

oval below; it tastes bitter, but contains a pit of great fragrance.
When these fruits are perfectly ripe, they are gathered, and
mashed together with the pits; best white honey of their own
weight is added; the fluid undergoes first a fermentation, and is
then subject to distillation. This first distillate has to lie for a
year; then it is distilled twice more, and is now a very delicious
liquor, which, however, is but the basis of the real maraschino
di Zara.   Take, now, sugar one-third of the liquor's weight, dis-
solve  it in one-third of its
                              weight of water; refine this sugar
syrup by the white of one egg or more; boil it to the consistency
of a thick syrup, filter through a flannel bag, and mix this with
the liquor; bottle, let the bottles lie for a year, and they are
filled then into the well-known straw-covered bottles that are

exported from Trieste, Austria.
   There is a number of recipes to imitate this cordial, but we
must abstain from publishing them, as being too         difficult   to
prepare.

                     283.     filial Ciqueur.

   Infuse two handfuls of fresh mint leaves in two quarts of the
best brandy, three or four weeks, in a well-corked bottle, in the
sun or in a warm place add a cold syrup of three-fourths to
                          ;



one pound of sugar; filter and bottle.
                    LIQUORS AND RATAFIAS.                               199



                          284.

     Akind of a light fruit liquor; it is made mostly of berries and
cherries, but also of plums and apples, and is very highly estim-
ated in Russia, and prepared there in almost all houses, especially
in the country.  The best nalifkas are won of the Rubus Chama-
morus, which grows only in Russia, Norway, Sweden, East
Prussia, and the northern part of England, of the black and red
currants, of the berries of the mountain ash, and of cherries.
All these fruits must be very ripe; those of the mountain must
not be gathered before the first frost.
     Fill a big glass jar two-thirds full with berries, and pour over
it cognac to fill the jar; close the jar with a piece of muslin;
expose it from two to three months to the direct action of the
sunlight, and shake every second or third day.     Then filter the
nalifka through a funnel covered with linen and absorbent cot-
ton, until it flows off perfectly clear; fill into ordinary wine
bottles.  Add to each three or four bottles of nalifka one bottle
of water, and to each bottle of the thinned liquor four ounces of
sugar that has been refined in boiling water to a consistent
syrup.   Add to this syrup the whole quantity of nalifka, heat
the fluid, while constantly stirring, nearly to the boiling-point;
take it from the fire, and pour it into an earthen or china pot.
After cooling, bottle, cork and seal; you may either use it right
away, or keep it.



                    285. Jfonparnl Ciquntr.

     Peel a perfectly ripe pineapple, cut       it   into slices   and mash
them; add twenty of the best white plums, cut in two, and with-
out the pits and one dozen of very aromatic pears. To each
four pounds of fruit take six pounds of loaf-sugar, and one and
a half quarts of water; boil all this for three-quarters of an hour
in an enameled pot; pour it into a tureen, add three quarts of
fine   cognac, cover it air-tight, let   it   stand for six weeks, filter
through a jelly-bag, and bottle.
200               LIQUORS AND RATAFIAS.


                         286. 2Ccmcau.

    A very fine cordial; the genuine article comes from Marti-
nique only, and is very rare and expensive; only small quanti-
ties of it must be taken, as it is not harmless at all in spite of its

unique taste. It is prepared from the pits of a fruit in the West
Indies,   and these pits contain a strong dose of hydrocyanic
acid.
    The French prepare a number of very good imitations of the
genuine noyeau. For those that are in possession of a distilling
apparatus we add a very good French recipe            :




.   Half a pound of cut apricot-pits are infused in six quarts of
rectified alcohol, and one quart of water, for a week; distil the
alcohol, mix it with one pint of orange-flower water, and three
pounds of sugar that is cleared and refined in three quarts of
water, filter and fill into bottles; use it after a few months.


              287.    <ngli01)         range Sranto.
     Two pounds of lump-sugar, ten whole oranges, and one stick
of cinnamon are put in five quarts of the best brandy; let it stand
in a well-covered stone jar    from    five   to six weeks, and stir   it

daily with a wooden spoon; filter and fill into bottles.


               288.       rangc-Jloroer Katafia.
    Three and a half ounces of fresh orange-flowers are infused
in  two quarts of the best brandy in a sunny place four days;
filter; add a syrup of one and a half pounds of sugar in one

quart of water; filter again and bottle.


                     289,       range Ciquor.
     Peel six oranges thinly with a sharp knife, put the peel in
two quarts of cognac; press the juice of the oranges on two and
a half pounds of lump-sugar, which is to be added to the liquor
right away after melting; let    it   stand   five   to six weeks, daily
stirring with a wooden spoon; filter and fill into bottles,
                  LIQUORS AND RATAFIAS.                         2OI



                    290.    JJarfait 3lm<ror.

   A very fine cordial which may be made in different ways.
   If you have a distilling apparatus, distil three quarts of alcohol

with the rhul of four thinly peeled lemons, one-fifteenth ounce
of lemon oil, one-thirtieth ounce of bergamotoil; stop when the
distillate shows 60 to 70    Tralles; distil anew with one quart
of milk, dye the entire distillate with cochineal tinctures lightly
red, and add two quarts of sugar syrup.


                           BY INFUSION.

   Ten drops of clove essence, five drops of nutmeg essence, and
a few drops of lemon essence are mixed with two quarts of al-
cohol of 83; color with cochineal tincture slightly red, and add a
syrup out of four pounds of sugar in one quart of water. Let the
mixture stand four weeks; stir or shake daily, then filter and
bottle.


                         291.

   Mash three fine peeled celery roots with the green sprigs on
them; add four and a half quarts of brandy; distil this mixture
with a spoonful of salt in a retort. The obtained product is mixed
with three-fourths of a pound of roasted and pulverized cocoa
beans, one-fourth of an ounce of cut vanilla, and three pounds
of refined sugar; let it stand for a week; color with a cochineal
tincture slightly red, and filter.



                         292.

   This fine cordial must be taken only in small doses, as it con-
tains hydrocyanic acid,    Peel half a pound of peach-pits, and
half a pound of apricot-pits, mash them, and infuse the mash
with one-eighth of an ounce of fine cinnamon in four quarts of
cognac; infuse in a large bottle a week in the sun; filter; purify
two pounds of loaf-sugar in one pint of water, strain, and let it
get cool; mix this syrup with the liquor, and fill into bottles,
202                LIQUORS AND RATAFIAS.


                          293.

   Put one and a fourth pounds of fresh peach-kernels in luke-
warm water, skin and mash them; infuse the mash with one-
eighth of an ounce of broken cinnamon and four quarts of best
brandy in a jug for four weeks; cover the jug with a skin; after
this make a syrup of two pounds of sugar and one pint of water,
and filter the whole mixture through a jelly-bag; bottle.


                     294.    (Ehrince Ciquor.

   A number of very ripe, fine quinces are peeled, grated, and
                             the following day squeeze the juice;
left over night in the cellar;
take to each four and a half quarts of quince-juice two quarts of
cognac, one pound of sugar, one ounce of stick cinnamon, two-
fifths of an ounce of cloves,    and two ounces of pulverized   bitter

almonds; let all this stand in a well-corked bottle a fortnight;
shake daily and filter.

                          295.

   Grate the quinces, let them stand twenty-four hours; squeeze
the juice; refine one pound of sugar in three pints of water, add
the syrup, and let all boil for a quarter of an hour; let it get
cool; add the same quantity of brandy or kirschwasser, pour all
into a large glass bottle, add one ounce of bitter almonds, and
one and one-third ounces of coriander; let soak a fortnight;
shake daily, filter and bottle.


                296. <nglt0t)          uincc Ctquor.

   After you have cleaned a few ripe quinces with a towel, cut
them in two, cut out the seeds, and grate the fruit on a grater,
place the mash lightly strewed with sugar in a large dish twenty-
four hours in a cool place; squeeze the juice, filter until it is per-
fectly clear;add to each pint of juice half a pound of sugar, and
one pint of brandy or whiskey; let the liquor stand a fortnight;
shake daily and bottle.
                     LIQUORS AND RATAFIAS.                        2O3


                  297.    Jvcncl)   (Staincc tlatafia.


       Very ripe, well-cleaned quinces are grated on a grater; let the
mash stand three days in a well-covered earthen dish in the cel-
lar,   and squeeze the juice     out.   Add to the filtered juice an
equal quantity of brandy, seven ounces of sugar to each quart of
the mixture, a stick of cinnamon, and a few cloves; let soak
two months, filter, fill into bottles and let them lie as long as
possible, as the aroma is thus highly improved.




                    298.    ftaopberrjj    Batafia.


       In a large glass bottle infuse one quart of fresh and very ripe
raspberries with two quarts of cognac; close the bottle well, and
let it stand in the sun four weeks; then refine two pounds of

sugar in one quart of boiling water to a thin syrup; add the
syrup to the liquor; strain through flannel, and bottle.



                299.   Jrciul)   Jia0pbmrg Hatafia.

    Put in a tureen four quarts of cognac, two quarts of raspberry-
juice, two pounds of loaf-sugar, a few sticks of cinnamon,
                                                                 and
four or five cloves; stir it well; cover and let it stand four weeks
in a warm place; strain and bottle.




                         300.       o0e Hatafia.

    One-fourth of a pound of fresh aromatic roses (leaves only)
are shaken in a vessel with one pint of lukewarm water; cover
well, and place aside for two days, then filter the water, and

press the roses gently; mix the rose-water with the same quan-
tity of kirschwasser; add to each quart
                                          of the mixture half a

pound of refined sugar, a few coriander-kernels, and a little fine
cinnamon; let the whole soak in the sun a fortnight, add some
cochineal tincture for coloring, filter and bottle.
204                LIQUORS AND RATAFIAS.


                          301. Rosoglto.

    It is the name of several fine cordials, imported from Italy;

they are prepared of orange-flowers, or other flowers and fruits,
spices, etc., and exported in straw bottles from Turin, Naples,
Venice, Bologna, Udine and Trieste.
    An imitation of such a rosoglio is made as follows: clear and
refine four pounds of sugar in one and a fourth quarts of water;
mix two quarts of best alcohol of 83, eight drops of rose es-
sence, two drops of cinnamon essence, two drops of lemon es-
sence, two drops of Portugal essence, a few drops of cochineal
tincture to color, with the sugar syrup; let it stand four weeks in
a large bottle; filter and fill into smaller bottles.



                            302. Inm.

   Genuine rum is a very fine liquor; it is manufactured in the
West Indies out of the juice of the sugar cane, and the relics of
the sugar production, as molasses and syrup: it is used all over
the world for punches, grogs, teas, etc. The best rum is that of
Jamaica, but the brands of St. Croix, British Guiana, Barbadoes,
Antigua, and others, although they are inferior to the Jamaica
rum, are very palatable. The quality of rum is best known
from its aroma, its pleasing taste, and its alcohol which must
amount to 58 to 66 Tralles; the best and simplest proof is,
when rum is diluted in hot water or tea; then the fineness of
the aroma is developed, or by rubbing a few drops between the
hands.


                       303.    Hum Ciquor.

   Peel the rind of two or three bitter oranges very thin;
let soak for two days in one pint of cold water, filter,
                                                     and refine
two pounds of sugar in it; add one pint of cleared juice of the
oranges, and one and a half quarts of old Jamaica rum; filter
the liquor, bottle, and keep it for future use.
                   LIQUORS AND RATAFIAS.                           205



                     304. Saffron Ctquor.

   In a big, well-corked jug half an ounce of best saffron, one-
fourth of a pound of pulverized sugar, half an ounce of broken
cinnamon, half an ounce of cloves, half an ounce of Jamaica
pepper, half an ounce of nutmeg (cloves, pepper, and nutmeg
roughly pulverized), one ounce of sweet almonds, one-fourth of
an ounce of bitter ones (both skinned and mashed with a little
alcohol), one ounce of caraway, are infused in three-fourths of a
quart of water and as much of the best brandy, for a fortnight;
strain until perfectly clear, bottle, cork and seal; let them lie in
the cellar    the longer, the better.


                     305. Stomacl) <00ence.

    One and a half pounds of cortex Chinee, six ounces of curagao
peel, one ounce of flores Cassice are infused in four quarts of
cognac from two to three weeks; filter the fluid, sweeten with
two pounds of refined sugar, and bottle. (The sweetening may
be omitted.)

                   306. Stratuberrg Ctquor.

   Fill into a large glass jar one pound of fresh strawberries,
half a pound of white rock-candy (pulverized), and one and a
half quarts of cognac; cork and seal well; let it stand in the sun
for five weeks;   shake daily, then strain the liquor through blot-
ting-paper, and bottle.



                 307.   Srueet   Calamus Ctquor.

    Infuse four ounces of dried, thinly cut sweet calamus, and a
little over an ounce of cut angelica in two and one-half quarts
of cognac, in a well-corked, large bottle, for four weeks, in a
rather warm place; clear and refine two pounds of lump-sugar
"in one and a half quarts of water;     mix it with the liquor, filter,
and bottle.
206               LIQUORS AND RATAFIAS.


                    308. Manilla Ctquor.
    Infuse two and a half sticks of vanilla in four quarts of brandy
a fortnight; refine two pounds of sugar in four quarts of water
to syrup, add the liquor; mix well over a slow fire, filter, and
bottle.
                         309.
   Cut four sticks of vanilla into very small pieces, put them in
a bottle with three quarts of best brandy; let infuse a fortnight,
shake daily, add two pounds of refined sugar, let the liquor stand
a few days, color slightly red with cochineal-tincture, and bottle.


                         310.

   An Italian cordial. One-fourth of an ounce of angelica seeds,
three-fourths of an ounce of coriander, one-fourth of an ounce of
fennel, one-fourth ofan ounce of anise, the juice and the thin
peel of two lemons, and one pound of sugar are infused in two
quarts of brandy five or six days, in a warm place; filter and
bottle.
                     311. tUalmtt Ciquor.

   One pound of green walnuts gathered at the end of June or
beginning of July, is cut in small pieces, and in a jug or a glass
jar infused in two and a half quarts of fine brandy with one-
eighth ounce of pulverized cinnamon, and as much of cloves,
from six to eight weeks; cork well, and shake daily. After this
time filter the infusion, add syrup of one pound of sugar and
one quart of water: filter again and bottle.

                         312.
   Infuse one pound of cut green walnuts in two quarts of fine
cognac, in the sun, a fortnight;   filter into another bottle, add

half an ounce of cinnamon, and one-fourth of an ounce of
roughly pulverized cloves; let it stand another week in the sun;
add a syrup of three-fourths of a pound of sugar and one
pint of water; mix well, filter, and bottle; after half a year it is
ready for use.
                    LIQUORS AND RATAFIAS.                     2O/



                      313. tlllisb      Corbtol.

   A  liquor which is made in English families, when the white
currants are getting perfectly ripe.
   Infuse the rind of a thinly peeled lemon, half a pint of white
currants (a little mashed), and a small piece of ginger in a quart
of whiskey, twenty-four hours, in a warm place; filter, sweeten
with half a pound of refined sugar, filter again, and bottle.



                314.        Ufc-fitrr     femue.
   A quantity of very ripe, wild cherries are pressed through an
earthen sieve with a wooden spoon, so that only the pits remain;
pulverize them with a few bitter almonds; mix them with the
cherry mash, and let the mixture stand two days in a cool place.
After this time squeeze the juice thoroughly, let it stand for an-
other day, strain carefully through flannel, boil it for a few
seconds with lump-sugar one pound to one quart of juice filter
again, and after cooling, bottle well and seal, and keep the bot-
tles in a cool place.
    A few spoonfuls of this extract flavor a bottle of claret or a
bowl exceedingly well.


                          315. tUI)i0kes.
                                                                   "
   It derives its   name from the obsolete Irish word " Usquebah
   "                 "
or     Usquebaugh (water of life). Another whiskey in Scotland
is called  "Mountain Dew." It is made from barley, but often
other grains are substituted for it.



             316. Mead] anb 3toj)U Branbu0.

   They are domestic products from the juice of the correspond-
ing fruits, and chiefly made in Maryland and New Jersey. As
they are sold at high prices much adulteration is going on in
them.
ftondjea.
                         317. 2UmriroL

    Boil one bottle of claret with one-half pound of sugar, a stick
of cinnamon, and a piece of vanilla for a quarter of an hour; add
the yolks of six eggs that have first been beaten in a tumbler of
cold wine; beat the drink into foam over the fire, and serve it in
cups.
                        318. aie /lip.

   This is a kind of warm beer which is very fashionable in Eng-
land during the winter, and it is taken by sportsmen early in the
morning before starting for the hunt. The recipe follows: one
and a half quarts of ale, <a spoonful of sugar, a piece of mace, half
a dozen of cloves, and a small piece of butter, and let it boil;
then beat the white of one egg with the yolks of two or three
eggs in a spoonful of cold ale, add it to the boiling ale, and pour
the whole swiftly from one vessel into another for a few minutes,
then serve.
                       319. ale

   Take one quart of Burton ale, one glass of Niersteiner, a
wineglassful of brandy, a wineglassful of capillaire syrup, the
juice of a lemon, a piece of lemon-peel; grate a little nutmeg,
add a piece of toast; mix everything well; let it stand cold for
from two to three hours; strain, and serve.


               320.    ftlltaittt ire


   Take the yolks of eight eggs, stir with one pound of pulver-
ized sugar and the juice of two oranges; heat two bottles of claret
with a stick of vanilla to the boiling-point; add the wine under
continuous beating to the eggs and sugar, and pour the foamy
drink into champagne glasses.
212                         PUNCHES.


                         321.
   Boil one bottle of Burgundy with one pound of lump-sugar,
half a stick of cinnamon, a little bit of mace and coriander, and
two bay-leaves; light with a burning paper, and let it burn until
it goes out by itself; then fill it into
                                         glasses, and drink it warm.


                   322. American |Jtmd).
   Rub the peel of six lemons on one pound of sugar; squeeze
the juice of the lemons and that of six oranges on it; remove
the seeds carefully; add four pounds of loaf-sugar, and five cloves
and two leaves of mace tied up in a piece of linen, likewise two
quarts of water; refine the sugar to syrup; skim well, fill into bot-
tles, and keep for the punch.    Now mix three-fourths of a quart
of green tea, one pint of cognac, one quart of old Jamaica rum,
one bottle of champagne, and a cup of chartreuse well sweetened
to taste with the syrup, pour it into a punch-bowl, add a big
lump of ice, three oranges cut in slices, and three lemons with-
out the seeds; let the beverage stand for two hours, stir repeat-
edly, and serve.
                     323. 2lnana0         |3uncl).

   Dissolve two and one-half pounds of lump-sugar in three
quarts of boiling water, add three bottles of Rhine wine, one bot-
tle of old Jamaica rum, and two bottles of champagne; let it
stand on a warm stove for an hour, and add finally the juice of
a mashed ananas (pineapple). Keep the vessel well covered or
the aroma will escape.

           324. Ananas          JJtmcl)   d T^lmmque.
                     (FOR TEN PERSONS.)
   Peel and cut four pineapples of medium size, put the slices
with one pound of pulverized sugar in a bowl, and let it stand
well covered on a cool place, until the sugar has gone entirely
into the slices; add one pint of old Jamaica rum, one pint of
best brandy, one gill of curagao, and the juice of four lemons;
place a big piece of ice in the middle of the bowl; add four bot-
tles of champagne,   and serve in champagne glasses.
                           PUNCHES.                             213


                    325. 2trroxk Jo am.
   Mix one quart of sour cream with half a pint of arrack, and
four ounces of lump-sugar; beat it to foam, and serve it in glasses.


                    326. Arrack JJund).
   Rub the peel of three or four lemons on twelve ounces of loaf-
sugar, break the sugar, and dissolve it in one quart of strong,
boiling tea; add the juice of six or eight lemons, and a pint of
good arrack.
                          327.
   Cut six unpeeled lemons into thin slices; remove their seeds;
infuse them in one pint of arrack six hours; take them out care-

fully with a fork without squeezing them, then dissolve one pound
of lump-sugar in three pints of boiling water, add the arrack,
let the beverage get cool, and serve in small glasses,



                      328.    Br       fluncl).

    Boil one quart of beer with one-fourth of a   pound of lump-
sugar  and  a stick of cinnamon;    beat four eggs into foam, and
mix it with a wineglassful of old Jamaica rum; take the beer from
the fire and add to it the mixture while continually stirring it;
serve in punch glasses.


                    329. Beer
  Stir two whole eggs in a glass of wine;    pour this into a pint of
beer;  add a teaspoonful of sugar, a stick of cinnamon, and a
piece of lemon-peel; beat the whole over a fire to foam, fill it
into cups, and serve.

                       330.      1m*   (S&rog.

   Beat four eggs, pour them into one quart of beer, add one-
fourth of a pound of sugar, a little cinnamon and lemon-peel;
put all over a fast fire, and beat continually, until it begins to
rise,without letting it boil; take it from the fire, continue beat-
ing for a few minutes, and fill into glasses.
214                         PUNCHES.


               331.    Cfnglisl)    33rcmbg JJund).

   Put the rind of two lemons in a pot with a stick of cinnamon,
three-fourths of a pound of lump-sugar, some mace, and three
cloves to one-half of a pint of water; let it boil slowly for ten
minutes, strain it. add one bottle of brandy and the juice of the
two lemons, pour into a tureen, light it, and let it burn for five
minutes before filling the punch into glasses.



                      332. Bristol      |)uncl).


   To each quart of boiling water take the juice of one and a
half lemons, the rind of half a lemon, three gills of rum, and

sugar to taste. Put sugar, juice and peel in a bowl, pour over it
enough water to dissolve the sugar, and to extract the aroma;
after half an hour remove the peel, and add water and rum.




                      333. Burning       |Junct).


   A bottle of claret, one and a half bottles of Rhine wine, one
pound of sugar, and a little over one pint of rum are heated
nearly to the boiling-point; take it from the fire before
                                                          it boils;


light with burning paper, and when the flame goes
                                                    out add some
hot water or tea, if you desire.




                334.    (fnglial)   Btmub |3uncl).

      Rub the rind of three lemons lightly on one pound of sugar,
put the sugar in an earthen pot, and pour over it one quart
                                                                 of

rum and one quart of claret;stir all well over a fire, until it be-

gins to boil and the sugar is dissolved; add
                                             one quart of boiling
water, and the juice of three lemons. This punch may be taken
warm or cold.
                           PUNCHES.                           215



                  335. Camptdjdlo             $itml).

    Heat slowly the yolks of twelve eggs with two pounds of lump-
sugar on which you have rubbed off the rind of two oranges,
their juice and that of three lemons, and three bottles of claret;
beat it to foam until it begins to boil; then add carefully a bot-
tle of old Jamaica rum, and serve at once.




                  336.   (Iljampagitt JJutuI).

   Boil one and one-half pounds of lump-sugar in three pints of
water, add the juice of five lemons, half a bottle of arrack, and
one bottle of champagne; heat it sufficiently, and serve


                  337. Champagne                reme.

   Beat half a pound of pulverized sugar with the yolks of eight
eggs and five whole eggs to the form of frozen snow; add, while
continually beating, the rind of an orange, rubbed off on sugar,
and gradually a quart-bottle of champagne; heat over a slow fire,
while continually beating, and serve warm.


                        338.        l)e   OTijat.

   Boil a large pot of mixed tea; a little sugar in the bottom of
a hot cup, two-thirds full of tea; fill the rest with Burgundy,
and serve. If desired, add a little vanilla to the tea.


                 339.     nglisl)     (Ularet       fltmdj.

   Boil, in half a pint of water, half a pound of lump-sugar with
one-fifth of   an ounce of cinnamon, one-tenth of an ounce of
pulverized ginger, and as many pulverized cloves, and the thinly
peeled rind of an orange, to syrup; skim this with a wooden
spoon, and add two bottles of claret; take the vessel from the
fire before the wine begins to boil.
2l6                         PUNCHES.


                 340. Colb Claret         }j)uncl).


   One bottle of claret, half a pint of sherry, half a wineglassful
of maraschino, the rind of a lemon, one-quarter of a pound of

pulverized sugar, and a sprig of borage; let this all stand for an
hour, strain the punch through a sieve, add a piece of ice and a
bottle of Seltzer.
   Instead of the rind of the lemon and the borage, you may
add fresh raspberries and cut peaches, when these fruits are in
season.

                     341. Claret JJtmd).

    Pour two bottles of claret into an enameled pot, squeeze the
juice of three lemons, add one pound of sugar; heat the wine to
the boiling-point without letting it boil, take it from the fire, and
add half a bottle of best arrack.


                 342. Confe00ion of           ot>e.


   Infuse half an ounce of fine black tea in half a pint of boil-
ing water for five minutes; decant and pour it into a tureen;
rub the rind of a lemon on three pounds of lump-sugar, refine
in one pint of boiling water; skim well; add a piece of vanilla,
cut into small pieces, and half an ounce of dried orange-flowers;
take the sugar from the fire, and leave vanilla and orange-flowers
one hour in it; then strain through a sieve into a tureen. Now
add a wineglassful of maraschino, the juice of five oranges, two
bottles of Rhine wine, two bottles of Medoc, one bottle of
Madeira, and one bottle of arrack; let the mixture get very hot,
without boiling, and serve it hot; it is still better when very cold.



                     343. Crambamlmli.

   Pour one bottle of arrack into a pot, light the fluid with
burning paper, and melt one pound of lump-sugar over this
flame, so as to make the melting sugar drop into the fluid.
                            PUNCHES.                           217



r           344. (Bream       |)i:nct)   a I'SUncriquc.

   Beat the yolks of six eggs with one pound of powdered sugar;
add  half a bottle of fine rum or arrack; beat one and a half

quarts of milk and the whites of the six eggs to a consistent
foam; mix both ingredients together, and beat again.
    (This drink is very palatable, especially for ladies.)



                    345. Currant         Sljritb.


   It is a kind of punch essence which, in combination with cold
or hot water, furnishes a very delicious drink.
    Two quarts of currants are put in a pot which is placed in a
larger one partly filled with water; let it slowly boil until the
berries burst and the juice flows out; skim well and filter; to
each pint of juice take three-fourths pound of sugar; dissolve it
well,and add one quart of old Jamaica rum; filter the mixture
again, bottle, and seal.



                        346. <gg          rog.


    Boil*one quart of water with half a pound of sugar; beat the
yolks of five eggs in one pint of St. Croix rum, and add this, while
continually stirring, to the boiling water.



                       347. <gg

    Six eggs, and the yolks of ten eggs are well stirred in a new
enameled pot, with one and one-fourth pounds of powdered
sugar; add, while continually stirring, one bottle of Rhine wine
and one quart of cold water; put over a coal-fire, and beat
until it boils; add the juice of two oranges and of two lemons,
and half a bottle of arrack; beat again until boiling, strain
through a sieve, and serve.
218                              PUNCHES.


                          348.      gg Ctquor.

   Put in a tureen the yolks of twelve fresh eggs, one pound of
pulverized sugar, a small teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon,
and a little grated nutmeg; place the tureen on ice; beat the
yolks to foam, and add, while beating, one pint of kirschwasser
and three pints of sweet cream; beat the mixture for another
quarter of an hour, strain through a sieve, and serve in glasses.



                     349. #gg ftlilk Jtondj.

   Infuse a stick of vanilla in one quart of boiling milk; strain
the milk, add six ounces of sugar and one quart of sweet cream:
let this boil up once more; stir into it the yolks of five or six eggs;
let the fluid get cool,   and add one pint of Santa Cruz rum.



                    350.

    Beat well the yolks of four eggs in a tureen with six ounces
of  powdered sugar; add gradually one pint of fine brandy,
one-fifth of a pint of Santa Cruz rum, one pony of maraschino,
and two quarts of milk; beat the whites of the eggs till they as-
sume a light, snowy appearance, and sweeten with a little vanilla
or lemon sugar; let the whites float on top of the mixture; put
it   on ice, and serve cold.



                          351.

      Take one bottle of Rhine wine, the juice of two lemons and
their peel rubbed    on six ounces of lump-sugar, ten eggs, and
nine ounces of pulverized sugar;     stir all well;   place the pot in a
vessel partly filled with boiling water, beat the mixture to a thick
foam, and add finally half a pint of warmed arrack.
                             PUNCHES.                             219


                   352.
   Pour three-fourths of a quart of boiling water on one ounce of
fine black tea; let it stand for about six minutes; strain the tea,
sweeten with four ounces of sugar, add the well-beaten yolks of
five eggs, and stir thoroughly; fill it into a freezing-can, and
turn it in the ice-cream freezer for ten minutes; add the juice of
two lemons and two oranges, and turn again for a quarter of an
hour; three-quarters of an hour before serving the punch begin
anew to turn and stir the whole mixture, so as to make it flowing
and foamy. Finally beat the whites of the five eggs to foam;
mix it with one-fourth pound of sugar, add it to the punch, and
half a pint of Santa Cruz rum, and serve in glasses.


                    353. Colb
   The yolks of seven fresh eggs are stirred with two ounces of
powdered sugar and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice add this to two
                                                     ;




quarts of cold Rhine wine while briskly and continually stirring.


                        354. (na ttJine.
    One pint of white wine, the yolks of two fresh eggs, two
ounces of pulverized sugar, are well mixed, and beaten over fire
until the wine rises.

                         355.    ftnotljer.

   Boil one pint of Rhine wine, half a pint of water, and two
ounces of sugar; meanwhile stir the yolks of two eggs in two
tablespoonfuls of cold water; add the boiling wine while contin-
ually beating or stirring, and serve in glasses.


                    356.     (Inslial)   JJtmclj.

   Rub the rind of two large lemons on half a pound of sugar;
put it in a tureen, squeeze the juice of the fruit on it, pour one
quart of boiling water over it; stir all well; add three gills of rum,
half a pint of best brandy; grate a little nutmeg, heat it over a
coal fire, but do not let it boil, and fill into glasses.
22O                         PUNCHES.


                          357.
    Rub the rind of two lemons, and of one bitter orange on seven
ounces of sugar; put it in a tureen, squeeze the juice of the
fruit over it, add one and a half
                                  pints of boiling water, stir until
the sugar is dissolved, add one pint of rum, half a pint of
                                                            brandy,
and two tablespoonfuls of noyeau, and serve in glasses.


                          358. 2lno%r.
   One ounce of tea is steeped in two quarts of boiling water;
strain the tea over three-fourths pound of lump-sugar, on which
the rind of four or five bitter oranges has been rubbed off; add
a bottle of Santa Cruz rum, and serve.


                          359.    Jktsci).

   Rub the rind of three lemons on twelve ounces of lump-sugar,
add two quarts of boiling water, and three quarts of hot claret,
and serve as soon as the sugar is dissolved.


                           360.    Jltp.

    One and a half quarts of beer are heated to boiling, with a
stick of cinnamon, a small piece of ginger, two or three cloves,
and some lemon-peel meanwhile mix the yolks of four eggs with
                      ;



a large wineglassful of rum or arrack, two or three tablespoonfuls
of pulverized sugar, and a small spoonful of corn-starch add this,
                                                         ;



while continually stirring, to the beer; pour it a few times from
one vessel into another, strain through a sieve, and serve in cups.


                      361. Jruit     Jtoncl).

   Boil three quarts of water with twelve ounces of sugar, and
the juice of two or three lemons: mix this in a tureen with one
quart of Santa Cruz   rum or arrack, and one quart of raspberry
or cherry syrup.
                            PUNCHES.                           221



                   362. George IV.         fluncl).

    On seven ounces of sugar rub the peel of two lemons, and of
two bitter oranges; put in a tureen with the juice of the fruits;
let it stand for half an hour; add one cup of boiling water, and
stir until the sugar is dissolved. Add one pint of green tea, half
a pint of pineapple syrup, a wineglassful of maraschino, four
tablespoonfuls of the best arrack, one pint of brandy, and a bot-
tle of champagne;    mix all, put on ice, and serve.


                   363. (Btrman       <m |Juncl).
    Heat one quart of white beer with a little stick of cinnamon,
add a spoonful of corn-starch dissolved in wine; stir rapidly;
add half a bottle of Rhine wine, six ounces of sugar, and the juice
of half a lemon heat all once more to the boiling-point; beat the
               ;




yolks of four eggs with it; sweeten with one pound of sugar on
which you have previously rubbed off the rind of half a lemon;
add a pony of maraschino, and serve in cups.


                         364.

   Heat two quarts of white beer, beat in it the yolks of six eggs;
add three-fourths pound of sugar, on which you have rubbed
the rind of half a lemon, and half a bottle of white wine; heat the
mixture again, while continually beating, but do not let it boil,
add half a wineglassful of maraschino, and the juice of a lemon;
serve very foamy in cups.


                       365.       in IJund).

    Peel the rind of a large lemon very thin, put it with a table-
spoonful of the juice of a lemon in a tureen, add two tablespoon-
fuls of powdered sugar, and one pint of cold water, and let it
stand for half an hour; afterward add half a pint of the best
Holland gin, a wineglassful of maraschino, three or four lumps of
ice,two bottles of plain soda, and serve at once.
222                          PUNCHES.


                         366.       iroflce.


   Boil two bottles of Medoc with one pound of lump-sugar,
one stick of cinnamon, and some cloves for a few minutes



                     367.      la0gou) |Jtmcl).

   Put half a pound of pulverized sugar, and the rind of half a
thinly peeled lemon with the juice of two large lemons in a
tureen, add a bottle of old Jamaica rum, and five quarts of boil-
ing water; stir well, and serve in glasses.



                             368.        roj.

   Take a quart of boiling tea with half a pound of lump-sugar,
and add one pint of Santa Cruz rum or arrack.


                      369.     0ll<mir    fluncl).

   Strain the juice of three or four fine lemons; mix it with one
pound of powdered      sugar, and one bottle of fine Holland gin;
                covered in a warm place until the sugar is dis-
let it stand well

solved;   add two and a half quarts of boiling water, stir all
thoroughly and serve.


                    370. Qong Kong JJtmclj.

   A pound of loaf-sugar in a large enameled pot, the jaice of
six peeled lemons, the juice of three peeled oranges, one quart
of cold water, one bottle of Jamaica rum, half a pint of brandy,
one quart bottle of Burgundy; put this over a slow fire, and stir
until boiling, then boil about one gallon of mixed tea; mix this
all together   hot and serve. If desired, beat up the whites of
three eggs to the form of snow, and use a little of this for the
top of each portion. If not sweet enough add sugar to taste.
                            PUNCHES.                            223



                  371. CoRr Jjoppdpoppd.

   The yolks of four eggs and a little ground nutmeg are stirred
into half a pint of cold, sweet cream, and beaten to a thick foam;
add one gill of Santa Cruz rum, and sweeten to taste.


                   372.     fijot   jjoppdpoppel.

   One quart of sweet cream and two tablespoonfuls of powder-
ed sugar are heated to the boiling-point; into a little milk stir
the yolks of four fresh eggs, and beat all to a thick foam; finally
add half a pint of rum. Serve in glasses or cups.
   Instead of cream you may use boiling water or tea.



                       373. $ot        ttHne.

    Heat one quart of good claret with six ounces of lump-sugar,
a stick of cinnamon, six cloves, and the rind of a thinly peeled
lemon; let it boil for a moment; strain and serve in glasses.


                           374.

   Boil the rind of a lemon, one-fourth ounce of stick cinnamon,
and eight cloves in one pint of water very slowly for half an
hour; add two bottles of claret; sweeten all with one pound of
lump-sugar; place the well-covered pot in boiling water until
the wine boils; strain and serve.



             375. <ot tUine d la Jran{cu0e,

   Boil three bottles of   Bordeaux or Roussillon in an enameled
pot with one pound of sugar, one-third ounce of stick cinnamon,
two or three leaves of mace, and six bay-leaves; take it from the
fire, and light it with a burning paper; let it burn for three min-

utes, strain, and serve in glasses.
224                         PUNCHES.


                    376. Jjtmtn*'
    Two bottles of Moselle or light Rhine wine and half a bottle
of arrack punch essence are slowly heated in a well-covered enam-
eled pot; heat sufficiently, but avoid boiling;   a white, delicious
foam will be formed on top, then serve in cut glasses.


                      377.    Jctir flund).

    Refine and clear one pound of lump-sugar in one pint of water;
let the syrup get cool; add the juice of four or five lemons, and
the rind of two rubbed off on sugar; let the mixture freeze in the
ice-cream freezer, and add then, while continually turning, a
bottle ofRhine wine or champagne, half a pint of Santa Cruz
rum or arrack, and half a pony of maraschino; serve the thickly
flowing punch in glasses.


                   378. Imperial $tmcl).
    Peel one pineapple and four oranges; cut the first into small
slices,and separate the oranges into pieces; put all in a tureen;
then boil in a quart of water two sticks of cinnamon and a stick
of vanilla, cut into small pieces; strain the water through a sieve
into the tureen; rub the rind of a lemon on one and a half pounds
of lump-sugar, put the sugar into the water, and squeeze the
juice of three lemons; cover well; let it get cool, place it on ice,
add a bottle of Rhine wine, one quart of fine rum, and, shortly
before serving, a bottle of champagne and half a bottle of Seltzer.


                     379. CoMe0'       J)uncl).

   Put in a tureen the thinly peeled rind and the juice of three
blood-oranges, the juice of four lemons with one quart of water;
cover, and let it stand for three hours; strain the fluid; add one
quart of purified sugar syrup, one quart of brandy, one pint of
Santa Cruz rum, and the decoction of half an ounce of stick
cinnamon in one and a half quarts of boiling water; heat the
punch by placing the tureen in a larger vessel partly          filled
with water, and serve in glasses.
                                 PUNCHES.                            225



                         380. Cemon

    Refine and clear one pound of lump-sugar in one pint of water,
and boil it with the rind of a thinly peeled lemon and the juice
of three lemons to the consistency of syrup; let it get cool; add
three bottles of Rhine wine, three gills of arrack, one pint of light
tea; strain through flannel; heat it without boiling, and serve.




                              381.   ftnotljer.


   Rub the rind of two lemons on half a pound of sugar, add a
decoction of one and a half quarts of water and half an ounce of
fine tea;squeeze the juice of four lemons; strain;         add one pint
of old Jamaica rum; heat it once more, and serve.




                      382. fHalimjemo         |Juncl).


   Clear and refine one pound of sugar in one quart of water;
boil one pound of barberries ripe and well-cleaned after you
have mashed them with a wooden spoon, in the refined sugar
syrup; add a bottle of claret, press all through a sieve; add a bot-
tle of Santa Cruz rum, and some
                                     raspberry syrup, and you may
serve the punch hot or cold.



                      383.    lilcmtjattan $uncl).

                              (HOT OR COLD.)
    Take a large enameled pot, the juice of six lemons, the juice
of two oranges, a pound of sugar, two quarts of cold water, two
quarts of claret, two or three sticks of cinnamon, two dozen
cloves, half a pint of Jamaica rum or brandy; place this over a
slow fire until boiling; strain carefully before serving.      You may
serve it hot;   if   not, you may bottle it, and it will keep for several
days.
     15
226                         PUNCHES.


                   384. maraschino          Jtonclj.

   Three to four bottles of Rhine wine and half a bottle of arrack
are mixed with half a bottle of maraschino di Zara       and two
pounds of cleaned and refined sugar cold place the punch for
                                               ;



a couple of hours on ice, and add a bottle of champagne just
before serving.

                     385.    fflaitrororiato.

   Heat one and a half quarts of sweet cream with a piece of
vanilla and half a pound of sugar to the boiling-point; let it then

steep for a while; strain the cream through a sieve; beat it with
the yolks of six or eight eggs; add enough fine arrack or maras-
chino to taste.

                  386. ftteckkntmrg         JJuncl).

   Rub the peel of two lemons on two pounds of sugar; add one
and a half quarts of good tea, four bottles of claret, one bottle
of French white wine, and one bottle of brandy; let everything
get hot over a slow fire; stir well, and serve.


                         387.

   Two pounds of sugar on which two lemons are rubbed off,
four bottles of Bordeaux, one bottle of port wine, one bottle of
brandy, and half a bottle of Madeira.


                  388.   tfngltsl) fltilk    fltmcl).

   Rub the peel of three fine lemons on one pound of lump-
sugar; put it in a tureen, and squeeze the juice of
                                                    the fruit over
it; grate half a nutmeg; add a bottle of Jamaica rum; mix all
thoroughly, and let it stand well covered over night. Then add
one quart of boiling water, and one quart of boiling milk; let the
mixture stand covered two hours; filter through a canton flan-
nel bag, in which you placed a piece of blotting-paper, until the
punch is absolutely clear, and drink it cold.
                                       PUNCHES.                            227


                                 389.     ftnotljer.

   Rub the peel of two lemons on one and a half pounds of lump-
sugar;  put this in a tureen; add gradually the juice of the two
lemons, a quart of hot milk, one quart of hot water, some pieces
of vanilla, cut into small pieces, a little grated nutmeg, and a
bottle of good arrack, and let the well-covered tureen stand over
night. The following morning you filter the thick fluid through
a flannel bag, until it gets clear; fill into bottles, and serve the
punch cold   ;
                 it   may be kept as long as you please.

                                 390.     ftnotfjer.

   In a bottle of fine           rum put the thinly peeled rind of three
oranges and three lemons; cork the bottle well, and let the bot-
tle stand two days. After this rub the rind of six lemons on two

pounds of loaf-sugar, squeeze their juice and that of the for-
merly peeled lemons and oranges over the sugar; add two quarts
of boiling water, one and a half quarts of boiling milk, and half
a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, and mix all well until the sugar
is dissolved.     Now add the rum; strain the punch until it is per-
fectly clear;    fill   into bottles, and cork them very well.
   Such a milk-punch    is a beverage refreshing and harmless,

which, in summer especially, for excursions, picnics, etc., can-
not be too highly appreciated.


                        391. JmlanJr JflUk             |)itncl).

   This punch is prepared like our first " English Milk Punch;"
only take Santa Cruz rum instead of Jamaica rum, and leave the
nutmeg out.
                        392.     ill   arm Jffilk
   A  quart of fresh milk is slowly heated to boiling with the thin
peel of a small lemon then strain the milk, beat it with the yolks
                             ;



of four eggs, stirred up beforehand in cold milk; add a wineglass-
ful of brandy, and two wineglassfuls of rum;               beat all over a slow
fire to foam,     and fill into glasses.
228                           PUNCHES.


              393. JCectar Jhtncl) a l'2lmmqttt.
                           (FOR BOTTLING.)
   Infuse the rind of fifteen thinly peeled lemons forty-eight
hours in one and a half pints of rum; filter; add two quarts of
cold water and three pints of rum, the juice of the lemons, a
grated nutmeg, and two and a half quarts of boiling milk; cover
well, let stand for twenty-four hours, and sweeten with three
pounds of sugar; strain through a flannel bag, until the punch
is   perfectly clear, and bottle.

                            394.
   This beverage is of English origin, and there very highly esti-
mated; it derives its name from its inventor, the English Colonel
Negus.
    Put the rind of half a lemon or orange in a tureen, add eight
ounces of sugar, one pint of port wine, the fourth part of a small
nutmeg grated; infuse this for an hour; strain; add one quart
of boiling water, and the drink is ready for use.


                           395.
      In other countries they are used to take lighter wines.   The
recipe follows:   Put two bottles of claret, two sticks of cinnamon,
six cloves, a little pulverized cardamom, a little grated nutmeg,
and half a pound of sugar, on which you have previously rubbed
the rind of a lemon, on a slow fire; cover well, and heat to the
boiling-point; strain through a hair-sieve; add one pint of
                                                                boil-

ing water, and the juice of one and a half lemons, and serve
                                                                   in

                 that  are first warmed.
strong glasses,

                       396. Norfolk        flntul).

   Infuse the rind of fifteen lemons and of as many oranges,
thinly peeled, in two quarts of brandy or
                                          rum for forty-eight
hours;    filter the infusion, and   add it to the cold syrup of two
pounds of sugar and two and a half quarts of water; squeeze the
                                          all into a great stone jug,
juice of the lemons and oranges; pour
tie with a bladder, and let it stand for from six to eight weeks be-
fore using.
                           PUNCHES.                             229


                 397. JTurembflrj          |lutul).

   Rub lightly the peel of an orange on three-fourths pound of
sugar; squeeze the juice of two oranges on it; pour
                                                      one quart of
boiling water  over it; add a small pint of good old arrack, and a
bottle of old Bordeaux hot, but not boiling; mix all well, and
serve.
                   398.       conge     Jhwd).
   Rub the peel of three oranges on sugar;      place the sugar in a
pot;  add the juice of six oranges and two lemons, one pound of
lump-sugar, one bottle of white wine, one quart of water; let all
boil; pour it into a bowl, and add two bottles of white wine, and
one and a half pints of arrack or rum.

              399. Jinnee of tUaUa             JJuncI).
                              (COLD.)
   In a small bowl put the thinly peeled and cut rind of half a
lemon, and two and a half ounces of granulated sugar; add one-
fourth quart of boiling water; let it stand for a quarter of an
hour; add a bottle of champagne, and a gill of the best arrack;
mix the fluids well, and place the bowl on ice one or two hours.

                 400.    Ijport   tUine JJuuel).

   A bottle of claret, a bottle of Rhine wine, and a bottle of port
wine are heated with two pounds of sugar, until the sugar is dis-
solved; do not let it boil; meanwhile squeeze the juice of four
lemons into a tureen, add half a bottle of fine arrack and the
sweet mixture; stir well, and serve.

                 401. |hmrl{ a        la   Stable.

    Place on the stove a large enameled pot, in which, before,
water had been boiling; lay on it two flat iron bars, and place on
these two pounds of lump-sugar; pour over the sugar a bottle of
old Jamaica rum, and light it carefully with a burning paper, to
let the melting sugar flow into the pot; when the flame goes out

by itself, add three bottles of Rhine wine, and one quart of black
tea, the juice of one lemon and of one orange; let it stand cov-
ered three hours in a warm, but not hot oven.
230                            PUNCHES.


                    402. JJund) d

    Rub on three pounds of lump-sugar the rind of one orange
and one lemon; squeeze the juice of four lemons on the sugar;
boil in one and a half quarts of water, until it becomes clear;
add half a bottle of arrack, one bottle of Rhine wine, and one
bottle of Burgundy, and let the punch simmer for a while with-
out letting it boil; then serve.



                     403.    JluncI)     d la   reme.

   Dissolve four pounds of sugar in four quarts of hot water;
heat this with four quarts of arrack, the juice of eight lemons, and
a small piece of vanilla, cut in pieces, in an enameled pot to the
boiling-point; as soon as this is reached add three quarts of milk
or cream, while constantly stirring.        Take the vessel from the
fire, tie   a cloth over it, let it stand for two hours;     filter,   bottle,
and keep it for future use, as it may be preserved for a very long
time.

                   404.   |htncl)   d la Batwrmae.

   Rub the rind of three lemons on one pound of lump-sugar;
squeeze the juice of the fruit on it; add one quart of water and
two bottles of Burgundy; heat slowly to the boiling-point; filter
through canton flannel, and serve it hot.



                      405.    |)ttncl)
                                         d la JbrJr.

    Three dozen lemons are very thinly peeled           ;   the rind is put
in an enameled pot, three pounds of sugar added, and all is stir-
red for about half an hour; add five quarts of boiling water; stir
until the sugar is dissolved; add to each three quarts one pint of
the best Jamaica rum and one pint of brandy; bottle the punch,
keep it in the cellar, and use it after the expiration of some weeks
  the later the better.
                            PUNCHES.                            231



                406.    JjJtmcl)    d la Jrancai0e.

   Put one and a half pounds of lump-sugar in a new earthen
pot, pour over it one quart of rum; light this, and let burn until
the sugar becomes brown and is melted to one-third of its orig-
inal volume;   add three-fourths quart of boiling tea, the juice of
six lemons and of six oranges; stir well, and serve at once.


                         407.       2Uwtljtr.

   Two pounds of       sugar in an earthen pot are mixed with
half a glass of water or tea, the juice of two lemons and two
oranges, and cleared and refined to syrup; add a bottle of rum,
a bottle of brandy, and tea, until the punch receives the required
mildness.   Heat, and, before serving, squeeze the juice of six
oranges through a sieve.


                 408.    |htitct)    d   la   Kfgence.

   The thinly peeled rind of two lemons and two bitter oranges
are put in a tureen with some vanilla, and as much cinnamon,
and four cloves, poured over with the boiling syrup of one
and a half pounds of sugar and three-fourths quart of water, and
placed aside for two hours. Add the purified juice of twelve
lemons, one bottle of old Jamaica rum, and half a bottle of
brandy; filter the punch through a cloth, fill into bottles, and
place the bottles on ice.


                  409. flmul) d la            lirine.


   Rub the rind of two or three lemons off on one-fourth pound
of sugar, squeeze the juice of six lemons and two oranges on it;
add a syrup of three-fourths pound of sugar and three gills of
water; after all is well mixed let it freeze in the freezing-can; mix
a cup of rum and as much brandy to the ice, likewise the thick
foam of the v/hites of three eggs, sweetened with vanilla-sugar;
leave the punch for a while in the freezing-can, and serve.
232                          PUNCHES.


                 410. JJuncI) a la Homaine.

   Rub the rind of two oranges and one lemon on one and a half
pounds of sugar; put it in a tureen, and add one pint of water;
when the sugar is properly dissolved add the juice of four oranges
and two lemons, half a bottle of Rhine wine, half a pint of arrack,
half a pint of maraschino, and a pint-bottle of champagne; place
the mixture in the freezing-can, turn continually, and let it
freeze; finally, stir the froth of the whites of five eggs, sweetened
with sugar, to it; let all freeze for a while, until it looks like thick
cream; serve in champagne glasses.


                          411. ftnotljer.

   Rub the peel of six lemons off on sugar; squeeze the juice of
the lemons and of two oranges; add half a pint of water and one
pint of sugar-syrup out of three-fourths pound of sugar and one
pint of water; stir all well, and let it freeze in the freezing-can.
Then mix the solid froth of the whites of four eggs with half a
pound of pulverized sugar; add this, with three gills of brandy, a
bottle of champagne, and a cup of green tea, to the ice; mix all

thoroughly; leave the punch for a short while in the freezing-
can, and serve in glasses.


                 412. J)uncl) d la (Knrolictme.

    The thin peel of four lemons, half an ounce of stick cinna-
mon, six cloves, two pounds of sugar, one and a half quarts of
water are heated over a slow fire until the sugar is dissolved.
Add the juice of eight lemons, two quarts of claret, one bottle
of arrack, one quart of white wine; heat it once more to the
boiling-point, and serve.


                    413. Hospberrg         |)uncl).

   Two quarts of moderately strong black tea are mixed with
one pint of raspberry-juice, and heated; then dissolve in it two
pounds of sugar; let the fluid boil for a few seconds; add one
quart of arrack de Batavia, and serve at once.
                             PUNCHES.                         233



                           414. Tlnotljer.

    Add to half a pint of raspberry syrup three and one-half pints
of boiling water, half a pint of Santa Cruz rum, and half a pint
of brandy; sweeten to taste; add a pony of maraschino;   stir well,
and serve.

                    415.   ttljine    tlUne Jtondj.

   Heat three bottles of Rhine wine nearly to boiling; add one
quart of strong tea, twelve ounces of sugar on which you have
rubbed the rind of a lemon, the juice of the lemon, and one or
two gills of fine arrack; mix all well, and serve.


                           416.      flnotljer.


   Heat very slowly six bottles of Rhine wine, three-fourths
quart of old Jamaica rum, one and three-fourths to two pounds
of sugar nearly to the boiling-point, and serve hot.



                      417. licmal

    Three pounds of lump-sugar are put in a tureen, then pour
over  it one quart of light hot tea   as soon as the sugar is per-

fectly dissolved squeeze in the juice of three lemons and three
oranges; add one pint of fine Rhine wine, as much Bordeaux,
champagne, arrack, maraschino, and pineapple syrup; mix all
very well, and place the tureen, well covered, on ice.



                       418. Ilium |lund).

    Put two pounds of sugar in a tureen; squeeze on it the juice
of five lemons, add the thin peel of two lemons, and three quarts
of boiling water.After the sugar is dissolved add a bottle of old
Jamaica rum, and a bottle of champagne, and serve cold or hot.
234                         PUNCHES.


                    419. Russian       |)itnct).

    Rub the peel of four lemons and of four oranges off on two
pounds of sugar; put it in a tureen; add the juice of the fruits,
and one and a half quarts of cold water; let the tureen stand un-
til the sugar is melted; fill all in a freezing-can, and
                                                         prepare ice-
cream of it. Then add gradually one bottle of champagne, and
half a bottle of arrack; mix all well, and serve in glasses.



                        420.

   Rub the yellow rind of four fine oranges lightly on half a
pound of loaf-sugar; pulverize; put in a kettle; squeeze the juice
of the fruit on it; add six eggs, and the yolks of four; beat them
well; add one and a half quarts of Rhine wine, and beat all over
a slow fire to a thick, boiling mass. Take the Sapazeau from
the fire, mix with a small cup of maraschino, and serve hot in
cups or glass mugs.


                      421. 0nou>-Jlake0.

   Two bottles of Moselle or Rhine wine are slowly heated with
some lemon-peel and four ounces of sugar.          Beat the whites of
four eggs with a little powdered sugar and some lemon extract
to a thick foam; with a spoon take off small snowballs from the
foam, and place them in the boiling wine; take them out again
carefully with a lifter; then stir the yolks of the eggs in a little
wine, and add it to the hot wine while continually stirring.
Pour the wine in a bowl; place the snowballs on top, and grate
a little cinnamon.


                    422. Sporting JJundj.

   A bottle of brandy, half a pint of Jamaica rum, half a pint of
peach brandy, a wineglassful of curagao, one-fourth pound of
sugar dissolved in hot water; mix all this in a bowl; add a
lump of ice, and serve.
                                PUNCHES.                        235



                         423.    0tcel |)uncl).

       Infuse a small stick of vanilla, some stick cinnamon, and two
cloves in half a pint of water on a warm place, about 200 F..,
well covered; filter into an enameled pot; add one quart of claiet,
five ounces of powdered sugar, and stir very well; make an iron
red hot, hold it in the fluid until it gets cold; stir the yolks of
six eggs in a little claret, add them, and beat all to foam over a
slow fire.
                    424. StrcuubttTg       |3uncl).

       Two quarts of fine, ripe strawberries are mashed in a stone
pot;  add one bottle of Santa Cruz rum; tie it closely, and let it
stand three days;    stir once a day; strain and squeeze through

canton flannel; now put one pound of granulated sugar in a
bowl; press the juice of two lemons thereon; pour the rum over
it, and add finally three quarts of boiling water; cover the bowl
well, and do not serve before the punch is perfectly cold.


                425. "Se*a0 Sittings" |htnd).

   Pare off the peel of four blood-oranges very thin; pour over
it alarge glass of white wine; let soak for half a day in a well-
covered tureen; strain the wine into a bowl; add two bottles of
good Bordeaux, two bottles of Rhine or Moselle wine, and two
bottles of champagne; sweeten to taste; mix all well, and serve
in glasses.

                            426.
   A bottle of white wine, as much water, and four ounces of
sugar are heated to the boiling-point; the yolks of six eggs beaten
into it to a thick foam, mixed with two wineglassfuls of arrack;
serve in glass mugs.


                  427.    Hniteir   Smnce $tmcl).
       In one and a fourth quarts of hot, strong tea dissolve one
pound of sugar; add the juice of six lemons, one pint of arrack,
and one pint of port wine; warm up, and serve.
236                          PUNCHES.


                       428.    i)in   Brulc.

   Two bottles of white wine with three-fourths pound of sugar,
on which the peel of two lemons was rubbed off, the juice of the
lemons, and a piece of cinnamon are placed over a slow fire in a
well-covered new earthen pot; just before boiling add, through
a hair-sieve, the yolks of eight or ten eggs, beaten in a little
wine; take it from the fire, and serve in glasses.



                429.    iUaeljingtcm'a |Juncl).

   The juice of six lemons in a large bowl, a pound of sugar, a
pint of Jamaica rum, a pint of brandy, one and a half pints of
black tea; add five or six bottles of champagne; mix this well;
add some sliced oranges and pineapples, one large piece of ice,
and serve.

                     430.   tUljfekeg JJuncI).

    Rub the rind of three lemons on seven ounces of sugar; put
the sugar in a tureen; add one quart of boiling water and the
juice of the fruit; this syrup is mixed with one pint or more of
old Irish whiskey.


                            431.   Ull)t3t.


    Half an ounce of Pecco tea is infused in one pint of boiling
water; pour the tea through a hair-sieve upon one pound of su-
gar; squeeze the juice of five or six lemons, and mix all with
three quarts of very good Bordeaux; heat without boiling, and
serve in glasses.
Boiuls,
                     432. 3lncma0 Barol
   Peel a fresh pineapple, cut it into slices; place that in a large
bowl, and cover with one pound of pulverized sugar; cover the
bowl well, and let it stand from twelve to twenty-four hours;
add, according to the number of guests, three, four, or more
bottles of Rhine wine; for every bottle of wine add six ounces
of lump-sugar; place on ice, and add, before serving, a bottle of

champagne.
                  433. 2lnana0 (KarMnaL
   Peel a fresh pineapple; cut it into slices; put that in a bowl,
sugar it well, pour in one bottle of Rhine wine, and let it stand
for a couple of hours; add, then, according to the number of

guests, three or four bottles of     Rhine wine; put it on ice," and
serve.

                     434. Ananas          Mep.
   Peel a ripe pineapple; cut   it    into thin slices, and place that
in a bowl; add the juice of two oranges, one gill of raspberry

syrup, one gill of maraschino, one gill of old Holland gin, one
bottle of sparkling Moselle wine, and a scoop of shaved ice; mix

thoroughly, and fill into glasses.


                      435. Tipple Bowl.
   Peel twelve good, juicy, aromatic apples; remove the seeds;
cut them into thin slices; put in a tureen thickly strewed with fine
sugar; cover the tureen well, and let it stand in a cool place
twenty-four hours; add a wineglassful of old Jamaica rum, and let
it stand again for two hours; pour three to four bottles of alight

Moselle or Rhine wine over it; put the tureen on ice for a few
hours; strain the wine through flannel, and add one bottle of
champagne.
                                239
240                            BOWLS.


                         436. Babminton.
   Peel one-half of a cucumber of medium size; cut into rather
thick slices; put them in a bowl; add six ounces of pulverized
sugar; grate a little nutmeg on top of it, and add a bottle of
claret;    put the bowl on ice, and add, after stirring, a siphon of
Seltzer.

                    437. dnlbf        Bm* Bowl.
   Infuse the peel of a lemon, a thin slice of toast, some ground
nutmeg and some pulverized ginger in a large wineglassful of
brandy; add a sprig of borage, one of pimpernel, and some
                       pour over it two quarts of porter or ale,
slices of peeled apples;
sweeten with three tablespoonfuls of sugar; cool it, and serve
with cheese, bread and butter.


                        438. Colb     Bialjojj.

   Peel a green, bitter orange very thin; put that in a new
earthen pot; infuse it in one bottle of best Bordeaux or Bur-
gundy in the well-covered pot from ten to twelve hours; strain,
and sweeten at discretion.


                      439. <ngli0l) Bishop.
                               (WARM.)
   Make slight incisions into the rind of four small, bitter or-
anges; roast them before a fire, on a grate, on both sides; place
them in an enameled pot; add two bottles of fine claret, a few
pieces of cinnamon and a fried bread-crust; cover the pot well,
and let it simmer from six to eight hours; strain the wine through
flannel, and sweeten to taste and serve.



                      440. Hussian       Bisljop.

   Peel the rind of four bitter oranges; put in a tureen and in-
fuse with three bottles of Muscat Lunel for an hour; strain the
wine through flannel; bottle, and place on ice for one or two
hours; then serve in glasses.
                               BOWLS.                         241


                         441.    fiarMnol.

   Peel four bitter oranges with a sharp knife, very carefully;
infuse the peel with four bottles of Rhine wine for ten hours;
sweeten with one and a half pounds of sugar; put it on ice;
strain and serve.

                         442.    ftnotljer.

   Take two bitter and two sweet oranges; rub the rind of them
on one and a half pounds of lump-sugar; put the sugar in a
bowl; press the juice of the two sweet oranges over it; add a
bottle of white wine; put it on ice; strain and serve.


                        443.
   Peel three small oranges; put the rind in a bowl and pour a
bottle of Moselle wine over it; strain the wine after eight hours;

press the juice of seven or eight oranges on two pounds of lump-
sugar; let the sugar melt in the first bottle of Moselle wine;
add three others and a bottle of port wine; a little ananas
syrup will increase exceedingly the taste of the bowl.


             444.    fitlerg   Botul d rSUnerique.

   Peel three or four fresh celery-roots; cut them into thin
slices;cover them in a bowl thickly with powdered sugar; in-
fuse with half a bottle of brandy, arrack, or rum, well cover-
ed, for twelve  hours; strain, and add four bottles of Rhine
wine and one bottle of champagne; put it for two hours on ice,
and add, before serving, a scoop of fine ice.


                 445.     ngU0lj fitter BowL

   Make an extract of a spoonful of green tea in a half-pint of
                    it stand for fifteen minutes; pour it into a
boiling water; let
bowl; add six ounces of lump-sugar, one bottle of cider, two
wineglassfuls of brandy, half a pint of cold water, a couple of
fresh cucumber slices, some leaves of borage, and two leaves of
Roman sage, and place the bowl on ice.
242                           BOWLS.


                          446.
   Peel a lemon or orange very thin; infuse the rind in a cup
of boiling water in a bowl;  add some borage-leaves, some cu-
cumber slices, some sprigs of balm, half a pound of sugar, one
pint of sherry, Madeira or Malaga (or, instead of this, two wine-
glassfuls of brandy), and two bottles of cider; put the bowl on
ice and serve.

                  447.     Camane JJorol.
   To one pound of lump-sugar add two bottles of Moselle wine,
one bottle of Burgundy and two bottles of champagne cover  ;



the bowl well and put it on ice.


                     448. Sljerrg Barol.
   The rind of six lemons is infused four hours in one-fourth
quart of boiling water; pour this water in a bowl; add the juice
of two lemons, one pint of sherry, three gills of old Jamaica
rum, three gills of brandy, one pound of lump-sugar, three pints
of cold water, and    one pint of boiling milk; mix everything
thoroughly; strain   itthrough flannel, and put it for four hours
on ice.
                449. <nglt01) Claret Boiol.

    Peel an orange and cut it in slices, likewise half a cucumber;
add a few sprigs of borage and balm, two or three tablespoonfuls
of pulverized sugar, a wineglassful of brandy, or two glasses of
sherry, two bottles of claret, and a bottle of Seltzer; stir every-
thing well, put it two hours on ice, and strain before serving.


                 450.       nglisl)
                                       in   JBowL

   Put the rind of a thinly peeled lemon and its juice in a tureen,
add three tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, and one quart of
water, and let it stand an hour; pour over it one pint of Old Tom
gin, a wineglassful of maraschino, three tablespoonfuls of shaved
ice, and a bottle of Seltzer, and serve.
                              BOWLS.                           243


                       451.
   A kind of spiced wine of the mediaeval age, when one did
not yet understand blending the wines, consequently they always
were of a certain acidity, which was covered by addition of honey
and spices. A recipe for manufacturing hippocras, which Talley-
raut, the head cook of Charles VII., king of France, has made,
reads as follows: To a quart of wine take one-third of an ounce
of very fine and clean cinnamon, one-thirtieth ounce of ginger,
twice as much of cloves, as much of nutmeg, and six ounces of
sugar and honey; grind the spices, put them in a muslin bag,
hang this in the wine for ten to twelve hours, and filter several
times.
   Wherever, nowadays, hippocras is made, it is made in the fol-
lowing manner: Cut eight to ten large, aromatic, well-peeled
apples into thin slices; put that in a tureen, add half a pound of
sugar, three or four pepper kernels, the rind of a lemon, one-
third of an ounce of whole cinnamon, two ounces of peeled and
mashed almonds, and four cloves; pour over this two bottles of
Rhine wine, cover it well, and let it soak with the other ingre-
dients; filter^the wine, and you may use this wine also fora bowl.


               452. Cinfon Blo00om           Botol.

   Pluck fully developed linden blossoms; look carefully that no
insects are on them; put them in a tureen; pour over that two
bottles of Rhine wine; cover the tureen well, and let it stand from
six to eight hours; strain, and add wine according to the num-
ber of guests; sweeten to taste, and add finally a pint bottle of
champagne or a bottle of Seltzer.

                      453. JHag Bowl.
   For the preparation of this favorite spring beverage there is
a number of more or less complicated recipes, of which we first
give the simplest one, and afterwards some of the more compli-
cated ones.
   Put a handful of woodruff (asperula odorata) that has no
blossoms yet, in a bowl; pour over it two bottles of Moselle wine,
cover the bowl, let it soak not longer than half an hour in a very
244                              BOWLS.

cool place; take the woodruff out, sweeten with from four to
five ounces of sugar, stir well, and serve the aromatic beverage
at once.     You improve the fine taste by adding the thin slices
of one or  two peeled oranges. If you prepare this delicious
beverage in this simple way, it is the best, as the unadulterated
aroma of the woodruff is obtained; but take care that you do not
leave the herb too long in the wine or you will get headache
from it.
                            451
     Two handfuls of woodruff, two or three oranges cut into
slices,   two bottles of white wine, and two bottles of claret are
put in a bowl; let     it infuse an hour, take the herb out, and

sweeten to taste.

                             455.
     A handful of woodruff, four sprigs of balm, four to six mint-
leaves, as    many young strawberry-leaves, and cassis-leaves are
put in a bowl; add two lemons cut into slices, freed from peel
and seeds, and two or three bottles of Moselle wine; let soak not
longer than half an hour, add sugar to taste, and ice, if desired.
   (N. B. The first one is, to repeat it once more, the simplest
and best one.)
                         456. Militia      JBowl.

     A beverage similar to Bishop or Cardinal. Infuse the rind
of   two lemons in one quart of good, white wine six or eight
hours;    filter   the wine, sweeten with half a pound of sugar, put
it   on ice, and use it when you please.

                             457.    Jfactav.

      Peel twelve ripe, very fine choice apples; cut into very thin
slices;   put that in a bowl with the thinly peeled rind of two
lemons, cover the slices thickly with powdered sugar, and pour
over it a bottle of Rhine or Moselle wine. Cover the bowl, and
let it stand from ten to fourteen hours; add, the following day, a
bottle of Moselle and       one of champagne; put the bowl on ice,
and serve.
                                  BOWLS.                        245



           458. Nectar in tlje            <nglt0l)
                              (FOR BOTTLING.)
   Put the rind of two or three lemons, one pound of raisins
(without seeds and cut in pieces), one and a half pounds of loaf-
sugar, in a tureen, and pour over it nine quarts of boiling water;
after cooling add the juice of the lemons, let the beverage stand
a week in a cool place; stir daily, then filter through a flannel
bag, and bottle   ;   you may use it right away.


                              459.

   Two pounds of raisins (without seeds and cut in small pieces)
and four pounds of sugar are infused in nine quarts of boil-
ing water; stir until the water is getting cool; add two lemons
(cut in slices), one and a half to two quarts of rum or best brandy;
cover the vessel well and let it stand a week; stir daily a few
times, press all through flannel, let it stand for another week for
getting clear; decant into bottles for immediate or future use.



                        460.         range Borol.

   Rub the peel of one large or two small oranges on sugar;
pour over it a bottle of Moselle wine, and let it stand two hours;
then peel six oranges very neatly, divide them into nice cuts,
remove the seeds and their inner skin, partially, that the juice
may flow out freely; add one pound of pulverized sugar and four
bottles of white wine; put the bowl on ice, and add, before serv-

ing, a bottle of champagne.



                       461.      range Cardinal.

   Peel an orange very thin with a sharp knife; add three bot-
tles ofRhine wine; let it stand at least from eight to twelve
hours; strain the wine through a sieve; add the juice of six or-
anges and one and a half pounds of sugar.
246                               BOWLS.


                             462.      rgeat.

   This is a cooling beverage, especially adapted for sick per-
sons who are forbidden to drink lemonades; but in many cases,
as by dancing parties, musical entertainments, etc., also for the

healthy, very refreshing and pleasing.
    Pour boiling water over one-fourth pound of sweet and eight
to ten bitter almonds; place in a sieve; skin them; mash with
one-fourth of a pound of sugar, and add, while mashing, a few
drops of cold water. Put it in a china pot; add, gradually, one
pint of cold water, stir well, and let the mixture stand in a cool
place two hours; strain through a cloth; place it on ice; add
another quart of cold water and one pony of orange-flower wa-
ter,   and serve.

                           463. |)mcl) Borah

   Peel ten to twelve peaches; cut them in quarters; remove
the seeds; put that in a bowl; strew thickly with powdered
sugar, cover the bowl well, and let it stand from eight to ten
hours; add two bottles of Rhine or Moselle wine; place the
bowl on ice, and add, finally, a bottle of Seltzer or of cham-
pagne.

                           464.    aije JJope.


       A bowl similar to Bishop or Cardinal, only use Tokay wine
instead of red and white wine.
     Pare off the rind of two small bitter oranges; put the rind in
a bottle of Tokay; cork well, and let stand for twenty-four hours;
filter, and sweeten to taste.




                    465.     nglt0l)   Jlorto Borol.

   Cut three lemons into thin slices; remove the seeds; put the
slices in a bowl; pour over it half a pint of sherry and one quart
of porter: grate a little nutmeg; place on ice and serve.
                                 BOWLS.                        247



                   466.   Bott)l   a la |Jart0icnne.
                            (FOR TWELVE.)
   A large bowl, containing about two gallons; the juice of six
peeled lemons, the juice of six peeled oranges,, one pound of
pulverized sugar, two quarts of champagne, two quarts of Bur-
gundy; dissolve this exceedingly well; add a bottle of Jamaica
rum, half a bottle of brandy, a whiskey-tumbler of chartreuse
(green or yellow), three ponies of benedictine, two ponies of
curagao, two ponies of maraschino, one bottle of plain soda, or
other mineral water. You may add a small pineapple, peeled
and     sliced.   Mix this well, and have it cold on a large piece
of ice; serve in fine glasses.


                      467. Jloapbrng Bowl.
   The same recipe as for a strawberry bowl, only raspberries in-
instead of strawberries.


                        468. Hfefta BotDl.
       On a dry, sunny day pluck a little basket of fully developed
mignonette blossoms; free them from all green leaves; cut the
stalks off to the blossoms, and look carefully that no insects or
small caterpillars are on them; then place them in a tureen; in-
fuse them for twelve hours, well covered in half a pint of arrack
or brandy and half a bottle of Rhine wine; strain through flan-
nel;   add three bottles of Rhine wine; sweeten to taste; put it on
ice,   and add, before serving, a bottle of champagne or Seltzer.

                          469.     Hum JUp.
   Heat three-fourths of a pint of ale; beat three or four eggs
with four ounces of pulverized sugar, a teaspoonful of pulver-
ized ginger, a little grated nutmeg and a finely chopped    lemon-
peel and a gill of old Jamaica rum to a consistent foam; add
the nearly boiling ale, while constantly stirring, and pour the
beverage a few times from one vessel into another; serve in
glasses.


                                                               \
248                           BOWLS.


                         470.    Sillabub.
                                                                   "
      This word is derived from the old English words, " to sile
     to
                " and " bub "
("    strain,")             ("beverage").
   In a large china pot mix one pint of rich, sweet cream, one
pint of good Rhine or Hungarian wine, four or five ounces of
sugar, on which you have rubbed off the rind of a lemon and the
juice of a lemon; let it get very cold on ice; beat to a thick
foam, and serve in glasses or cups as dessert, or after coffee.

                      471. Heir Sillabub.
   On half a pound of sugar rub the rind of two lemons;
break the sugar and dissolve it in a quart of sweet cream; mix
three-fourths of a quart of claret and the juice of the lemons
with the cream; place on ice for an hour, and serve.

                    472. Stvawberrn Bowl.
     Take one pint of choice strawberries; cover them with pow-
dered sugar; then take three pints of strawberries and infuse
them with one pint of hot sugar syrup two hours; strain them
through flannel upon the sugared strawberries; add three or four
bottles of Moselle wine; put the bowl on ice, and add, finally,
a bottle of champagne.

                       473. Qwttt      Soul
     One pound of powdered sugar, one and a half lemons cut
                                           an ounce of stick
in slices, without the seeds, and one-fourth of

cinnamon, are infused in a bottle of Moselle or Rhine wine
twelve hours; strain and serve in glasses.

                474. tDeat Jnftian Sangara.
    Pulverize one-fourth of a pound of loaf-sugar; add one wine-
glassful of lemon or lime juice; stir well; add a bottle of Madeira,
half a pint of good brandy, and one quart of cold water; mix
all well, and grate the fourth part of a little nutmeg on top; put

in a big lump of ice, and serve with biscuits.
     This is a favorite drink in the West Indies, and usually taken
cold.
                        laltecljalen.


                    475. ftppU        Bteljop.

   Peel eighteen to twenty fine, aromatic apples; cut them into
thin slices, steam one-third of them with seven ounces of raisins,
one glass of Rhine wine, seven ounces of sugar, and the juice of
a lemon, and put on ice. The rest of the apple slices are boiled in
one and a half quarts of water with some lemon-peel and stick
cinnamon to a mash; strain; mix with a bottle of Rhine wine
and one pound of pulverized sugar, and serve over the steamed
apple slices on plates.

                   476. Apricot       Bt0l)op.

   Peel about twelve fine, soft apricots; four of them are cut in
pieces and boiled with the skinned seeds (chopped) and with the
peel of the apricots and half a pound of sugar; boil half an hour
well, strain through a sieve upon the others, which you have cut
in two; let all get cold, and add a few glasses of white wine.



                     477.    Bwr Bwijop.
   Pumpernickel is grated on a grater and put in a tureen; mix
with it one-fourth of a pound of powdered sugar, one-fourth of a
pound of choice raisins, a teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon,
an unpeeled lemon, cut in pieces without seeds; add a quart of
white beer or lager (Franziskaner), and serve.


                   478. Bilberra       Bfcfjop.

    Boil two quarts of well-cleaned bilberries with half a pint of
water, one-fourth of a pound of sugar, some lemon-peel and
some stick cinnamon; strain through a sieve, mix it with two
quarts of white wine, cream or milk, place the mixture on ice,
and serve over broken Zwieback, grated pumpernickel or snow-
balls.
                                251
252                            KALTSCHALEN.


                        479.     <!



   Remove the pits of one and a half quarts of fine sour cherries,
break one part of the pits, put the cherries and pits with one
pint of wine, one and a half quarts of water, six ounces of sugar,
some stick cinnamon and lemon-peel in a tureen; let all boil
thoroughly until the cherries are perfectly soft; then stir a table-
spoonful of corn-starch in cold water, mix that, while continually
stirring, to the cherries, let boil a while, strain all through a hair-
sieve, and     put on   ice.    When serving, add broken Zwieback,
cherries steamed in wine   and sugar, snowballs of the beaten
whites of eggs, seasoned with lemon sugar, etc.



                        480. Currant      33i0l)op.

    One quart of choice currants are strained through a hair-sieve
and mixed with half a pound of powdered sugar and a good quart
of light, white wine; put on ice and serve over broken Zwieback
or small biscuits.

                         481. Canon Bi0l)op.

   A bottle of white wine with one quart of water and nine
ounces of sugar are heated to the boiling-point (without boiling);
add the yolks of six eggs and a spoonful of flour well whipped,
and take it from the fire; strain through a sieve, add the peel of
two lemons, which you rubbed off on half a pound of sugar, and
their juice;   mix well and let it get cold in the cellar.      When
serving, add some biscuits or macaroni.



                        482. JtWon Bishop.

   A half or whole very ripe melon is cut into small, cubic pieces;
cover them well with sugar, squeeze over it the juice of a lemon
and let soak for an hour; add two or three bottles of light, ice-
cold white wine;     stir   thoroughly, add some small biscuits and
serve.
                              KALTSCHALEN.                               253


                        483.    fltelferrg         Bteljop.

    Select from one pint of ripe mulberries the third or fourth
part, z. e. the largest and best, place the rest in one or one and
            ,



a half quarts of water over a slow fire and boil them well; strain,
add one pint of wine (best red wine), some lemon-peel and seven
ounces of sugar; boil this well together, let it get cold, and serve
over the selected berries which you covered with sugar.


                         484.      range Bi0l)op.
    On half a pound of sugar rub the rind of two oranges; heat
to the boiling-point in one pint of water;            when the water has got
cold, squeeze the juice of four oranges, add              one bottle of white
wine and the peeled slices of two oranges.


                          485.    |)mcl) Bialjop.
    Boil a number of peaches cut in two, soft in water after you
have removed their pits; mix them with one and a half quarts of
white wine and three-fourths of a pound of sugar and let it get
cold on ice.

                        486. pnmpple           Btsljoj).

    Peel a pineapple and cut into four pieces; one-half is cut into
slices;   cover these with sugar and place on ice; grate the other
half, boil it up in one quart of   sugar syrup and press through a
cloth;    add to this syrup one and a half bottles of Rhine wine and
the juice of a lemon, sweeten to taste with powdered sugar, put
wine and        slices in a tureen, let   it get    cold on ice and serve in
glasses or on plates.

                       487. Haspberrg              JBteljop.

   From one quart of choice raspberries select the best, cover
them with sugar in a tureen, then press the remaining berries
through a hair-sieve, mix with one pint of water, one bottle of
white wine, the rind of a lemon rubbed off on eight ounces of
sugar; pour this mixture over the berries in the tureen, let it get
cold on ice and serve with small biscuits.
254                        KALTSCHALEN.


                      488. Hire mil]        tUine.


       Rub the rind of a lemon on a little over half a pound of sugar;
refine this in three-fourths of a quart of water, let it cool, add
one bottle of white wine and the juice of two lemons and one-
fourth of a pound of rice, slowly boiled before, and place all on
ice.

                    489. Strawberry         Bteljop.

   Put one quart of choice strawberries in a tureen and let it
stand with six ounces of powdered sugar an hour; add one quart
of white wine, as much of water, and the juice of a lemon;
sweeten to taste and grate a little cinnamon on it.
                      (Ifotra     ?Drtnk0,


                    490. Champagne Beer.

    Boil in a large, very clean earthen pot five gallons of water
with one and a half pounds of sugar brown rock-candy is the
best until the sugar is completely dissolved; when the water is
cool add one and three-fourths ounces of yeast; stir well; cover
the pot, and let it stand over night. The following day take off
the yeast on the top; place the fluid in a cool place, and decant
it into another vessel very carefully; add a stick of cinnamon, and

one ounce of lump-sugar, which has been moistened with twelve
drops of lemon-oil; let it stand for a couple of hours; bottle and
cork well, and put it in the cellar; you may use it after four or
five days.

                        491.    <gg Beer.
   Place one quart of beer with four ounces of sugar, a stick of
cinnamon, and some pieces of lemon-peel in a pot over the fire,
and heat it to boiling; meanwhile beat six whole fresh eggs to
foam, and add the boiling beer, while continually stirring; then
serve it in cups.

                      492.       inger Beer.

    Put in a large earthen vessel the rind of a thinly peeled lemon
and the juice of four, two ounces of pulverized ginger, two and
one-half pounds of powdered sugar, half an ounce of cremor
tartari; pour over it ten quarts of boiling water, and add, after the
water is lukewarm only, one ounce of pressed yeast, dissolved in
a little water; stir the fluid well, and let it ferment to the follow-
ing day. Then take off the yeast on top; decant the beer care-
fully into bottles, so as not to disturb the yeast; cork well, and
the beer is ready for use after three or four days.
    17                            257
258                      EXTRA DRINKS.


                       493.       tnger |)op.

    Put one pound of lump-sugar, one ounce of pulverized ginger,
one ounce of cremor tartari in five quarts of boiling water; when
the water is nearly cold, add one ounce of pressed yeast, dissolved
in   a little water; strain it into bottles;   tie the cork   with wire,
and you may use the beverage after six or eight hours.


                           494.    ffiloria.


   The French are very fond of this beverage.
   Take very strong, well-strained coffee, and pour it over half a
cupful of sugar; the result will be a consistent syrup; in the mo-
ment of serving pour in a teaspoonful of brandy; light it, and
extinguish the flame after a few seconds, and drink the gloria as
hot as you possibly can.


                            495. Ktw00.

     This, for every Russian household, necessary national bev-
erage, which is also used for different soups and other dishes, is
manufactured for the family use in the following way:
    Ten pounds of rye flour, one pound of malt, and one pound
of buckwheat flour are stirred in a tub with three quarts of warm
water; then pour over it three quarts of boiling water; after half
an hour add again six quarts of boiling water, and repeat this
in half-hourly intervals three times more; stir the flour in the
water well; let it get cool, cover, and let it stand in a rather
warm place; the following day you thin the kvass with cold water;
put it in a cool place; let it thoroughly sour, and bottle. When
the kvass is nearly used up, leave a couple of quarts of the bev-
erage in the tub for the next souring; the thick sediment at the
bottom is then thrown away, but it may be used on farms suc-
cessfully as food for the beasts of burden.


     Another recipe is the following:
   Twenty pounds of rye flour, and as much malt flour are stir-
red with cold water, and kneaded well then form loaves of bread
                                         ;
                        EXTRA DRINKS.                           259


from ten to twelve pounds each; press with the fingers some deep
holes into them; pour cold water into these holes; place the
loaves in a very hot baking-oven, and bake them brownish
black; leave them over night in the oven; break forty pounds to
moderate-sized pieces; put them in a tub; pour fifty to sixty
quarts of boiling water over them; cover the pot with canton
flannel and a wooden lid very well, and let soak for two hours.
Pour the entire quantity into a cask, the bottom of which is
covered with cross-laid slats, which again are covered by straw
to prevent the falling through of the bread   ;
                                               through a side-faucet
decant the kvass, and fill it again into the cask; repeat this a
few times to clear it sufficiently; in a vessel already soured it
need stay for only twenty-four hours, but in a new cask it must
stand for a few days until it is sufficiently sour.
    Besides this bread-kvass, this beverage may be made also from
fruits: so you may make apple-kvass by rowing apple-slices and
whole pears on strings, and drying them in the sun in a cask of
                                                      ;



about fifteen gallons you put twenty-four quarts of dried apples,
and as many dried pears, and fill the cask with boiled but cooled-
off water; let it stand for three days on a rather warm place; then

bring it into the cellar; cover the bung-hole with canvas, and let
the kvass ferment.   After fermentation bung the cask; bottle
after four weeks; add to each bottle a handful of raisins; cork,
and seal, and let them lie a few months in a cellar; cover them
with a layer of sand.
Jfrat
                         JFntit



                 496. <nglt0l) Apricot tDtne*

    Boil twelve pounds of ripe, stoneless apricots with one pound
of lump-sugar, half an hour, in twelve quarts of water; add one-
iourth of the peeled and roughly mashed kernels, and let the
fluid get cool in a well-covered vessel.   After cooling, add, while
stirring, a tablespoonful of beer-yeast; let it ferment three or four
days. Then fill the juice into a very well-cleaned cask, and add,
when the fermentation is complete, a bottle of Rhine wine; let
the cask rest for half a year, fill the contents into bottles, and
let them lie a year before using.




                       497. Bilberrg       tDinc.

      Boil three pints of water with four quarts of selected bilberries
for twenty minutes, strain the juice through canton flannel,
cover, and let it stand for half an hour; then fill it carefully into
another pot; let it boil once more a few seconds with twelve
ounces of sugar, one-eighth of an ounce of ground cinnamon,
and one-tenth of an ounce of ground cloves; bottle after cooling,
seal the bottles, and put them in the cellar.



                498.    #ngli0I)   UlackbnTs        tUhte.

   Put any large quantity of ripe and dry blackberries in a large
stone jar, pour over it boiling water, and place it over night in a
tepid oven; squeeze the berries thoroughly in the morning,
strain through a fine sieve, and let the juice ferment a fortnight;
then add to each four quarts of juice one pound of pulverized
sugar, and half a pint of brandy or rum; fill the fluid into a cask,
bung well, and let it lie in a cellar a few months before using.
                                   263
264                        FRUIT WINES.


                            499. CHrer.

   Cider is chiefly produced in large quantities by pressing
apples with an addition of water; yet one may obtain smaller
quantities for the family use without too great trouble, by
grating   fine,   juicy peeled apples   on a grater;    filter   the juice
through a cloth, pour it into stone jars, and add some roasted
apples to hasten fermentation. When, after a couple of days, a
skin appears on the juice, fermentation is complete; remove the
skin, bottle the cider, and keep it in a cool place.
   Larger quantities of cider are obtained by mashing good,
juicy apples; press them, and fill the juice into a small Rhine
wine cask. Place this cask in a cool room upon a skid, when
the juice will soon begin to ferment; fermentation will take about
a fortnight; during this time remove with a clean piece of linen
all stuffs thrown to the surface; as soon as fermentation is done

fill the cask
              up with water, bung it well, and let it lie in the cel-
lar half a year; decant it into another cask, let it lie for another
two months, and fill into bottles.


                        500. Currant      tHtne.

   Collect the perfectly ripe currants on a sunny day, clean, and
put them in a big earthen or wooden pot, and mash them with
a wooden masher; let ferment in a cellar, and strain through a
hair-sieve with a wooden spoon; never use your hands; decant
into a little cask; add to each quart of juice half a pound of
powdered sugar, and to each twelve quarts of juice one quart of
brandy or arrack let the wine stand six weeks, bottle, and use
                    ;



after two months.




       501. Currant ttHne          in   %    <nglt0l)

   From twelve to fourteen quarts of currants are mashed, the
juice pressed out, and the remnants covered with eighteen quarts
of cold water; stir repeatedly, press out again the following day,
mix with the juice, and fourteen pounds of loaf-sugar; when the
                               FRUIT WINES.                         265


sugar is dissolved, fill the juice into a cask, so as not to fill it en-
tirely;bung, and bore a small hole with a gimlet; let it stand
four weeks in a place where the temperature never sinks below
68      F.
       After this period add three pounds of sugar dissolved in two
quarts of warm water; shake the cask well, and bung again.
Six or eight weeks later, when no more noise of the fermenta-
tion can be heard going on, decant, add
                                      two quarts of brandy;
let the wine stand two months in the cellar; then fill into
another, but not new cask, which must be entirely filled, and
bung.        After three or four years, always in a temperature not be-
low 68       F., bottle,   and you obtain a delicious beverage, which
much resembles good grape wine.

                  502.        nglt0t)   fltontolion iUtne.

    Pluck about four quarts of the yellow petals of the dande-
lion blossoms; take care that they are clean from insects; infuse
them three days in four and a half quarts of hot water; stir it
now and then, strain through flannel, and boil the water half an
hour with the rind of a lemon and of an orange, some ginger,
and three and a half pounds of lump-sugar; after boiling add
the lemon and orange, cut into slices, without seeds; let it get
cool; add a little yeast on toast.   After one or two days the
fermentation is done; then fill into a cask and after two months
you may bottle.
   (The wine is very good against liver-complaints.)

                            503.        lfor tUine.


   Twenty-six pounds of elderberries are boiled in fifty quarts of
water, an hour, while adding one ounce of pimento and two
ounces of ginger; place forty-four pounds of sugar in a tub,
strain the fluid over it, squeeze all the juice out of the berries,
add four ounces of cremor tartari;      let the fluid stand two days,

fill   into a cask, place a brick over the bung-hole, and stir every
other day.
   When fermentation           is   complete, add two or three quarts of
cognac spirits; bung, and bottle after four months.
266                      FRUIT WINES.


                     504.         tnger tUine.

   Boil sixteen pounds of sugar and twelve ounces of well-pul-
verized Jamaica ginger in twenty-four quarts of water half an
hour; skim carefully, and let it stand till the following day.
   Cut seven pounds of raisins in pieces, remove the seeds, put
the raisins in a cask with four, quarts of good brandy or arrack,
and three or four lemons, sliced and without seeds; pour over it
the fluid, which you decant carefully; bung the cask; clear the
wine after a fortnight with one ounce of pale white glue, and
bottle after another fortnight.



                  505.       oo0cberrg tUine.

   Unripe, but otherwise perfectly developed gooseberries of a
good kind are mashed in a tub; after twenty-four hours decant
the juice; infuse the berries in lukewarm water twelve hours in
the proportion of one quart of water to four quarts of berries;
strain; mix it with the decanted juice; add to each twenty
quarts of fluid twelve pounds of broken sugar, and let the wine
ferment in a warm place. After two or three days fill into a
cask; add to each twenty quarts of wine two quarts of best
brandy; bung well, and place it in not too cold a cellar; to obtain
an excellent gooseberry wine it ought to remain in the cellar
five years, yet you may decant after a year: of course the prod-
uct will be inferior.



           506. Sparkling <>oo0eberrg            tUine.


    Forty pounds of large, but still green gooseberries are mash-
ed in a tub, infused in eighteen quarts of lukewarm water; stir
thoroughly; decant the water, and squeeze the fruits through a
sieve, while you mix it again with four or five quarts of water.
   Dissolve thirty pounds of loaf-sugar, and three and one-third
ounces of cremor tartari in the    juice, and add water to have al-
together fifty quarts of fluid: cover the tub with a cloth, and let
                                                               p
it stand undisturbed two days in a temperature not below 6o      F.
                        FRUIT WINES.                           267

   Then pour the wine into a cask containing exactly 45 or 46
quarts, and keep the remaining fluid for the purpose of rilling
up afterward during fermentation; when you can no longer hear
the hissing noise of fermentation, bung, but make a hole beside
the bung with a gimlet, closed by a small cork, which is to be
taken out every other day to avoid bursting. After ten or
twelve days cork solidly; place the cask in a cool cellar, and let
it lie till the end of December; decant the wine into a new cask,

and clear with pale white glue in the proportion of one ounce
to one quart of wine.
   In spring bottle at the time when the gooseberries of the
same kind begin to bloom; fasten your corks with wire.


              507.     one     iling   d la Hu00e.

   Refine four pounds of honey, and mix it with two pounds of
pulverized sugar, the rind of four lemons rubbed on sugar, and
the juice of six lemons; after cooling mix it well with eight
quarts of cold well-water; pour the fluid into a cask, bung it,
and put it in the cellar. After a fortnight decant, bottle, cork,
and seal, and let the bottles lie a few weeks before using.


                     508. Canon        tUine.

    Boil six quarts of water with four pounds of lump-sugar to
the consistency of syrup; peel five lemons, and put the rind in
a large, clean pot; pour the boiling syrup over the rind; when
the syrup is cool add the juice of ten lemons, a piece of toast
covered with a spoonful of yeast, and     let it   stand two days,
when fermentation begins.      Then remove the rind; pour the
fluid into a cask which must be completely filled; let the wine
ferment, and cork when the fermentation is complete. After
three months bottle and use.


                     509.      range   itttne.

    Boil twenty-eight pounds of loaf-sugar in thirty-two quarts
of water, with the whites and the cracked shells of four eggs, the
whites being beaten to foam; skim well;    let the   concoction get
268                       FRUIT WINES.

cool;  add the juice of ninety bitter oranges; mix all very well;
filter;add half a pound of yeast put on toast, let stand for
twenty-four hours; fill into a cask, add one quart of fine brandy.
After fermentation is complete, bung well; after three months
decant into another cask, add another quart of brandy, let it lie
for a year, bottle, and let the bottles lie for three months before

using.

                     510. JJmr (SEIjampagtu.

    Juicy and sweet pears are mashed; press the juice out, and
      into a small cask; cover the bung-hole with a piece of mus-
fill it

lin, and let it stand for a few days.  The juice begins now to
ferment, and to foam considerably; after the fermentation          is

complete fill into another cask, bung well, and let it lie in a cel-
lar for six weeks; after this fill the wine into bottles, fasten the
corks with wire, and you may use it after three or four more
weeks.
                        511. Hcusin iUine.

     Pour twenty-four quarts of boiling water over twenty-four
pounds of extra good raisins; add     six   pounds of sugar; let   it

stand a fortnight; stir daily; decant the fluid, squeeze the rais-
ins, and add three-fourths of a pound of finely pulverized cremor
       fill into a cask, let it ferment;
tartari;                                 bung; let it lie for six
months, decant into another cask; let it lie again three months,
and bottle.
                          512.
   If you wish a raisin wine
                             resembling in taste the muscatel
wine you proceed as follows:
   Boil eight pounds of choice raisins in twenty-four quarts of
water perfectly soft, press them through a sieve, add the mass to
the water in which the raisins have been boiled, likewise add
twelve pounds of lump-sugar; when the sugar is dissolved let the
wine ferment in a cask by adding one-fourth of a quart of yeast.
When the fermentation is nearly over, hang a linen bag filled
with two and a half quarts of elderberries into the cask; remove
the bag as soon as the wine has the required taste let the wine
                                                      ;




lie for six   months and bottle.
                                FRUIT WINES.                        269


                               '

             513. ftabtn jtDhu in          %    fijebrnu   St^le.

   The raisin wine, which is used as so-called Easter wine during
the Passover in all orthodox Hebrew families, is easily made as
follows:
      A
     fortnight before the feast, select three pounds of fine raisins;
cut them in small pieces and remove the seeds; put them with
one pound of sugar in a jug and pour over six or seven quarts of
cold water; place the vessel, covered, on or behind the hearth;
skim after three or four days; filter through a funnel lined with
linen or blotting-paper into bottles; add to each bottle some
stick cinnamon, lemon-peel, and cloves; cork well and put them
in the cellar, until you use them.



                            514. $ia0pbm*2 tOtne.

   Ripe raspberries are mashed with a wooden spoon and put
into a stone jar; add one quart of cold water to each quart of
berries.          The following day you decant the fluid, press the ber-
ries through a cloth, add one pound of sugar to every quart of
wine;    the wine into a cask and stir daily; when fermentation
           fill

is done, add one quart of white wine to every four quarts of

raspberry wine; bung the barrel, let it lie three months, bottle the
wine and it is ready for use.


                     515.     ngli0l)   topberrg    tUhte.

   Throw twenty quarts of ripe raspberries into a tub, pour
twenty quarts of boiling water over them, cover the tub well and
let   it   stand until the following day; skim, press the berries
through a hair-sieve and let the fluid stand again from four to
five hours.  Decant it into a barrel, add gradually twelve pounds
of pulverized sugar, mix one quart of the fluid with three table-
spoonfuls of very fresh ale yeast and mix this with the rest of the
wine; cover the bung-hole with a piece of paper and a brickstone
and let the wine ferment. As soon as the fermentation is over,
bung the barrel well, and after four weeks decant the wine into
270                          FRUIT WINES.


another clean barrel; clear the fluid with two-thirds of an ounce
of pale, sweet glue and add one quart of fine brandy to the wine;

bung well and let it lie for a year in a cool cellar; bottle and seal,
and let the bottles lie for another year.



                           516. Sloe     tlltnt.


   Fresh, ripe sloes are put in a tub, for each quart of sloes one
quart of water; boil the water and pour it boiling overthe sloes;
let that stand five days; stir daily. Add to each quart of fluid
one pound of loaf-sugar; dissolve by continually stirring; fill
all in a cask, add one pint of brandy to each six quarts of fluid;

let it lie in the cask fora year, at least, before bottling; let the
bottles lie for another year, when the wine will have the gout of

port wine.

                          517. Qpiccb tUtne.

   Wash one-fourth of an ounce of cloves, as much ginger, twice
as much cinnamon and nutmeg; pour over it ten or twelve quarts
of Madeira and let it stand for a few days in moderate warmth;
strain it through blotting-paper and drink it in very small doses.




                       518. Straroborrg tUine.

    Pour over twelve quarts of strawberries twelve quarts of cold
water and let stand twenty-four hours. Strain, add eight pounds
of sugar, eight quarts of apple cider, the thin peel of a lemon
and one ounce of cremor tartari; fill all in a barrel; it must oc-
cupy not more than three-fourths of the barrel's volume bung,  ;



and bore a hole beside the bung with a gimlet; let the barrel
stand four weeks on a temperate place. Then add three pounds
of sugar, shake the barrel well and bung again.       After six to
eight weeks decant, add one quart of cognac, fill back the wine
into the cleaned barrel, place it two months in the cellar; after
this time decant into a smaller cask, which must be filled entirely;

bung well    ;
                 bottle after three years and use.
                           FRUIT WINES.                           271



                          519.   ttH0cl)nialf.

               (CHERRY WINE WITH HONEY A LA RUSSE.)
   Into a strong little cask, well bound with iron bands, you fill
ripe sour cherries, so that only about two inches room is left;   then
pour slowly over the cherries clean, white, unboiled honey con-
taining no particles of wax, and fill each empty space between the
cherries with honey.      As soon as the upper layer of cherries is
nearly covered by honey, put the cover tightly on the cask, bung
and seal well bung-hole and lid, or best cover the entire surface
with pitch to prevent any air from entering; then sink the cask
in sand or earth for three months; during this time the fermen-
tation is going on    ;
                        there is great danger the cask might burst,
unless   it   be of very strong material. After three months the
wine is filtered, bottled, and is ready for use.
           THIRSTY earth drinks up the rain,
           Trees from earth drink that again;
           Ocean drinks the air; the sun
           Drinks the sea, and him the moon.
           Any reason, canst thou think,
           I should thirst while all these drink ?


                                                     ANACREON.


DRINK enjoy the hour; what the morrow bringeth
       !



  None can tell; then vex not thy soul with idle care;
Being and Not-being but a point divideth;
  Life is but a moment; then make that moment fair.
Piles of hoarded treasure, heaps of gold and silver
  Hades self might chuckle, when thou call'st them thine;
Surely thou hast nothing but that which thou enjoyest:
                                        " Tis
  Only while enjoying canst thou say,         mine."
                                              AN OLD POET.

           HE who joy has never found
           In the flute's entrancing sound,
           Bacchus' gifts who dares despise
           Song and laugh and maidens' eyes;
           He who at his grudging board,
           Thinks upon his growing hoard,
           Reckoning interest in his head
           Him I count already dead.
           Shuddering and disgusted, I
           Pass the meagre carcass by.
                                              AN OLD POET.
                             275
276                         POETRY.

             Now with roses we are crowned,
             Let our mirth and cups go round,
             While a girl, whose hand a spear,
             Wound with ivy twines, does bear,
             With her white feet beats the ground
             To the lyre's harmonious sound,
             Played by some fairy boy, whose choice
             Skill is heightened by his voice;

             Bright-haired Love, with his divine
             Mother, and the god of wine
             Will flock hither, glad to see
             Old men of their company.
                                                        ANACREON.

                          >tl)dlo,    II.   3.

              AND let me the canakin clink, clink,
              And let me the canakin clink:
                   A soldier's a man,
                   A life's but a span,
              Why, then, let a soldier drink.


              biltong cwb Ckopatra,              II.   7.

             COME, thou monarch of the vine,
             Plumpy Bacchus, with pink eyne:
             In thy vats our cares be drown'd;
             With thy grapes our hairs be crown 'd          ;




             Cup us, till the world go round     ;




             Cup us, till the world go round.


         King <enrB      IV., Seconir |)art,           IV. 3.

   A GOOD sherris-sack hath a twofold operation in          it:   it ascends

me into the brain, dries me there all the foolish, and dull and
crudy vapours which environ     it,   makes it apprehensive, quick,
forgetive, full of nimble, fiery, and delectable shapes, which de-
livered o'er to the voice (the tongue), which is the birth, becomes
                            POETRY.                            277


excellent wit. The second property of your excellent sherris is,
the warming of the blood, which, before cold and settled, left
the liver white and pale, which is the badge of pusillanimity
and cowardice; but the sherris warms it, and makes it course
from the inwards to the parts extreme. It illumines the face,
which, as a beacon, gives warning to all the rest of this little
kingdom, man, to arm; and then the vital commoners, and in-
land petty spirits muster me all to their captain, the heart; who,
great and puffed up with this retinue, does any deed of courage;
and this valor comes of sherris. So that skill in the weapon is
nothing without sack, for that sets it a-work; and learning, a
mere hoard of gold kept by a devil, till sack commences it, and
sets it in act and use.     Hereof comes it that Prince Harry is
valiant, for the cold blood he did naturally inherit of his father,
he has, like lean, steril, and bare land, manured, husbanded,
and tilled with excellent endeavour of drinking good, and good
store of fertile sherris, that he has become very hot and valiant.
If I had a thousand sons, the first human principle I would teach

them should be, to forswear their potations, and to addict them-
selves to sack.




                         Scotcl)     Drink.

                       BY ROBERT BURNS.

           LET other poets raise a fracas
           'Bout vines, an' wines, an' druken Bacchus
           An' crabbit names an' stories wrack us,
                               An' grate our lug,
           I sing the juice Scotch bear can mak' us,

                                   In glass or jug.


           O thou, my muse guid auld Scotch drink,
                               !



           Whether thro' wimplin' worms thou jink,
           Or, richly brown, ream o'er the brink
                                   In glorious faem,
           Inspire me, till I lisp an' wink,
                                   To sing thy name.
2/8                    POETRY.


      Let husky wheat the haughs adorn,
      An' aits set up their awnie horn,
      An' pease an' beans, at e'en or morn,
                         Perfume the plain,
      Leeze me on thee, John Barleycorn,
                          Thou king o' grain    !




      On thee aft Scotland chows her cood,
      In souple scones, the wale o' food    !



      Or tumblin' in the boilin' flood,
                       Wi' kail an' beef;
      But when thou pours thy strong heart's blood,
                       There thou shines chief.

      Food fills the wame, an' keeps us livin';
      Tho' life's a gift no worth receivin',
      When heavy-dragg'd wi' pine an' grievin';
                          But, oil'd by thee,
      The wheels o' life gae down hill scrievin',
                          Wi' rattlin' glee.

      Thou clears the head o' doited Lear,
      Thou cheers the heart o' drooping Care;
      Thou strings the nerves o' Labour sair
                         At 's weary toil;
      Thou ev'n brightens dark Despair
                          Wi' gloomy smile.

      Aft, clad in massy, siller weed,
      Wi' gentles thou erects thy head:
      Yet humbly kind in time o' need,
                          The poor man's wine,
      His wee drap praritch, or his bread
                          Thou kitchens fine.
      Thou art the life o' public haunts;
      But thee what were our fairs an' rants    !



      E'en godly meetings o' the saunts
                          By thee inspir'd,
      When gaping they besiege the tents
                          Are doubly fir'd.
                         POETRY.                                 279


That merry night we get the corn in,
O sweetly then thou reams the horn in                    !




Or reckin', on a New- Year mornin',
                   In cog or bicker,
An' just a wee drap sp'ritual burn in
                   An' gusty sucker              !




When Vulcan gies his bellows breath,
An' ploughmen gather wi' their graith,
O rare       !   to see thee fizz an' freath
                            I'   th' lugget caup !
Then Burnewin comes on like Death
                 At ev'ry chap.

Nae mercy, then, for airn or steel,
The brawnie, bainie ploughman chiel,
Brings hard owrehip, wi' sturdy wheel,
                            The strong forehammer,
Till block an' studdie ring an' reel
                            Wi' dinsome clamour.

When skirlin' weanies see the light,
Thou makes the gossips clatter bright,
How fumblin' cuifs their dearies slight
                  Wae worth the name                         !


Nae howdie gets a social night,
                  Or plack frae them.

When neebors anger at a plea,
An' just as wud as wud can be,
How easy can the barley-bree
                            Cement the quarrel       !


It's aye the cheapest lawyer's fee

                            To taste the barrel.
Alake    !       that e'er my muse has reason
To wyte her countrymen wi' treason              !



But monie daily weet their weason
                    Wi' liquors nice;
An' hardly, in a winter's season,
                            E'er spier her price.
280                      POETRY.

      Wae worth that brandy, burning trash                          !



      Fell source o' monie a pain an' brash                     !



      Turns monie a poor, doylt, druken hash
                               O' half his days;
      An' sends, beside, auld Scotland's cash
                               To her warst faes.
      Ye Scots, who wish auld Scotland well,
      Ye chief, to you my tale I tell,
      Poor plackless devils, like mysel,
                               It sets you ill,
      Wi' bitter, dearthfu' wines to mell,
                               Or foreign gill.

      May gravels round his blather wrench,
      An' gouts torment him inch by inch,
      Wha twists his gruntle wi'a glunch
                               O' sour disdain,
      Out owre a glass o' whiskey punch
                               Wi' honest men.

      O whiskey   !   soul o' plays an' pranks
      Accept a Bardie's gratefu' thanks               !




      When wantin' thee, what tuneless cranks
                         Are my poor verses                             !



      Thou comes they rattle i' their ranks
                               At ither's a               s !


      Thee Fernitosh      !   O sadly lost    !




      Scotland lament frae coast to coast                  !



      Now colic grips an' barkin' hoast,
                               May kill us a',
      For loyal Forbes's charter'd boast
                               Is ta'en awa       !




      Thou curst horse-leeches o' th' Excise
      Wha mak* the whiskey stells their prize                               !



      Haud up thy han', Deil         ance, twice, thrice
                                     !                                              !



                               There, seize the blinkers                        !



      An' bake them up in brunstane pies
                       For poor d      d drinkers.
                           POETRY.                           28l


        Fortune if thou'll but gie me still
                 !




        Hale breeks, a scone, an' whiskey gill,
        An' rowth o' rhyme, to rave at will,
                            Tak' a' the rest,
        An' deal't about as thy blind skill
                                Directs thee best.



                 t)e
                       ffiure   for $11 Care.

                       BY ROBERT BURNS.

No churchman am I, for to rail and to write,
No statesman nor soldier, to plot or to fight;
No sly man of business, contriving to snare
For a big-bellied bottle's the whole of my care.

The peer I don't envy; I give him his bow;
I   scorn not the peasant, tho' ever so slow;
But a club of good fellows, like those that are here,
And a bottle like this are my glory and care.

Here passes the squire, on his brother          his horse;
There, centum per centum, the cit with his purse;
But see you The Crown, how it waves in the air           !



There a big-bellied bottle still eases my care.

The wife of my bosom, alas        !   she did die;
For sweet consolation to church I did fly;
I found that old Solomon
                            proved it fair,
That a big-bellied bottle's a cure for all care.

I   once was persuaded a venture to make;
A letter informed me that all was a wreck;
But the pursy old landlord just waddled up-stairs
With a glorious bottle that ended my cares.
" Life's cares
             they are comforts," a maxim laid down
By the bard, what d'ye caJl him ? that wore the black gown     ;



And faith, I agree with th' old prig to a hair;
For a big-bellied bottle's a haven of care.
282                         POETRY.


      Then, fill up a bumper, and make it o'erflow,
      The honours masonic prepare for the throw;
      May every true brother of the compass and square
      Have a big-bellied bottle when harass'd with care.


                                    ffirtmkenen S)ict)ter0.

                  GOTTHOLD EPHRAIM LESSING.

                EIN trunk'ner Dichter leerte
                  Sein Glas auf jeden Zug;
                Ihn warnte sein Gefaehrte:
                  " Hoer auf    !Du hast genug."
                Bereit vom Stuhl zu sinken,
                                    " Du bist nicht
                  Sprach der:                         klug;
                Zu viel kann man wohl trinken,
                  Doch nie trinkt man genug."

                   Wit Qtaorke be0 llUtne0.

                  GOTTHOLD EPHRAIM LESSING.

                WEIN ist staerker als das Wasser;
                Dies gesteh'n auch seine Hasser.
                Wasser reisst wohl Eichen um,
                  Und hat Haeuser umgerissen;
                Und ihr wundert euch darum,
                  Dass der Wein mich umgerissen?


                    3Ute tmir for Junge tlUin.

                  GOTTHOLD EPHRAIM LESSING.

        IHR Alten trinkt, Euch jung und froh zu trinken,
                   Drum mag der junge Wein
                   Fuer Euch, Ihr Alten, sein.
        Der Juengling trinkt, sich alt und klug zu trinken.
                  Drum muss der alte Wein
                  Fuer mich den Juengling sein.
                          POETRY.                     283


                           bm tUrin.
               GOTTHOLD EPHRAIM LESSING.

            WEIN, wenn ich dich jetzo trinke,
            Wenn ich dich als Juengling trinke,
                Sollst du mich in alien Sachen
        Dreist und klug, beherzt und weise,
        Mir zum Nutz' und dir zum Preise;
            Kurz, zu einern Alten machen.


        Wein, wenn ich dich kuenftig trinke,
        Werd' ich dich als Alter trinken,
            Sollst du mich geneigt zum Lachen,

        Unbesorgt fuer Tod und Luegen,
        Dir zum Ruhm, mir zum Vergnuegen,
            Kurz, zu einem Juengling machen.




                 FRIEDRICH VON SCHILLER.

NIMMER, das glaubt mir, nimmer erscheinen die Goetter,
        Nimmer allein.
Kaum dass ich Bacchus, den Lustigen, habe,
Kommt auch schon Amor, der laechelnde Knabe,
        Phoebus, der Herrliche, findet sich ein.
Sie nahen, sie kommen, die Himmlischen alle,
Mit Goettern erfuellt sich die irdische Halle.


Sagt, wie bewirt' ich, der Erdgebor'ne,
        Himmlischen Chor ?
Schenket mir euer unsterbliches Leben,
Goetter was kann euch der Sterbliche geben ?
        !



         Hebet zu eurem Olymp mich empor          !



Die Freude, sie wohnt nur in Jupiter's Saale;
O fuellet mit Nectar, o reicht mir die Schale     !
284                           POETRY.

      Reich' ihm die Schale   !   Schenke dem Dichter,
               Hebe, nur ein  !



      Netz' ihm die Augen mit himmlischem Thaue,
      Dass er den Styx, den verhassten, nicht schaue,
               Einer der Unsern sich duenke zu sein.
      Sie rauschet, sie perlet die himmlische Quelle,
      Der Busen wird ruhig, das Auge wird helle.




                   FRIEDRICH VON SCHILLER.

                      VIER Elemente,
                        Innig gesellt,
                      Bilden das Leben,
                        Bauen die Welt.

                      Presst der Citrone
                        Saftigen Stern        !



                      Herb ist des Lebens
                        Innerster Kern.

                      Jetzt mit des Zuckers
                        Linderndem Saft
                      Zaehmet die herbe
                        Brennende Kraft           !




                      Giesset des Wassers
                        Sprudelnden Schwall               !


                      Wasser umfaenget
                        Ruhig das All.

                      Tropfen des Geistes
                        Giesset hinein    !



                      Leben dem Leben
                        Gibt er allein.

                      Eh' es verduftet,
                         Schoepfet es schnell         !


                       Nur wenn er gluehet,
                         Labet der Quell.
                  POETRY.                           285


   DIE stille Freude wollt ihr stoeren ?
     Lasst mich bei meinem Becher Wein          !




   Mit andern kann man sich belehren,
     Begeistert wird man nur allein.
                  JOHANN WOLFGANG VON GOETHE.


 Aus dem Feuerquell des Weines,
   Aus dem Zaubergrund des Bechers
     Sprudelt Gift und suesse Labung;
 Sprudelt Schoenes und Gemeines:
   Nach dem eig'nen Wert des Zechers,
     Nach des Trinkenden Begabung.

 In Gemeinheit tief versunken
   Liegt der Thor, vom Rausch bemeistert;
 Wenn er trinkt   wird er betrunken,
   Trinken wir    sind wir begeistert   !




 Spruehen hohe Witzesfunken,
   Reden, wie mit Engelszungen,
 Und von Gluth sind wir durchdrungen,
   Und von Schoenheit sind wir trunken      !




 Denn es gleicht der Wein dem Regen,
   Der im Schmutze selbst zu Schmutz wird,
 Doch auf gutem Acker Segen
   Bringt, und jedermann zu Nutz wird.
                          FRIEDRICH BODENSTEDT.



             OTTO ROQUETTE.
DAS war zu Assmannshausen
  Wohl an dem kuehlen Rhein,
Da zog ich frisch und wohlgemuth
  Zum alten Thor hinein.
        Zu Assmannshausen waechst ein Wein,
       Ich meint', das muesst' der Beste sein,
 Der Assmannshaeuser Wein.
286                      POETRY.

      Und als ich kam zum Niederwald,
        Da sah ich Ruedesheim,
      Da war's so lustig und so schoen,
       Ich meint', ich waer' daheim.
              Zu Ruedesheim, da waechst ein Wein,
              Ich meint', das muesst' der Beste sein,
        Der Wein von Ruedesheim.

      Und weiter ging's nach Geisenheim,
        Da baut'ich Huetten gern.
      Doch schon erglaenzt Johannisberg
        O aller Sterne Stern   !



              Ja troeste dich, du armer Wicht,
              Johannisberger schenkt man nicht,
        Als nur besternten Herrn.

      Nun sagt mir eins, ist das wohl recht
       Von dem besternten Tross,
      Dass er den allerbesten Wein
        Dem durst'gen Mund verschloss?
              Das Beste, das im Lande waechst,
              Verschliessen, gleich als waer's verhext-
        Ei, was mich das verdross   !




      Und gebt ihr nicht das Beste gleich,
        Das Gute bleibt uns noch,
      Die bess're Sorte zoegert nicht,
        Das Beste kommt uns doch.
              Drum trinket, bis kein Tropfen mehr,
              Zuletzt muss doch das Beste her,
        Durst sprengt des Passes Joch    !




          TRINKT Wein    !   das ist mein alter Spruch
          Und wird auch stets mein neuer sein;
          Kauft euch der Flasche Weisheitsbuch,
              Und sollt es noch so theuer sein   !




          Als Gott der Herr die Welt erschuf,
          Sprach er: der Mensch sei Koenig hier      !
              POETRY.                               287


Es soil des Menschen Haupt voll Witz,
    Es soil sein Trank voll Feuer sein        !




Dies 1st der Grund, dass Adam bald
Vom Paradies vertrieben ward:
Er floh den Wein, d'rum konnt' es ihm
    In Eden nicht geheuer sein        !




Die ganze Menschheit ward vertilgt,
Nur Noah blieb mit seinem Haus,
Der Herr sprach: weil Du Wein gebaut,
    Sollst Du mein Knecht,      mein treuer sein.

Die Wassertrinker seien jetzt
Ersaeuft im Wasser allzumal,
Nur Du, mein Knecht, sollst aufbewahrt
    Im hoelzernen Gemaeuer sein           !




Mirza-Schaffy !  Dir ward die Wahl
In diesem Falle nicht zur Qual;
Du hast den Wein erkuert, willst nie
    Ein Wasserungeheuer sein      !




                      FRIEDRICH BODENSTEDT.
Jigura JnWcate   % -Number %
                        of     SDrink.)
290                                   INDEX.


Blackberry Wine, English. 498     .         Claret   Punch            126, 34i
Blue Blazer, The Old Style. 36                          cold                   340
Bon-Appetit                 13                        English                  339
Bon Boire, Le                         117   Clove Cordial                      254
Bowl a la Parisienne                  466   Club Cocktail                       29
Brahmapootra                          118   Coffee and Rum                     132
Brain-Duster, The                      17   Coffee Liqueur                     255
Brandy, Hot                            37   Cognac                             256
    Crusta                            119   Columbus Punch                     131
    Punch, English                    331   Confession of Love                 342
      Rose                            120   Correspondent, The                 133
      Toddy                           121   Cosmopolitan Cooler, The.      .
                                                                               129
Bridge Bracer, The                    122   Crambambuli                        343
Bristol Punch                         332   Cream Fizz                         101
Broker's Thought, The                 123   Cream Punch a 1'Amerique.          344
Bunch of Violets                      223   Crown, The                         136
                                            Curacao                            257
                                                Punch                          137
                                            Currant Bishop                     480
Calla Lily                           125        Lemonade                        7i
Campichello Punch                    335        Metheglin                      259
Cardinal                   441, 442, 443        Ratafia                        258
Cassis Liqueur                       242        Shrub                          345
      Ratafia                        243        Wine                           500
Catawba Cobbler                        91             in the English Style SGI
Celery Bowl a 1'Amerique.         .
                                      444
Champagne Beer                        490
      Bowl                            447   Dandelion Wine, English.   .   .
                                                                               502
      Cobbler. .   .   ;
                                       92   Delicious Sour, The                  4
      Creme                           337
                                            Duplex, The                        140
      Cup                             130
      Punch
Chartreuse
                                      336
                                      244
                                                               E
Chat, The                             338   Easter Crocus                      134
Cherry Bishop                479            Egg Beer                  115, 491
    Brandy, English .. .247, 248               Grog                            346
    Cordial a la Franaise                        Liquor                        348
        245                           246      . Milk Punch                    349
      Essence, wild                   314       Nogg                           142
      Lemonade                         67             General Harrison's. 141
          (for the sick)               68             Punch               350
      Ratafia         249, 250, 251             Punch                 347, 351
    Sherbet                          69               cold                     352
Chocolate Punch                     127         Wine                  354, 355
Christophlet                        252               cold                     353
Cider                               499     Elder Brandy, English              260
      Bowl, English            445, 446         Wine                           503
Cinnamon Cordial                    253     Encore                             145
Citronelle                   70             English Ratafia, Red"              261
Claret Bowl, English ...... 449             "Evening Sun, The                  217
      Cobbler                          94   Exquisite                           18
      Cup                             128   Eye-Opener                         143
                                   INDEX.                                          291

                                         Holland's Pride                            22
                                         Holland Punch             .
                                                                    369.   .   .



Fancy Hot Sherry                    48   Honey Wine a la Russe.     507.   .   .



Fig Sherbet                         73   Hong Kong Punch        38, 370
Fin du Siecle, La                  147   Hoppelpoppel, cold         371
First One, The                      19                  hot         372
Fletsch                            359   Hop Ratafia, English       269
Flip                               360   Hot Wine              373, 374
Forget-me-not                      150       a la Francaise         375
Foundation, The                    144   Hunters' Punch             376
Frapp6 a la Guillaume     151
French Ratafia aux Quatre
       Fruits                 262, 263
Fruit FrappS                             Iced Lemonade                              75
                                   153
       Punch                                 Punch                                 377
                                   361
                                         Imperial                                   76
                     G                   Imperial Fizz
                                             Punch
                                                                                   100
                                                                                   378
Gem, The                                 Invitation, The                           166
                                   157
                                         Iva Liqueur                               273
George IV. Punch                   362
Gilmore Punch                      160
Gin                               264
    Bowl, English                 450
                                         Jack Frost Whiskey Sour.          .   .     i
       Fizz, Plain
                                         Jamaica Rum a la Creole.
                                   95
       Puff
                                                                           .   .
                                                                                   167
                                  159
       Punch                             John Collins                              168
                                  365
                                         Judge, The                                155
Ginger Beer                       492
       Cordial                           Juniper Cordial                           274
                                  265
       Pop                        493
       Wine               ,
                                  504
Gingerette                        266
                                         Kajowsky                       275
Giroflee                           366   Kaleidoscope, The              169
Gladstone, The                      20   Knickerbocker                  1 70
Glasgow Punch                     367    Kiimmel                   276, 277
Gloria                            494    Kvass                                     495
Glorious Fourth, The               161
Golden Fizz                         97
Gooseberry Lemonade                 74
       Wine                        505   Ladies' Delight                           139
              Sparkling            506       Great Favorite, The                   171
Grand Royal Fizz                    99       Punch                                 379
Grenoble Ratafia                   267               hot                            4i
Grog                               368   Lafayette Flip                            148
                                         Lait de Poule                 39,         172
                                         Lemonade, boiled                           77
                                             Gazeuse                                78
Hannibal Hamlin                    162       Italian, hot                           40
Happy Moment                      163               cold                            54
Heart's Content                   164        Parfait                                61
Hip Liqueur                       268        Seltzer                                57
Hippocras                         451        Soda                                   56
Holland Gin Cocktail                21       Strawberry                             58
292                                    INDEX,


Lemon Bishop ............. 481               Noyeau                             286
      Punch ............ 380, 381            Nuremberg Punch                    397
      Ratafia ................ 278
            English ......... 279
    Wine ................. 508
Life-Prolonger, The ........ 203             Opal, The                           25
Lily Bouquet, The ........ 124               Opal, Imperial                      24
Linden Blossom Bowl ..... 452                Opera, The                         183
                                             Orange Bishop                      484
                M                                Bowl                           460
                                                 Brandy, English                287
Magenbitters ..... ..... 280, 281                Cardinal                       461
Maiden's Kiss, A .......... 173                  County Pride                   184
Malinverno Punch ......... 382                   County Punch                   185
Manhattan Cocktail ........    23                Flower Ratafia                 288
      Cooler, The ........... 174                Lemonade                        79
      Punch ................ 383                         hot, with     Brandy    42
Maraschino ............... 282                   Liquor                         289
      Punch ......... ....... 384                Punch                          398
Maurocordato ............. 385                   Sherbet                         80
May Bowl ......... 453, 454, 455                       Turkish                   81
Mayflower, The ........... 152                   Wine                           509
Mayor, The ............... 175               Orgeat                             462
Mecklenburg Punch ---- 386, 387              Oriental Brandy Sour                 5
Medical Drinks ........ 226, 227
Melon Bishop ............. 482
Militia Bowl ............. 456
Milk Lemonade, English ... 72                Palate Tickler                     186
     Punch, warm .......... 392              Pansy Blossom, A                   116
          English. 388, 389,           390   Parfait Amour               290, 291
          Finland .........            391   Paymaster, The                     i88
          Our ............             176   Peach Bishop                       485
Mint Julep ................            178       Bowl                           463
          strained .........           177       Brandy                         316
    Liqueur ..............             283       and Honey                      189
Morning Delight ..........             180   Pear Champagne                     510
Mulberry Bishop ..........             483       Sherbet                         82
My Hope .................              165   Persian Sherbet                    83
                                             Persico                      292, 293
                                             Piazza                             190
                                             Pineapple Bishop                   486
Nalifka ................... 284                  Julep                          191
Nap, The ................. 181                   Punch                          192
Nectar .................... 457              Poem, The                          193
    in the English Style. 458, 459           Pomegranate Sherbet                 84
    Punch a 1'Amerique.    .
                               393
                               .   .
                                             Pope, The                          44
Negus ................ 394, 395              Porter Bowl, English               465
Ne Plus Ultra ............. 179                  Flip                           156
New Orleans Punch ........ 182                   Sangaree         -.
                                                                                194
  New York Herald, The ". 187                Port Wine Punch                    400
Nonpareil Liqueur ......... 285                      Sangaree                   195
Norfolk Punch ............ 396               Pousse Cafe                        200
                                   INDEX.                        293


Pousse 1'Amour                     198   Rice with Wine          488
Premiere, La                       202   Roman Punch             209
Preserver, The                      26   Rose Ratafia            300
Press, The                         197   Rose-Hip Lemonade        88
Primrose, The                      196   Rosoglio                301
Prince of Wales Punch              399   Royal Fizz               98
Promenade                          199       Punch               417
Punch, American                    322   Rum                     302
    a la Bavaroise            404            Flip                469
    Burned, English           334            Liquor              303
    Burning                   333            Punch               418
    a la Creme                403        Russian Punch           419
    a la Diable               401
    a 1'Empereur
                                                          S
                              402
    English         356, 357, 358        Saffron Liquor          304
    a la Ford                 405        Sangaree, West Indian   474
    a la Frangaise       406, 407        Sans Souci              212
    a la Regence              408        Sapazeau                420
    a la Reine                409        Scotch, Hot              44
    a la Romaine         410, 411            Delight              47
    a la Tyrolienne           412        Senator, The            213
                                         Shandy Gaff             214
                   Q                     Sherry Bowl             448
                                             Cobbler              93
Queen of Night              204              Filler
        of Sheba                                                 146
                            205
  uince                                       Flip               149
eueen Liquor           294, 295          Sillabub
                       ....                                      470
Quince Liquor, English      296               red
     Ratafia, French
                                                                 471
                            297          Silver Fizz              96
                                         Sitting Bull Fizz
                   B                     Sloe Wine
                                                                 103
                                                                 516
Rainbow, The                       206   Snow Ball, The          215
Raisin Sherbet, Turkish. ...        85   Snow Flakes             421
    Wine                 511, 512        Soda Cocktail            27
          in the Hebrew Style 513            Lemonade             56
Raspberry Bishop                   487   Sour a la Creole          2
    Bowl                           467   Southern Cross, The     135
    Lemonade                86           Spiced Rum, hot          50
    Lemonade with Wine.    .
                            55 .
                                         Spiced Wine             517
    Punch             413, 414           Sporting Punch          422
    Ratafia                        298   Steel Punch             423
               French              299   Stomach Essence         305
    Wine   .
                                   514   Strawberry Bishop       489
               English             515       Bowl                472
Red Wine Punch, hot                 43       Liquor              306
Reliever, The                      207      Punch                424
Reminder, The                      208      Wine                 518
Requiem, The                       211   "Sun, The"              216
Reseda Bowl                   468        Sure Relief, A           45
Reverie                       210        Swedish Punch            49
Rhine Wine Punch         415, 416        Sweet Bowl              473
Rhubarb Sherbet                87        Sweet Calamus Liquor    307
294                               INDEX.


               T                                       W
Tansy and Gin                 218       Walnut Liquor          311, 312
Tea Punch, German. .363, 364
                     .   .
                                        Washington Punch               429
" Texas Sif       "
            tings   Punch. .. 425       Weeper's Joy, The               31
Tip-Top Sip                   220       Whiskey                        315
Tom and Jerry                    219        Cocktail                    32
Tom Collins                      222        Cordial                    313
Tom Gin Cocktail                  28        Daisy                        7
                                            Frappe                     154
               U                            Punch                      430
Uhles                        426                Genuine                158
United Service Punch         427            Sling                      225
Usquebaugh, Irish. 270, 271, 272            Sour                         6
                                                a la Guillaume ....      3
                                        Whist                       431
Vanilla Liquor               308, 309   William's Summer Cooler.   .
                                                                    224
Vermouth Cocktail                 30    Wine Lemonade                89
Vespetro                         310        Sherbet                  90
Vie Parisienne, La                221   Wischniak                   519
Vin Brule                               " World's "
                                 428                Morning Delight 138
Violet Fizz                       102   "World's" Pousse Cafe,
Violet Lemonade                59, 60           The                .201
                         NKW

         FOR SALE BY BOOKSELLERS.
                 Sent postpaid on receipt of price.




LIFE OF JANE WELSH CARLYLE,
         By MRS. ALEXANDER IRELAND.
                  8vo   330 PAGES    PORTRAIT.

      The publication of this book is a literary event. It

is   a remarkable biography of a wonderful woman, written
and compiled by one in thorough sympathy with her subject,
from material made public for the first time. The powerful
side-light it throws upon the life and character of Thomas
Carlyle will make the volume indispensable to all who ven-
erate the genius, or are interested in the personality, of the

Sage of Chelsea.
       Vellum cloth (half bound}, gilt top)   -       -
                                                          $i 75
                   THE TABLE:
HOW TO BUY FOOD, HOW TO COOK IT, AND
          HOW TO SERVE IT.
              By ALESSANDRO FILIPPINI,
                         Formerly of Delmonico's.

One Volume, Octavo, 507 Pages, and Portrait of Author.
       1,550 different recipes: 132 Recipes for Soups, 100 Re-
       cipes for Sauces, 76 Recipes for Cooking Eggs, 40
       Salads, 300 Desserts.   MENUS FOR EVERY DAY OF THE
       YEAR AND EVERY MEAL OF THE DAY                   365 BREAKFASTS,
       365 LUNCHEONS, 365 DINNERS.
     For twenty-five years Mr. Filippini has been with Delmonico, and
is   now manager of the branch house at 341 Broadway.          Many people
seem to think that, because this book is written by Delmonico's
former manager, the recipes in it are only adapted to the most elab-
orate style of living; both the author and publisher foresaw this ob-
jection, and so were careful to make this book inclusive       to give all
the most ordinary and homely recipes, as well as the most elaborate
foreign dishes.     For that reason it is adapted to the humblest as well
as the most expensive style of living.
    This work is endorsed by the Dclmonicos. Mr. Filippini's experience
in culinary art is probably greater than any living man's. The results
of a lifetime of careful study are here embodied.          It is infinitely
greater than a mere cook-book, for while it gives many more recipes
than any other work of the kind ever published, at the same time it
contains invaluable advice as to how to buy what is best and most
economical, and how to dress a table and serve meals.        In large fam-
ilies the price of the work can be saved daily by following Mr. Filip-

pini's suggestions.    One of the exceptional features of this book is
the fact that it is adapted to the humblest as well as to the grandest
style of living.    No matter where placed it will pay for itself many
times over.
   As soon as the first edition of 13,000 was exhausted, a supplement
was added, containing a valuable chapter on table etiquette, nearly
200 new recipes, including those for making all kinds of bread, for
the famous New      ngland mince pie, and for many new desserts and
different cooling drinks.   This book is not only the result of practi-
cal experience,   but it has been put to a practical test in thousands of
private families, hotels, and restaurants, and we have yet to hear of
a single complaint against it; while the encomiums pronounced upon
it have been enthusiastic and far too numerous to quote.


       Kitchen edition, in oil-cloth,     -
                                                               $2 50
       Presentation edition, in full seal Russia, mar-
         bled edges,     -      -"                  -      -
                                                                4 50
THE PERIL OF OLIVER SARGENT,
   By KDQAR JANES BLISS.
             i2mo        217 PAGES      FRONTISPIECE.
   The most remarkable and thrilling story since " Dr. Jekyll
and Mr. Hyde," which it resembles, in that it treats of the
dual character of man, and the separation and development
of these characters, until one of them gains control and leads
the victim through awful experiences until he is finally res-
cued by accepting the teachings of Christ.

     Stamped doth,                                  $i oo
                     -
     Paper cover,                                      50




Tinkletop's Crime         and Other Stories,
        By          GEORQE
                       "
                            R. SIMS,
                  Author of     A Drama of Life" etc.
             12010315 PAGES             FRONTISPIECE.
  These   stories   show      this   well-known author    at    his    best.
They are wonderfully clever.           Most of the    stories    are    hu-
morous, though a few are deeply touching and pathetic.
    Stamped cloth,                                         $i oo
                          -
    Paper cover,                                                  50




My Life with Stanleys Rear Guard,
     By HERBERT WARD,
                         One of Stanley's Captains.
                    i2mo      300 PAGES      MAPS.
  A little volume, that in interest and importance ranks
second only to Stanley's own work.
    Fine cloth,      -
                                                           $i oo
                          -
    Paper cover,                                              50
HEW HOLIDAY SET OF MARK TWAIN'S
 THE PRINCE AND THE PAUPER.
  ADVENTURES OF HUCKLEBERRY FINN.
  CONNECTICUT YANKEE IN KING ARTHUR'S COURT.
  These are the three most popular of Mark Twain's stones.
They are specially bound, profusely illustrated, square octavo,
and uniform in style.
                              ....
                        Sold only in sets.
    Set complete, in a box,                             oo




  Special edition of the above books, fully    illustrated   and
handsomely bound, sold separately:
  THE PRINCE AND THE PAUPER,         -
                                                      $3 oo
  ADVENTURES OF HUCKLEBERRY FINN,            275
  CONNECTICUT YANKEE IN KING ARTHUR'S COURT, 3 oo

  CHEAP EDITION OF HUCKLEBERRY FINN,                  $1 00
   WORKS BY MARK TWAIN.
LIFE ON THE MISSISSIPPI.              An Octavo Volume of
     624 Pages, and over 300 Illustrations.
  Among his native scenes, he here describes his own early
experiences; what he did and saw, felt and suffered; the
wild adventures and daring exploits; the moving incidents
    "
by flood and field;" accidents, explosions, rescues, fights,
murders the thousand romances, comedies, and tragedies
that went on around him.     He combines, as no one else can,
pathos, sentiment and humor.
      In extra cloth, handsomely stamped in black
       and gold, plain edges, -                    $35
THE STOLEN WHITE ELEPHANT, AND EIGH-
   TEEN OTHER STORIES. One Volume, i6mo.
  This book contains some of      MARK TWAIN'S most enter-
taining stories.
                                                   $i oo
               -                        -
     Cloth,

MARK TWAIN'S LIBRARY OF HUMOR. A compiia-
     tion ofgood things by the Prince of Humorists. An
     Octavo Volume of over 700 Pages. Illustrated by E.
     W. KEMBLE.
   Centainly no one is more capable of judging what is hu-
morous than MARK TWAIN. For years he has carefully gath-
ered what has struck him as being bright and amusing, and
in this work he has been ably assisted. This collection has
now been put into book form, and from the great care that
has been bestowed upon it, and owing to the high source
from which it emanates, it must become the standard Library
of Humor.    The cream of American humor, from Washing-
ton Irving to Bill Nye, including the best selections from
Twain's own works.       Ashort biographical sketch of each
author quoted is given.     Kemble's illustrations are in his
best vein, and greatly enhance the value of the book.
     In cloth, plain edges,                        $35
     In full sheep, library style, marbled edges, -
                                                     4 oo
     In red seal, half Russia, marbled edges, -      4 25
     In half morocco, marbled edges, -               5 oo
     In full Turkey morocco, beveled boards, antique
       back and gilt edges,      -
                                                     7 oo
"""-ft LiDrarF of iiericaii Literate ,-'"
                               COMPILED AND EDITED BY
           EDMUND CLABENCE STEDMAN AND ELLEN MACEAY HUTC2IN30N.
       " Librarv                         "
7'/fo?           of American Literature zV M^ Washington Monument
                               of American Letters.
                                    CONTENTS:
  Vol.    I.    EARLY COLONIAL LITERATURE, 1607-1675.
  Vol. II.      LATER COLONIAL LITERATURE, 1676-1764.
  Vol. III.     LITERATURE OF THE REVOLUTION, 1765-1787.
  Vol. IV.      LITERATURE OF THE REPUBLIC, Constitutional Period,
                   1788-1820.
  Vol. V.     LITERATURE OF THE REPUBLIC, 1821-1834.
  Vols. VI., VII., VIII.    LITERATURE OF THE REPUBLIC, 1835-1860.
  Vols. IX., X., XL       LITERATURE OF THE REPUBLIC, 1861-1890.
Fully representing writers that have arisen since the beginning of the
Civil War.     Vol. XI. contains BIOGRAPHICAL NOTICES of all authors
quoted, selections from recent literary productions, and an exhaus-
tive topical index of the entire work.
THE LIBRARY OF AMERICAN LITERATURE. Compiled and Edited by
   EDMUND CLARENCE STEDMAN and ELLEN MACKAV HUTCHINSON.
     In Eleven Octavo Volumes of over 500 Pages each.        Fifteen
     Full-Page Portraits in each Volume, many of which are Rare and
     Valuable.
  A nation lives in its literature, which, unless it be imitative, re-
flects the character of thought of every period  through which the na-
tion passes.   Here is the record of patriotism, of the struggles for re-
ligious and political liberty, and here also we find depicted the daily
life of the people, and the manner in which they were educated, cul-
tivated, and amused.
   The last century, which has seen a few isolated colonies, exhausted
by eight years' revolution, develop into a mighty nation, has also
witnessed the growth of a national literature, a literature keeping
pace with our wonderful material prosperity, and equally a matter of
national pride and national importance.      The truth of this assertion
is made evident by the numerous and increasing demands for a work

embodying in a reasonable compass all that was best and most char-
acteristic in the writings of our authors, a work chronologically ar-
ranged, so that each period of our growth might be reflected in the
writings of its great authors,
   The work is as broad as our continent, and the selections as diver-
sified as our national life. It is strictly a work for the whole people,
not for a class, and is arranged to meet the requirements of all.

                             PXESS COMMENTS.
  These volumes are a substantial addition to popular literature, and make, as they pro-
fess to do, a library of our best American reading for  the people at large. The Atlantic
Monthly, Boston.
  It not only makes the reader well acquainted with the progress of American literature,
but shows him its relations to the life of the people with a vividness and accuracy which
no historian has yet attempted. New York Tribune.
       LIBRARY OF AMERICAN LITERATURE.                                        Continued.
  Earnest gratitude is due to the poet-critic and the charming lyrist whose combined studies
have produced so valuable a work. The Critic, N ew York.
  No popular review, on anything like an appropriate scale, has before been made of our
national literature; for, though in its beginning it was studiously modeled on the parent
source, it has grown to be as distinctly national as any other phase of American develop-
ment. San Francisco Argonaut.
  It is both a pleasure and a privilege to taste of this literary feast, a mental feast unparal-
leled in its completeness and excellence North. American Review

          COMMENTS OF EMINENT LITERARY MEN.
                        From JOHN GREENLEAF WHITTIER.
                                   OAK KNOLL DANVERS, MASS, Sept. 14, 1888.
 The plan and execution seem to me deserving of unqualified praise. A breath of the
New World blows through it.                                  JOHN G. WHITTIER.
      WILLIAM DEAN HOWELLS in the " Editor's Study of Harper' s Monthly
                                                                 '



                                    Magazine, August, 1888.
                  (See the entire article for an admirable digest of the work.)
  In their brief introduction they give us at once the right point of view, and then they
make haste to stand out of the way and let us enjoy a prospect of American literature
which could hardly have been more complete.
               From JOHN BIGELOW, Ex-United States Minister to France.
                                                   21 GRAMERCY PARK, Nov. 22, 1889.
  This library is one thing at least we may exhibit at the Great Fair of 1892, without the
slightest apprehension of any competition from abroad.       I do not know of any greater
tribute that has ever been paid by the nation to Columbus, or indeed can be.
                                                                        JOHN BIGELOW.
                                     From MARK TWAIN.
  If one would think or laugh or cry, or feed his pity or love or charity, or lash himself
into a fury, he may choose his emotion and turn to the things that will lift it to an ecstasy
every time.
  With it on the shelf, one may say to anybody          Name your mood, and I will satisfy its
appetite for you.                                            S       L CLEMENS (Mark Twain).
           COMMENTS OF PROMINENT ED UCA TORS.
                    From Professor JOHN FISKE, of Harvard University
                                                                     CAMBRIDGE, Jan. 25, 1889.
  The book will be of great service to the student of American history and American lit-
erature.            Very sincerely yours,                                JOHN FISKE.
         From Dr. W. T. HARRIS, United States Commissioner of Education.
                                                  DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR,]
                                                      BUREAU OF EDUCATION.
                                                                 WASHINGTON', Dec. 20.
   1 do not see   how any school in America can spare this work from its reference library
for teachers and pupils.
  '
    am sure that every private individual will purchase it for his own library, if he has to
cut off for a time his purchase of other literature. Very respectfully,   W. T. HARRIS.
                            From Professor MOSES COIT TYLER,
                                                  CORNELL UNIVERSITY, May 23, 1888.
  I can truthfully say that I am much impressed by the tact and felicity of the choice
which has been made of these specimens of our literature. Faithfully yours,
                                                                 MOSES COIT TAYLOR.
         From HIRAM ORCUTT, LL. D., Manager Bureau of Education, Boston.
                                                              BOSTON, March 10, 1890.
  The editors of this great work are to be congratulated upon their success, and the gen-
eral public upon the good fortune of having access to so valuable a production
                                                                              HIRAM ORCUTT.
   Extra cloth, with ink and gold back and side stamp, per vol., $3.00
  Plain cloth, gilt top, uncut edges, professional edition, per vol.     j. oo       ,


  Leather, library style marbled edges per vol.
                                ,                   ,
                                                        -     -     -,   4.00
  Half Turkey morocco, marbled edges, per vol.             -     -    -
                                                                      ,
                                                                         j'.oo
  Half Turkey morocco, gilt top     and  back, cloth  sides, and  broad
                               -     -
       margins, per vol.,                                                5.00
   The price is only $3.00 per volume, in the best American cloth
binding,  and we   will  deliver a  complete   set   at  your   house,  express
charges prepaid, on receipt of $3.00, and let you pay the remainder
at the rate of only $3.00 per month, aggregating only ten cents a day.
 LIFE OF POPE LEO XIII.
             From an Authentic Memoir furnished by His Order.

      BY BERNARD O'REILLY, D. D., L. D. (LAVAL.)
Written with the Encouragement, Approbation, and Blessing
    of His Holiness the Pope.   In One Volume, Royal Oc-
    tavo, of about 600 Pages.    Two Colored Plates, Two
    Steel-Plates, and Twenty-two other Full-Page Illustra-
    tions.    Published simultaneously in Six Languages.
    Commended by Cardinal Lucido Maria Parocchi, Vicar
    of His Holiness, Leo XIII. His Eminence, John Cardi-
                                                   ;


       nal Simeoni, Prefect of the Propaganda; His Eminence,
       James Cardinal Gibbons, Archbishop of Baltimore; His
       Grace, the most Rev. M. A. Corrigan, Archbishop of
     New York.
   This book appeals in a peculiar manner to Catholic hearts
throughout the world, coming, as it does, with the approba-
tion, encouragement, and blessing of the Holy Father, and
written from an authentic memoir furnished by his order.
It is of no less interest to the general reader. Emanating
from the high authority and with the approval of the Pope, it
can but echo the sentiments of the Vatican on the leading
topics of religious thought, and the vital social questions
which are agitating the whole world at the present time.
   The life of such a man is necessarily invested with commanding interest for every
student of contemporary history, and light upon it will be welcomed as eagerly by those
who see in him only a prime political and social factor as by those who hold his office in
veneration.     New York Sun.
   The Life of Pope Leo XIII. is in every respect a publication of striking interest as well
as of profound significance. New York Herald.
  A   memorable contribution to contemporary literature, the faithful history of a great
scholar, a great diplomat, a great prelate.      New York Journal.
   The volume is of surpassing interest. San Francisco Bulletin.
   To look at, it is a handsome volume; to examine it carefully, it has been brought out
with all the care that experienced publishers know how to bestow; to read it, it is full of
the most delightful, most interesting information; and to study it critically, it is the result
of a profound knowledge of the times we live in, and of the past from which the present
has sprung. Catholic Standard, Philadelphia.
  The choice of the Rev. Dr. O'Reilly was a happy one.           A  brilliant style, a high degree
of literary ability, artistic taste, thorough knowledge of the world, an imagination that
relieves all he writes  from, any suspicion of dullness, fitted him eminently for the work as-
signed him.     United States Catholic Historical Magazine.
                                                          -
      Fine cloth, elegantly stamped,                           $3 75
                                                    rea edges,  5 oo
      Popular Edition half red seal Russia leather,
                                                                6 oo
      Popular Edition half morocco, marbled edges,
      Popular Edition full Turkey morocco, beveled boards,
         antique back and gilt edges,    -                      9 oo
PERSONAL MEMOIRS OF GEN. I M. T. SHERMAN,
                                 BY HIMSELF.
(With a Military Map, showing the Marches of the United States
    Forces under General Sherman's command.) New Edition, Re-
    vised and Enlarged, with Maps, etc. Two Volumes, 8vo. Four                           ,


       Steel-Portraits.
                                                                   PER VOL.         PER SET.
       Fine doth,                       -            -                 $2 50         $5 oo
       Leather, library style,               -           -         -
                                                                        3 5           7 oo
                                        -            -                                 8 50
       Half Turkey morocco,       " The Great War
                                                                     4 25
                          (See                               Library.")
  The memoirs of this " Old Warrior," covering a period from 1846-65, are certain of a
permanent place in literature. They furnish facts for the historian, and inspiration for the
patriot, and are therefore of living interest. Tribune.
       CHEAP EDITION, One Volume, Complete,           -                               $2 oo
       Fine Copper Etching Portrait of General Sherman,
         by Chas. B. Hall, 18 x 24,      -      .     -                                2 oo




PERSONAL MEMOIRS OF GEN. P. H. SHERIDAN,
                     WRITTEN" BY
Two Octavo Volumes of 500 Pages each.                          Steel and          Wood Engrav-
           Famous Letters. Twenty-Six Maps. An Exhaustive Index.
       ings.
   Sheridan must rank as the ablest cavalry general of modern times,
and his career is as romantic and interesting as it is wonderful. Of
all our great generals, his life was the fullest of adventures, and his
Personal Memoirs reads like a work of fiction. For the benefit of the
military student, and those who want to enter into the details of his
campaigns, he has prepared statistics in the form of notes and maps;
but these are so arranged as not to interrupt the flow of the story.
  His memoirs have the value of an important historical production, and the interest of a
great work of fiction.It is a clear, concise, graphic, and yet simple account of a wonder-
ful life.     New York Tribune.
  The story reads like a romance, though the facts narrated are all hard, fast, and easily
verifiable. .  .  .   The English is that which Csesar would have written had he penned
his Commentaries in the dominant language of the nineteenth century instead of in Latin.
  New    York Critic.
  It tells the story of a heroic life, with a directness and   frankness of purpose, and a sim-
plicity and modesty of expression that cannot be too highly praised.         New York Sun.
  A flowing, modest, fascinating story of great events and deeds.         Brooklyn Eagle.
  Abundance of adventure, stirring incidents, and dramatic situations, such as one is ac-
customed to look for in a Waverley romance rather than in prosaic history or autobiogra-
phy.        Cincinnati Times-Star.
                                                                   PER VOL.         PER SET.
       In cloth, plain edges,       -      -
                                                                       $3 oo         $6 oo
       In ftill sheep, library style, marbled edges,                    4 oo          8 oo
       In half morocco, marbled edges      -
                                                 ,                      5 oo         10 oo
       In full Turkey morocco, beveled boards,
             antique back and gilt
                              " The
                                   edges,
                                            -      -     8 oo                        1600
                         (See         Great War Library.")
       CHEAP EDITION, One Volume, Complete,                                   -      $2 oo
   THE GREAT WAR LIBRARY.
   The original editions of the following works, which consti-
tute the Great War Library, are published by us at the prices
indicated.

PERSONAL MEMOIRS OF GEN. U. S.
                              -
  GRANT,                                 2 vols.,     $3.50 each, $7.00
PERSONAL MEMOIRS OF GEN. P. H.
                  -                  -   2        "                   "       6.00
   SHERIDAN,                                           3.00
MCCLELLAN'S OwN STORY,     -             I   VOL,                             3.75
REMINISCENCES OF W. S. HAN-
                        -            -        "
   COCK, by his wife,                    i
                                                                              2.75
MEMOIRS OF GEN. W. T. SHER-
                           -                                          "
  MAN, by himself, -                     2 vols.,      2.50                   5.00
GENESIS OF THE CIVIL WAR, by
  Gen. Crawford,   -       -             i vol.,                              3.50
TENTING ON THE PLAINS, by the
  widow of Gen. Custer, -                i
                                              "
                                                                              3.50

                                         10 vols.            Total, $31.50

  The prices of these works, sold in sets, will be               :




     In cloth binding, -                                             $30 oo
     In full sheep, library style,                       -
                                                                      40 oo
     In half morocco, marbled edges,          -
                                                                      50 oo

  The immense sales that these books have enjoyed are well
known, and in order that their success may take a practical
shape, we have organized them into a library, and offer the
ten volumes, sent to any address, express prepaid, on receipt
of $2.50, with the understanding that the balance, $27.50, is
to be settled by payments of $2.50 per month.
   If you already own any of the above volumes, their price will
be subtracted from the above amounts. Also a discount allowed
for cash in advance.


     CHEAP EDITION OF SHERMAN'S MEMOIRS,                     -
                                                                     $2 oo
     CHEAP EDITION OF SHERIDAN'S MEMOIRS,                             2 oo

      Each of the above works is complete in one volume.
