When It's
   COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
BOOKS BY THE S A M E A U T H O R :

1924: T H E REAL SARAH BERNHARDT
1926: T H E PARIS THAT'S NOT IN THE GUIDE-BOOKS
1927: T H E FRANTIC ATLANTIC
1928: WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
In Preparation: FROM DEAUVILLE TO MONTE CARLO:
                A Guide to the Gay World of France
       WHEN IT'S
  Cocktail Time
          IN CUBA
              Illustrated




        BY B A S I L W O O N


New York : Horace Liveright : 1928
   Copyright, 1928,
By HORACE LIVERIGHT

Printed in the U. S. A.
             To
      CUBA'S BAD BOY,
 JOSE ESTRADA PALMA,
            IN
MEMORY OF THE VISIT I DID not
     PAY TO HIS RANCH
           AUTHOR'S FOREWORD
THIS book was not written as an "impression" of
Cuba, nor as a guide. I have merely amused myself
by setting down on paper what the tourist to Cuba
will see, do (and drink) in a land where personal
liberty and climate are blended in just the right
setting of beauty and romance.
   I should like here to acknowledge the help I have
received from, and recommend to the reader visiting
Cuba:
         Terry's Guide to Cuba.
         Mr. O'Brien's Times of Cuba.
         The Havana Post.
         The Havana Telegram.
         The Havana News.
and publicly to express my thanks to the following
gentlemen for their invaluable assistance: Mr. John
McEntee Bowman, Mr. Charles F. Flynn, M r . E.
B. Jouffret, Mr. Robert J. Kennedy, Mr. Conrado
W . Massaguer and Mr. Roy C. Hurlbut.
                                   BASIL WOON.
57 rue de Maubeuge, Paris, France.
  July, 1928.
                       CONTENTS

CHAPTER                                                        PAGE
      I.   HAVE O N E IN HAVANA .      .       .       .            1
     II.   T H E DAY BEGINS AT THE SEVILLA .               .       19
   III.    WHERE    EVERYONE     IS DRINKING AND
             NOT A SOUL IS DRUNK!                                  33
    IV.    B U T O N E MUST EAT    .   .       .       .           47
     V.    AND NOW FOR THE RACES           .       .               59
    VI.    W H E N T W O IRISHMEN G E T TOGETHER .                 75
   VII.     A JUG OF R U M BENEATH A COCOANUT
              TREE, A DINNER-DANCE, AND T H O U .    87
  V I I I . Do You COUNTRY-CLUB? AND W H A T is
              CÉSPEDES?                              94
    I X . COCKFIGHTS AND THE CARNIVAL.           A
              NIGHT AT " J A I - A L A I " . . .   .102
     X.    $ 100,000 FOR $29—IF You ARE L U C K Y 117
    XI.    T H E CASINO: "WHERE T H E Y G E T Y O U
              COMIN' AN' GOIN' AN' MAKE Y O U
              LIKE I T "                            .126
  XII.     JUST A LITTLE    BOY RAISED FOR THE
             CHURCH                                            144
 XIII.     NAUGHTY-NAUGHTY NIGHTS .                .       .   159
  XIV.     CHARACTER AND CHARACTERS IN CUBA .                  166
   XV.     CHARACTER    AND CHARACTERS:                THE
             CUBANS                                            184
                            ix
                                                               1
X                       CONTENTS
CHAPTER.                                             PAGE
    XVI.   "SMOKE?"    HOW GOOD CIGARS        ARE
             MADE                                     193
 XVII.     A LIVING HISTORY BOOK . .             .    208
XVIII.     "HAVANA ISN'T    CUBA."    DOWN    THE
             ISLAND                                   222
    XIX.   A L L THE W A Y TO BACARDI TOWN. T H E
              GANG AT CAMAGÜEY .        .  .    .     235
    XX.    T H E RUM T H A T CURED A K I N G — A ND
              PICKLED A NATION    .   .      .      -253
    XXI.   O N E THOUSAND SQUARE MILES          OF
              SUGAR. INTO A SUGAR MILL .             .261
 XXII.     A LOVER'S LEXICON: FIRST AID TO RO-
             MANCE IN CUBA                            270
XXIII.     CUBA, PAST, PRESENT, AND FUTURE       .    278
         LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS
                                                    FACING PAGE

T H E CATHEDRAL, HAVANA                                      4
COLUMBUS CATHEDRAL .       .        .       .        .     12
T H E FOUNTAIN IN THE SEVILLA PATIO .   .       .           20
T H E MALECON                                               28
PRADO, SHOWING SEVILLA BILTMORE HOTEL                .      48
HAVANA RACES AT ORIENTAL PARK       .   .       .           60
T H E HAVANA AMERICAN JOCKEY CLUB   .   .                   68
T H E Two IRISHMEN: JOHN MCENTEE BOWMAN
   AND CHARLES FRANCIS FLYNN .  . .   .                     84
T H E YACHT CLUB TERRACE DURING A T E A -
   DANCE                                                   100
CASINO NACIONAL, HAVANA, CUBA       .                    -132
LOOKING DOWN THE PRADO TO MORRO CASTLE                    164
LEAF TOBACCO ON ITS W A Y TO THE CURING SHEDS             196
MAINE MONUMENT                                            218
T H E YUMURI VALLEY                                       222
T H E PATIO, HOTEL CAMAGÜEY     .   .       .            .238
SANTIAGO BAY      .    .   .        .       .        .    252
When It's
    COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
                       Am. Photo Studios
THE PATIO, HOTEL CAMAGUEY
                    Am. Photo Studios
THE YUMURI VALLEY
                                       Am. Photo Studios
LEAF TOBACCO ON ITS WAY TO THE CURING SHEDS
                        Am. Photo Studios
THE CATHEDRAL, HAVANA
MAINE MONUMENT
                   CHAPTER I
               HAVE ONE IN HAVANA
                           I
ICE coats the backwash of the Hudson. In Chicago
the price of coal has gone up for the second time.
On Fifth Avenue the tops of the 'busses are vacant
of humanity. In the ornate show-windows that the
'busses pass woolens and tweeds have insinuated
themselves in the place of gabardines and light-
weight worsteds. The drug-stores display pyramids
of cough-and-cold remedies, doctors complain of
overwork, and "GRIPPE EPIDEMIC GROWS" menaces
subway crowds reading their favorite thrillpaper.
   Father, developing opposite symptoms from
those which send him to Europe or the Adiron-
dacks in Summer, persuades his doctor to prescribe
a Southern climate.
   Down in Havana Fred Perry, the Elk City Flash,
Father Fate's hired assistant at the Casino, has gone
on the water-wagon. Charles Francis (Napoleon)
Flynn, Grand Instigator of Activities, who can turn
himself off and on like an electric ice-box, is seen at
2       W H E N IT'S C O C K T A I L T I M E   IN   CUBA

 the Jockey Club at 2 p.m., at the Sevilla at 2.05
 p.m., and at the Casino at 2.15 p.m., notwithstanding
 the fact that these places are, even in a Cuban taxi-
 cab, twenty-five minutes apart. Old Man Jackson
 heralds the advent of the season by ceremoniously
 bringing in to the Sevilla B the first free hot lunch
 of the season, thereby occasioning the first reunion
 of the Old-Timers' Club. The taxicab drivers have
 hunted up their "English Spoken" signs and the
 stores on the Prado have busily affixed brand-new
 price-tags. Around the corner from the American
 Club a swarthy gentleman, proud because he is called
"Sloppy," smilingly oils his cash-register.
    Out in Marianao roses are blooming, and the out-
lying fincas are sending the first ripe strawberries to
market.
    A pair of plus-fours appears on Obispo Street and,
as if they were only awaiting this sign (as perhaps
they were), swarms of Syrian bead-merchants invade
the streets, Cuban counterpart of the insistent rug-
vendor of Europe.
    T w o shrewd blue eyes behind round spectacles
appear in the Sevilla lobby and their owner is fol-
lowed by gentlemen with camera, pad and pencil.
"Bobbie" Kennedy, ace in the publicity pack, has ar-
rived—and so, we may presume, has the season:
   It's cocktail time in Cuba.
               HAVE ONE IN HAVANA                    3

                          II

   "Have one in Havana" seems to have become the
winter slogan of the wealthy. The bells of Santa
Clara are sounding auspiciously in Northern ears.
It is becoming fashionable to follow in the footsteps
of Columbus. So thronged with Americans has the
Riviera become that these same Americans are turn-
ing nearer home for something more satisfyingly
foreign, realizing suddenly that only sixty miles
from their own shores is a city so completely exotic
that they may be as superior as they please.
   An American abroad is not happy unless he can
feel thoroughly superior and a sine qua non of this
superiority is that the country he visits should have a
language different from his own. The natives can
thus be berated for their ignorance and dullness of
comprehension. In Cuban educational circles a move-
ment is on foot to so contrive it that every child
speaks English on graduation from high-school.
This is a movement upon which the tourist commis-
sion of Cuba should set a heavy, unscrupulous heel.
If the Cuban children speak English, they will un-
consciously ape the American and succeed at last in
thinking and acting as the American. The boys will
begin to think cock-fighting cruel, and turn to base-
ball, and the girls will no longer seriously consider
4       WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
motherhood at the age of thirteen. I assure you that
I wot—a lot—of what I am saying, and it is my sol-
emn opinion that the future of Cuba touristically
depends not so much upon its climate, as is falla-
ciously believed, as upon the fact that Cuba is a for-
eign—a very foreign—land.

                           III
   Cuba at present has four very distinct appeals to
the American tourist, and I list them in order of
their importance, knowing well that practically every
reader will think I err in not putting Number T w o
first:

   1. It is utterly foreign.
  2. It has "personal liberty" carried to the Nth
degree.
  3. Its climate is among the finest in the world.
  4. Its history is the colorful history of romance
and adventure.

   How foreign is Cuba may be gauged from the
fact that, despite its size, it has only 6,000 permanent
American residents—and opportunities for twenty
times that many. Many an American has come to
Cuba with great ideas and a fortune to be made.
H e will show them. The trouble with these people
is, they're too lazy. They won't work. They
                  HAVE ONE IN HAVANA                          5
haven't any incentive. What do they need money
for—with meals growing on wayside trees and
hardly any clothes necessary? They are thriftless.
They won't save because why pile up a fortune when
one day they will win the lottery? They loaf
around, and can't get anything done. But he will
show them. H e is an American.* Twenty years
later you meet him fanning himself as he sits in his
undershirt on his porch. Fortune? W h o in hell
wants a fortune in this country? He's got enough,
hasn't he? Enough to keep a wife and a flock of
kids and make an annual (summer) trip to New
York. W e l l , what more does a man want in a coun-
try where the breakfasts grow on trees and no over-
coats are necessary? He's no hog—besides, he may
win the lottery. Yes, sir. Have a drink!
   As to personal liberty, it depends upon what your
definition is of that useful commodity. There is a
tradition that if an American should stretch his idea
of personal liberty so far as to playfully drive his fist
against an innocent passer-by's nose, the policeman
arriving, instead of arresting the American, would
merely conduct him back to his hotel and gently but
firmly put him to bed. During the months that I
was in Cuba I always meant to test out this theory,
  * Americans in Cuba are requested to consider these remarks as
applying to the other fellow.—B.W.
6 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
but somehow the appropriate moment never pre-
sented itself. I would go along the street, thinking:
"Here's the man I'd love to hit," and then on closer
view he would turn out to be another American from
Weechaukee, Wis., who had bought me a drink only
that morning. I would spot a nose simply aching
for a skillful right-cross, merely to be restrained by
friends who pointed out that the owner of the nose
was the chief of police and that therefore my ex-
periment, beginning as it did on a biased subject,
would have no real value.
   Not that I should have been afraid to go to the
Havana jail. It is one of the principal tourist sights
of Havana and is quite inviting, outside, while con-
tiguous to the guest-chambers is a first-class bar.
Moreover it shares with the Sevilla Hotel the honor
of dominating the Prado.
   Whatever the truth anent the legend of the kind
Havana policeman may be, it seems that personal
liberty in Cuba may be interpreted as meaning:

   1. You may drink as much as you want to.
   2. Y o u may buy as many drinks for your friends
as you wish.
   3. Y o u may chance your luck at the lottery.
   4. Y o u may lose as much money as you desire
in the Casino.
               HAVE ONE IN HAVANA                    7
   5. Y o u need not carry your marriage certificate
with you.
   6. You may stare at the pretty señoritas because
such staring in Cuba is a compliment—not a crime.
   7. Y o u need no visa to your passport to enter
Cuba; no identity card if you remain.
   8. You must not hit the Chief of Police on the
nose.

   Personal liberty is capable of a great many inter-
pretations. The Spaniard, for instance, thinks Cuba
a land of oppression, because bull-fighting is forbid-
den. But the Cuban laughs at him. Bull-fighting!
That cruel sport! W h y cannot the Spaniard be satis-
fied with cock-fighting? There is, after all, nearly
as much blood. . . .
   When we come to the consideration of climate we
must strive toward absolute truthfulness, because we
know what a boomerang this climate business can be.
With a Californian or a Floridan it is only necessary
to get in the first word, to say: " W e l l , how's your
wonnerful climate?" and all the wind is taken out of
his sails; he has nothing more to say. W e must be
very circumspect. I f we say that the Cuban climate
is perfect our readers won't believe us, and rightly,
for what is a perfect climate anyway? Personally
I think a touch of snow underground and a tang of
8 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
 frost in the air doesn't hurt anyone, providing it
 doesn't happen too often; but then that's only my
 viewpoint. I think the New York winter climate is
great, but my wife—Lord, she will freeze to death
there. Stevenson circled the globe looking for the
perfect climate, and died in a South Seas island in-
fested with mosquitoes. In my youth I heard that
a certain port in Ecuador boasted the finest climate
in the world, but when I got there I was not allowed
to land; there was a quarantine since the third plague
had set in.
    There has been no plague in Havana nor Cuba
during the past fifteen years and there never will be
again, unless God invents something new to worry us
with, thanks to American sanitary astuteness. There
are few mosquitoes in Havana and what few there
are have, it appears, first passed inspection by the
Cuban Health Department and had their fangs
drawn.
    Speaking of mosquitoes, as one will in the tropics,
it is well to consider a great factor responsible for
their annihilation. This is the wind. The wind in
Cuba is not like any ordinary, common-or-garden
wind in the North. It has no individuality, few ca-
prices. It is so regular at certain seasons that the
Cubans set their watches by it. In Oriente province,
at the extreme east of the island, they build their
              HAVE ONE IN HAVANA                   9
houses to present solid walls to the northeast, know-
ing that during ten months of the year the wind
will invariably come from that direction and that it
will never, no matter what the storm, blow from the
southwest. In Havana the trade winds blow with
a regularity surprising to the newcomer, but so re-
liable are they that the local aviation 'drome, Co-
lumbia Field, has no " T " to show pilots in the air
which way to land; by the time of the day the pilots
know which way the wind is blowing.
   During the summer the sea-wind blows steadily
in Havana all day, but towards six in the evening
you will see the inhabitants leave their porches for
screened interiors; the wind is about to drop and
mosquitoes may be feared. But at a quarter past
nine back they come to their porches and, sure
enough, the mosquitoes have all gone: the land wind
is blowing until dawn.
   It is occasionally cold in Havana, especially to
residents and persons accustomed to warmth. One
day last season the mercury actually dropped to 46°
above zero! Every waistcoat in town was in use, and
at night one saw overcoats. This happens about ten
times during the months of December, January and
February. On every other day in the year sea-bath-
ing is a pleasure not to be denied. The average
                             0
temperature of Havana is 8 1 Fahrenheit. In sum-
I O WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
mer the strong night breezes bring coolness, and in
fact the hottest month seldom exceeds in heat the
average temperature of a New York August, and
sultriness is unknown.
    On the south coast of the island the temperatures
are considerably higher and the vegetation in conse-
quence much more tropical. Santiago, sheltered by
the Cobre mountains from the trade-winds, is com-
pletely a tropical city. Yet twenty miles to the
north the palm trees of Nipa Bay are bent uniformly
to the southwest, living evidence of the persistence
and force of the winds which forced Columbus south-
ward so that he discovered the Antilles instead of
the mainland of North America.
    Cuba's is essentially a lazy climate, but thanks to
its constant sea-breezes the heat has no enervating
consequences. It is the ideal climate for the invalid,
seeking saline air for recuperation without chill.
The aged find in it a new hold on life. The sun
shines in Havana on an average three hundred and
fifty days in the year.

                          IV

  The history of Cuba is the romance of the New
World, for Columbus did not discover the United
States, the mainland of North America; he dis-
covered Cuba. True, he died believing that Cuba
               HAVE ONE IN HAVANA                 I I


was part of the mainland of Asia, but that was be-
cause he was himself a romanticist, and set too much
store by the writings of a certain Marco Polo.
    The story of Cuba is the most recent of the ro-
mantic histories, for the full chapter of discovery
cannot be written until roads and railways are built
which permit its proper exploitation.
    Two gallant pages there are in Cuba's history,
one of them the discovery and settlement of the
island by the courageous Spanish adventurers; the
other the glorious war for Cuban freedom in the
dying days of the old century. One black page there
is, when the splendid mantle of the early discoverers
fell to tyrannical Spanish grandees, most of them
sent to Cuba as good riddance from their own land,
grandees who brought the black curse of slavery to
a free people whom they pillaged and tortured in
the name of a king and government which shut their
eyes and ears to the crime.
    Christopher Columbus sighted Cuba on October
28, 1492. On his return to Spain he reported the
discovery of a continent, and Sebastian de Ocampo
was despatched to investigate further. H e circum-
navigated the island and took possession in the name
of Spain. Priests landed by de Ocampo in Santo
Domingo subsequently went to Cuba and in Santiago
12 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
established the first Spanish Mission in the New
World.
   The actual conquest of the island commenced un-
der Diego Velázquez in 1 5 1 1 . Velázquez landed at
Baracoa and immediately set about the pacification
and settlement of the island by Spanish soldiers. H e
founded the cities of Bayamo, Santiago, Puerto
Principe, Sancti Spiritus, Trinidad and Havana.
That is, he founded these cities in a civilized sense;
they existed, most of them, as Indian villages.
Puerto Principe, for instance, was an Indian fishing
village now known as Camagüey, which long before
Columbus came was a town of importance and the
capital of the island.
   Before the first Englishmen were colonizing Vir-
ginia Spanish immigrants, enticed by the tales of
limitless wealth brought home by Velázquez, were
settling in Cuba. Among the most intrepid of these
were the priests. The first farms, dairies and schools
were established by the priests. Their ascendency
over the settlers was complete.
   Cuba was the starting point of the expeditions
which gained for Spain an Empire. In 1518 the gay
and intrepid Hernán Cortés set sail for the conquest
of Mexico, which he effected with six ships filled
with soldiers drafted from the colonists—the most
adventurous expedition perhaps in the annals of his-
COLUMBUS CATHEDRAL
               HAVE ONE IN HAVANA                 13
tory, for so afraid was Cortés of being ordered back
to Spain with the conquest of this rich country only
half begun that he burned his ships, a magnificent
gesture which has echoed down the ages. And in
 1539 De Soto, discoverer of the Mississippi, sailed
an armada from Havana harbor to the conquest of
Florida, which had been discovered by Ponce de
León in 1513 in that navigator's credulous quest for
the Fountain of Eternal Youth.
   These expeditions so drained Cuba of able-bodied
men, horses and oxen that labor became practically
unobtainable. The native Indians were put to work
in the mines and fields, but they were not numerous
enough, and in 1523 occurred the blackest event in
America's history—the beginning of the slave trade.
To remedy the shortage in labor Negro slaves from
the coast of West Africa were imported into Cuba
through Santiago harbor. When these blacks became
sufficiently numerous, in 1544, the native Indians
were facetiously "emancipated." Breeding of the
slaves was a scientific operation with the Spaniards;
fertile Negroes were accorded as many as twenty
wives and were flogged if the resultant number of
children seemed disproportionately few; children
were set to work almost as soon as they could walk.
   The piratical period, most colorful of Cuba's
history, began in the sixteenth century and continued
14 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
until 1825, when the future Admiral David Farragut
won his spurs in the so-called "mosquito fleet" which
drove the pirates from the Caribbean. I say "con-
tinued until," but even now these waters are filled
with rum pirates, and a new "mosquito fleet" of
armored coastguard boats vainly endeavors their sup-
pression.
   The headquarters of the "buccaneers" and "pi-
rates" were at Tortuga and Providence, in the
Bahamas Islands, which today are the liquor store-
houses for the supply of the United States.
   As in these days, there were pirates and pirates.
There were few "legitimate" pirates—skippers
whose hand was lifted against all and sundry, what-
ever their nationality. Most notorious of these were
Howel Davis, Bartholomew Roberts and Major
Stede Bonnet, a planter of Barbados whose quiet life
irked him so that he fitted out a ship and began to rob
and sink other ships on the high seas. H e was hanged
in Charleston in 1 7 1 8 , but not before he had ac-
counted for seven Spanish, three American and two
British ships, and twice raided isolated ports on the
coasts of Cuba, Haiti and Porto Rico.
   There were, however, plenty of "buccaneers."
The original buccaneers got their name from their
trade, forbidden by the Spanish, with the cattle-
raisers of Santo Domingo. These natives were ex-
               HAVE ONE IN HAVANA                    15
pert butchers and their slaughterhouses were termed
"boucans"—hence the name buccaneer. Soon the
term spread to mean anyone whose hand was lifted
against the Spaniards. The Spaniards earned the
hatred of all the peoples of the West Indies by
their refusal to permit free trade. By law the colo-
nists had to sell for fixed prices to their Spanish
masters, the products going to Spain. As a result
of this a number of free-traders sprang up, and as
these were summarily executed on capture by the
Spaniards it became the custom for them to kill any
 Spaniards who came into their hands. From that to
organized expeditions which stormed and captured
 Cuban ports, and looted and sank every galleon they
 could find, was a short step. As Spain was constantly
 at war with England and France these nations cov-
 ered the exploits of their buccaneers with high praise.
 Though many of them were in fact plain pirates,
 they were lauded as heroes.
   The most famous buccaneers were Mansfield and
Morgan. Henry Morgan was an amazing character
who had been kidnapped as a boy in Wales and sold
to slavery in the Barbados. H e escaped from slav-
ery to Jamaica, where his bravery distinguished him
in the eyes of the English governor, who, needing
some Spanish prisoners, one day gave him the com-
mand of a small expeditionary force to Cuba. Mor-
16 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
gan, with only 500 men, sailed for Cuba and, arriv-
ing there, took Puerto Principe and looted it. From
then on Morgan was constantly looting Cuban ports.
H e formed an alliance with Mansfield and together
they stormed and looted Havana. H e would land
with a handful of men and fight his way to the rich
Cuban capital of Camagüey, where the Spaniards
had elaborately strengthened an old Indian fort with
the special idea of resisting him. That fort is now
the Camagüey Hotel.
   Morgan continued his exploits even though Eng-
land signed peace with Spain, and for his pains was
brought back to England under arrest. Finding that
he was a popular hero, however, the King released
him and then knighted him, appointing him Gover-
nor of Jamaica (and was secretly glad, probably, to
see the Atlantic Ocean between them). As Governor
of Jamaica Sir Henry Morgan openly aided the buc-
caneers, especially his own brother, the notorious
Charles Morgan, who was probably the worst scoun-
drel of the lot. It was Captain Morgan's custom to
"marry" his female captives and when he died he
had 116 children, descendants of whom are said to
throng Jamaica today.
   Another famous buccaneer of the Caribbean was
Captain Kidd, who is credited with the invention of
the "jolly roger." After sailing under the skull-
               HAVE ONE IN HAVANA                   17
and-crossbones a number of years, generally in ships
he had captured, he turned privateer, and, after
ravaging Cuba in 1690, was appointed by the British
colonial government on a special mission to chastise
the pirates of the Indian Ocean, who made their
headquarters at Madagascar. Kidd went to Mada-
gascar but threw in his lot with the pirates instead of
suppressing them ; hearing that an expedition had
been sent to capture him he set sail in his ship,
Queedah Merchant, for the West Indies, hiding in
the mountains of Cuba for a year. At the end of this
year, under promise of safety, he returned to New
England, but was arrested there, sent to England,
and there hanged, in 1701. Part of Captain Kidd's
fabulous fortune, of which £14,000 has been re-
covered, came from his marauding expeditions on
the coast of Cuba.
   There were some fifty buccaneers in all with ships
of their own. They ravaged the West Indies, Pan-
ama, the Pacific Coast of South America, and carried
their activities into the South Seas. Tortuga was
their headquarters. Among those constantly assault-
ing Cuban ports were the Frenchman l'Ollonais, who
is alleged to have slain 90 Spaniards the same morn-
ing with his own sword ; John Coxen, Sawkins, Sharp
and Waiting, who later transferred their activities to
Panama and Peru; John Cook, the famous pirate of
18 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
the South Seas, and his successors Edward Davis and
Captain Swan, and John Townley. Descendants of
Townley live in Havana today.
   T o the imaginative tourist the ghosts of golden
galleons ride at anchor in Havana Bay, and, look-
ing up at the frowning walls of Morro Castle and
Cabanas Fortress, one has a glimpse of these walls
belching flame and round cannonballs as the ships of
daring marauders land their ruffian crews. As the
boat from Key West or New York docks a few yards
from the spot where the Maine was sunk, may you be
dominated by your imagination rather than by your
thirst. Four centuries of romance are concentrated
in the quaint old city which awaits the pleasure of
you and your friends, latest in the long list of in-
vaders of the Spanish Main.
                   CHAPTER II
         THE DAY BEGINS AT THE SEVILLA
                          I
T H E Sevilla-Biltmore is to Havana what the Ritz is
to Paris, headquarters of the wealthy pleasure-
seeker. It is one of those rare hotels with what
people like to call an "atmosphere."
   Atmosphere in the case of an hotel is an intangible
thing to define and is almost always accidental; but
it is a very definite asset. Weighed against dollars
and cents it surpasses anything else that the hotel
may have to offer in the way of superlative comfort
or food.
   There are many varieties of "atmosphere." The
old Knickerbocker Hotel in New York was an ex-
ample; the somewhat antipathetic personality of the
man who made it a model among hostelries—Regan
—was no real factor in the success of a hotel which
was really made famous by its clients. On the other
hand, the personality of its directors may count for
more than any other factor in a hotel's "atmosphere,"
as witness the Waldorf of before the war, or the
Stephanie at Baden-Baden.
                          19
20 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
   Extreme sophistication makes the Paris Ritz
unique among hotels, a sophistication earned by the
gathering there of the bored and blase of the earth.
It is a sophistication somewhat awesome to the aver-
age newcomer with a wholesome viewpoint on life,
but the visitor ceases to feel intimidated when he
finds that the Ritz folk are only people who lack
his own capacity for enjoyment because, having
exhausted every thrill, they are reduced to gossip and
champagne.
   The "atmosphere" of the Sevilla has something of
the sophisticated chic of the Ritz, and something also
of the cosmopolitan smartness of the Hotel de Paris
at Monte Carlo—one scents the feverishness in the
air that comes from gambling; eyes here and there
have that same brilliant hardness one grows accus-
tomed to in the casino cities of Europe. The topics
are of racing or roulette: "Jock Meyer brought home
two today." . . . "I had that good one in the
fourth." . . . "What'd you do to them at the Ca-
sino last night?" . . . "Lost like a fool, that guy
Bétancourt has all the luck!"
   But there is another something in the Sevilla
atmosphere that gives it individuality, a subtle some-
thing born on the threshold of the Tropics. Y o u are
at the gates of
          THE DAY BEGINS AT THE SEVILLA               21
          . . . those lands where the dawnings
             Are poured from a seething mould
          And the billowing crest of the jungle
             Is drenched in a flood of gold. . . .*

Over the hum of conversation and the chink of ice
in glasses you hear subconsciously the cry of gay-
hued parrots, the chatter and scream of monkeys,
the monotonous beating of savage tom-toms, the
thousand-and-one mysterious noises of the coral-
bounded islands where romance and adventure out-
weigh the scales against disease and death.
   And—not so far away as you may think. Over-
night from Havana lies the impenetrable jungle;
overnight only, and you are on one of the world's
last frontiers. And the tom-toms of Voodoo land
are still the chief instrument in Havana's orchestras.
Here and there through the patio and the long bar-
room are men with calm eyes but restless spirits, their
bronzed faces lined with the scars of recurrent
malaria, their lean bodies toughened and muscled by
long battling with the tropical wilderness; men who
have sunk shafts for minerals with death at their
heels, others who have tamed long stretches of
steaming jungle with steel rails, others who have
fought and conquered in humanity's own eternal
battle with disease. They are men with the Tropics
 * Randolph Atkin's "The Spell of the Tropics."
22 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
in their blood. Many times they have sworn, each
man of them, that this time they will "get out and
stay out," but always the lure wins and here they
are, on the fringe of it all again.
   Havana is a meeting-place of the world's ad-
venturers and headquarters of the tragic order of
Tropical Tramps, and between quests the aristocrats
among them haunt the Sevilla patio and bar. It is a
strange mingling this, of worldly-wise men and
women and bronzed travelers of the never-never
lands; of monocled men and beautifully-dressed
women of fashion and somber, stern-faced pioneers
of the jungle. Parsimonious with their talk, shy of
reminiscence, most of these latter are, but every now
and then you hear a phrase or two: "Down in Bogota
that time with Suarez . .      "Oh, Bill went native
—got a Chula up from Guayaquil . . ." "Jim
bought a farm in Ohio? The hell you say! But I
saw him last March in St. George's on his way to
Caracas . . ." "Me? Oh, I'm headed for Mara-
caibo; there's a road buildin' over to Altagracia and
they wired for me to come . . ."

                         II

   The Old-Timers' Club meets twice a day at the
Sevilla. They are a fine bunch of men and if the
limitations of space and acquaintance did not forbid
        THE DAY BEGINS AT THE SEVILLA              23
I would like you to meet them all. Presiding over
the long mahogany are the two whose acquaintance
it is probable you will make first of all, for they are
the bartenders: Eddie Woehlke, who came to Ha-
vana from New York via Paris, who has a French |
wife with a modiste's shop, Marcelle's, of her own
in New York, and whom pre-war residents of Paris
will recall as thirst-dispenser at the Plaza-Athenée;
and Fred Kaufman, originally of Liverpool, but a
traveler of the Tropics so long that he talks English
with a Spanish accent. Kaufman is never happy
unless he is on an island. H e was born on one, and
has since worked in Funchal, Madeira, and the
Canary islands. Kaufman is the inventor of several
cocktails in which pineapple juice is the chief in-
gredient, and Eddie's mint-julep, with the ice-chunks
clinging to the glass outside, is a drink to cause any
Southern gentleman to yelp the rebel yell.
    You may see James ("Jim") Ellis, a heavy-set
Floridan of imperturbable dignity, who came to
Cuba in '98; Francis A . Kinsey, a Camagüeyans who
looks like Abraham Lincoln; the courtly Charles
Echevarria of the United Fruit Company, who knows
Havana since '84; Colonel Robert E. Hollings-
worth, attorney and Georgian, known to his friends
as " H o l l y , " a sparkling after-dinner talker and a
resident of Havana since 1898—thinks Havana and
24 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
Atlanta are the only towns that count; Enrique
Berenguer, Rotarian and plus, with the physique of
a giant and a Napoleonic head, a scintillator at public
receptions and a favorite with the ladies; or Charles
A. Dwinnell, with the Sphynx look of an Italian
prestidigitator, who is always leaving Cuba but as
always coming back. A man whom his friends call
too respectable.
   You may see A. D . ("Pop") Roberds, an Indianan
who was a newspaper man in the county-seat fights of
Kansas, and a pal of William Allen White, and who
still writes editorials for his Evening News with a
six-shooter handy—from sheer force of habit.
" P o p " came to Cuba in 1900 and has done some
trenchant things for Havana in an editorial way.
The Platt Amendment is his decalogue. With his
old straw-hat on the back of his head he looks like
Benjamin Franklin but talks like a mining-camp
hotelman. " P o p " Roberds is the man who called
Joe "Sloppy" and made him famous, and I hope Joe
is properly grateful. But I'll bet he isn't.
   There is Roy Hurlbut, a tropical wanderer an-
chored at last with a beautiful wife and a baby.
Roy has mined in the Andes, harvested rubber in
Honduras, built railroads in Costa Rica, held sur-
veyors' stakes in Peru, prospected for diamonds in
South Africa and Brazil, soldiered in the Philippines
        THE DAY BEGINS AT THE SEVILLA              25
and Mexico, and was in a Chilean port when the first
rain for six years fell and Hurlbut, broke to the
wide, insisted on and ate the free meal promised
by the hotels there "on any day the sun never shines."
Hurlbut says he was so hungry he took in every
hotel in turn. "That day," he says, "the desert
turned green and ships' captains making the port
thought they had missed their way." Hurlbut
fought for Cuban independence, and now has the
business end of several publications. He knows more
about Cuba than any American I talked to.
   W e have spoken of the railroad-builders of the
Tropics. Here is one of the greatest: Albert B.
Jekyll, formerly of the famous firm of May, Ran-
dolph and Jekyll. May was the financier, John H .
Randolph the iron-jawed man who sent the steel
through, Jekyll the estimator and builder. Theirs
was no ordinary railroad building. They levelled
the grade through thick jungles, over hitherto im-
passable mountains, where the foot of a white man
had never trod before. They had the scarcity of
skilled labor, the difficulty of unknown terrain, the
hostility of savage tribes to harass them, but chiefly
their enemy was the fever and its attendant agent
the Bottle—if one did not get the white men who
worked for them, the other would. They opened up
thousands of square miles of virgin territory in
26 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
Guatemala, Honduras, Costa Rica, Mexico, Panama,
Ecuador and elsewhere. Wherever there was a job
of railroad building no one else would tackle they
sent for May, Randolph and Jekyll, and these three
put the job through, bearding the wilderness with a
tool in one hand, a gun in the other, and their pockets
filled with quinine. They built the Madeira-Ma-
mora railroad in Brazil, 2,700 miles up the Amazon,
to join the Amazon with the Tapajos so goods could
be shipped south to the River Plate, one of the most
terrible engineering achievements in all history.
Fifty million capsules of quinine were used during
the building of the road and it was said that when
finally it was finished there was a dead man for every
cross-tie laid.
   M a y has been dead these seven or eight years,
but Randolph and Jekyll are alive yet, and the latter,
white-haired now, has only recently felt the call
again, quit the island of 600 acres that he owns in
Camagüey province, and gone off to Brazil again.
Another contract, another job of work to be done.
" H e ' l l leave his bones there," said the old-timers
when they wished him an affectionate farewell.
   During your weeks in Havana you will meet many
more of the old-timers who have helped make Cuba
and the Tropics fit for the white man to live in. It
         THE DAY BEGINS AT THE SEVILLA               27
is fitting that their names and records should be
written plain for future generations to know.

                          III
   Through the Sevilla lobby at "tea"-time (one or
two Havana visitors do actually drink tea) flows the
social tide, as colorful and brilliant here as Europe
at its gayest, especially during those all-too-few
weeks that have come to be known as "the season."
   The season is lengthening year by year and in
time to come will probably last from November to
April, for during these six months the weather is
dry and well-nigh perfect. The snobbery of society,
with its restless insistence on change, will always have
a "high" season, however, and this begins shortly
after the New Year and culminates at the end of
March. The most notable month is February.
   Havana is crowded with tourists and visitors from
the opening of the racing season, on or about the
ninth of December, to the closing night of the
Casino in March. During these months the Sevilla,
the Casino, the Jockey Club, the Almendares, the
Yacht Club, the Country Club and the Biltmore
Yacht and Country Club do not yield to any
similar places in the world for fashionable chic or
gaiety.
28 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
   Havana is not, like Palm Beach, a parrot-cage of
ostentation. It is rather, like Paris, a city of definite
attraction where smart people go to be amused. The
gaieties of Paris have never exiged a password and
neither have they in Havana. It is not necessary to
bow to the edict of a few rich matrons who in Palm
Beach consider themselves leaders of society, and
whose rule is passively submitted to by a crowd of
wealthy sycophants who have succeeded in turning
the world's loveliest playground into a vulgar com-
munity for the display of yellowbacks. You need no
card of membership to Havana's attractions any more
than you need a chemist on your staff to sample the
champagne that you drink. Cosmopolitans accus-
tomed to the democratic atmosphere of European re-
sorts breathe freely in Havana; there is an absence of
snobbery about the place that is one of the chief
charms of Cannes and Monte Carlo. Y o u need
money—surely—but beyond that your social status
does not count.
   It is for this reason that Havana is becoming a
second home for that section of the smart set which
formerly spent its winters on the Riviera. People
whose names mean front-page as well as society-
page news are returning winter after winter. A
promenade down the crowded Sevilla patio, which
some people find sufficiently entertaining to pass
THE MALECON
         THE DAY BEGINS AT THE SEVILLA            29
 whole afternoons there, would quite likely reveal
Mrs. Vincent Astor at one table, Mrs. Harry Payne
Whitney at another, Lord Rothermere at another,
Major A . J. Drexel Biddle, the Stanley Joyces, the
Rhinelander Stewarts, the Oliver Harrimans, the
Edwin Goulds, the Harry Cushing Thirds at others.
   Will Rogers makes the patio a stamping-ground
annually; so does Samuel G. Blythe, Cyrus H . K.
Curtis—whose yacht is a familiar sight in Havana
Harbor; Nina Wilcox Putnam, Mayor Jimmy
Walker, Thomas Chadbourne, Irenée D u Pont (who
purchased part of Veradero Beach for a D u Pont
Country Club), George Ade, E. R. Oliver, William
E. Corey, the steel king, and S. W . Gumpertz,
"mayor" of Coney Island.
   You may see the Costello sisters, Dolores and
Hélène, or Florence Vidor; M r . and Mrs. William
K. Vanderbilt are constant vistors; so are Ed. Bruns,
E. L . Annenberg and A l Johnson, to mention only
three members of the New York Stock Exchange
who like to play in Cuba. Charles A . Levine and
Mabel Boll, "Queen of Diamonds," were there one
season, the same that saw Charles Lindbergh and
Clarence Chamberlin guests of the city. The Duke
and Duchess of Sutherland and the Duchess of Tor-
Ionia come there, and it is rumored that the Prince
of Wales is to be a visitor in the extremely near
30 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
future. You may see Anita Loos, and her husband
John Emerson ; or George Olsen, tsar of syncopa-
tion; or Colonel E . A . Deeds, the Dayton sugar
magnate. Joe Kirkwood plays over the three Ha-
vana golf courses; Harry Frazee, who owned " N o ,
No, Nanette" and many other successes, is an annual
visitor; one saw, last season, Dwight K. Morrow,
Charles Evans Hughes and Oscar W . Underwood,
American diplomats, and Dr. Marcel Knecht, most
American of Frenchmen and brilliant director of the
Paris Matin.
   George B . Christian, former secretary to Presi-
dent Harding, was there, and James Gillroy, of the
General Outdoor Advertising Company, Bill-Board
King of America. And Sam Rosoff, subway builder,
who created a diversion by bringing his goat mascot
into the patio; and John J. Lyons, a former secre-
tary of New York State; and Albert Howell, Demo-
cratic leader of Georgia; and "Cap'n Billy" Fawcett,
publisher of nine magazines and assiduous foe of
prohibition. Truly Warner, who makes hats, was
there. So was George L e Bouteillier, executive of
the Long Island Railway; and John J. McGraw,
manager of the Giants; and Thomas Bryden Pratt,
financier; and Hiram R. Mallinson, America's big-
gest silk magnate; and Warren Banks, well-known
clubman. And, of course, America's own Nell
         THE DAY BEGINS AT THE SEVILLA              31
Gwynne, the beautiful and alluring Peggy Hopkins
Joyce.
   It's a generous, chattery, comfortable sort of
crowd. They like to see good horses race and they
see no objection, now and again, to a little flutter on
the wheel. They are all foes of hypocrisy and cant
and the silly snobbery of America's self-elected so-
ciety, even though they are members of that society.
   They do not come to Havana because of the city's
fine churches—but neither do they come for a week-
end splurge. They like the town because of its
friendly, tolerant atmosphere; because it is, perhaps,
the closest thing to Paris in a season when Paris is
not available.
   And one can forecast the summer fashions in Ha-
vana months before they are known on Fifth A v e -
nue.
                          IV
   The managerial genius of the Sevilla-Biltmore is
Edward B. Jouffret, ably seconded in a social way
by his wife, one of the most beautiful women in
Havana.
   Jouffret is a small, darkish, nervous man of viva-
cious temperament and French ancestry. H e has a
hard job keeping up to Biltmore standards in H a -
vana, for everything the hotel uses must be im-
32 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
ported, and running a purely American hotel in a
foreign city is always a difficult proposition. That
he has succeeded so signally is a great measure of
the man's ability. Aided, perhaps, by Bowman's
lucky star, Jouffret has turned the hotel into society
headquarters, not only for Americans but for Cubans
as well.
   A word about the hotel, since you will spend so
much time there. It is the tallest building on the
Prado and is built along Cuban lines, the rooms with
high ceilings, tiled floors and various ingenious con-
trivances to ensure a constant draught of fresh air.
For even in January it can be pretty hot during the
daytime in Havana.
   The head waiter (you already know the bartend-
ers) of the Sevilla is Charley, who combines the
build of a prize-fighter with the urbanity of a con-
cert-manager. Head waiters are almost always im-
portant to the traveler, and this one has the grand
manner. Y o u will find that Charley has a great
faculty for remembering your name—and it might
be as well for you to return the compliment and
"remember" him.
                  CHAPTER III
WHERE EVERYONE IS DRINKING AND NOT A SOUL IS
                  DRUNK!
                          I

HAVANA never was what one might call a rendez-
vous of prohibitionists. Back in 1912, in those in-
credibly remote days before the world stopped and
started again, I set out to " d o " every island in the
West Indies, and Havana to my recollection was a
tolerably thirsty town even then.
   Prohibition in the United States may have added
to the number of "American" bars, but the corner
bodega has always flourished. A bodega is part
grocery, part tobacco-shop, and part saloon. Gen-
erally it is a restaurant as well. Someone once said
that there were more seats in Havana's restaurants
than there were people in Havana, and there cer-
tainly are an incredible number of them. Existing
strictly as restaurants they would lose money, for
only a few of them are filled at any hour of the day,
but the bar saves them.
   Every restaurant and nearly every grocery in Ha-
vana is a barroom. There are, it is said, 7,000 of
                          33
34 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
them. Undoubtedly this is why the Havanais are a
sober race.
   Out in an Arizona mining town once I asked a
local character to have a drink and was astonished
to have the white-haired old fellow decline. " N o ,
sirree," he said, " I don't drink no more."
   "How's that?" I asked. " Y o u don't look like
a local-optionist."
   " N o , sir. I don't hold with local-option. I ain't
got no quarrel with liquor as liquor. It's this way.
When I first came to this town there waren't but one
liquor e-stablishment—old Slim Long's, what died
last year, that false-fronted shack down near the
deepot. Well , ev'ry so often I'd sort of go on a
bust and it used to be my boast I could drink more
liquor'n anyone in town. And I could, sir—I could!
   "But thar was a fellow hereabouts at that time
what was jealous of my soo-premacy in this liquor-
drinkin' line an' one day he sort o' sneered an' said
as how I was gettin' to thinkin' I could drink the
hull town dry. I was just fool enough to take him
up. I bet him a hundred dollars I could drink the
town dry, between sleeps.
   "There waren't but the one saloon, and Slim didn't
sell nothin' but rye, there being no one in town at
that time who'd ever heard of any other kind of
liquor, except maybe spig stuff like mezcal or
           WHERE EVERYONE IS DRINKING                  35
aguadiente. But the Mex. saloons was all across
the Line. It was stipulated that they didn't count,
so all I had to do was drink Slim's place dry.
   " W e l l , sir, Slim had sixty quarts of rotgut stowed
away in that shack of hisn, which was about
thirty quarts more'n I'd counted on. But I was a
pretty hefty drinker, 'n' a few quarts more or less
didn't make much difference. I started in on them
sixty quarts of fire-water on a Wednesday afternoon
and by Friday mornin' the town was full of specta-
tors and I was down to the last five bottles. I'll
admit I was a mite wobbly by this time.
   "I began on the first of the five bottles at ten a.m.
Friday, with some ham and eggs. There was three
bottles left when I sat down to supper, and only two
when the boys began pilin' in from M a Jones'
place, where they et. I uncorked one of the two
bottles and took my first drink. For th' benefit of
the gallery—they'd been ridin' in from the range
for a hundred miles around—I smacked my lips.
'Boys,' I says, 'that liquor shore tastes good.'
   " W e l l , I finished that bottle and was just un-
corkin' the last and final bottle when a dee-version
occurs. There's a noise outside and in walks a chap
all lathered with horse-sweat and covered with alkali.
H e sees me sittin' at the table with the bottle an'
come right over.
36 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
   " 'Gimme a drink,' he says, his throat soundin'
like it was dry leather crackin'.
   " 'You-all kain't have no drink here,' says Bud
Jordan. 'Ain't nobody drinkin' except Whitey
here.'
   "The stranger ups and looks at Bud Jordan
mighty solemn, what you could see of his eyes lookin'
all red with blood beneath the alkali.
   " 'Lemme get this straight,' he says, in his cracked
voice. 'I done rid three hunnerd miles since sun-up
yesterday mornin'. I killed two hawses. I ain't had
a drink in twelve hours, nor nothin' to eat in forty-
eight hours.       I'm saddle-sore an' weary.        I'm
cravin' a drink wuss'n any man here ever craved a
drink in his hull life. A n ' you tell me seriously,' he
says, 'that I kain't have no drink here because this
gent's goin' to drink it all up? Boys,' he says, 'hit
don't make sense.'
   " 'Nevertheless,' says Bud, 'that's the idee.
Whitey here, he says he can drink the camp dry.
We-all has bet a hunnerd dollars he kain't. He's
done drunk fifty-nine quarts, 'n this is the last bottle.
E f he drinks it, he wins.'
   " T h e stranger gets very quiet. 'Does I unnerstan'
you c'rectly?' he asks. 'This here is the last—the
very last bottle of rye in this camp, which is the
nearest town in forty miles, 'n' this gent here allows
          WHERE EVERYONE IS DRINKING               37
he'll drink it after havin' drunk fifty-nine other
quarts? Boys,' he says pleadin'-like, 'hit ain't rea-
sonable. You knows it ain't.'
   " 'That's how it stands,' says Jordan—but he ain't
quite got it out when the stranger goes for his guns,
trains one on the boys and the other on me. Then
he reaches over with his head, clamps his jaws on
the neck o' that last bottle o' rye, and tips it up.
There's a long gurgle, 'n then the bottle falls and
breaks while a few of the gents present shot the
stranger."
   The old man paused, as if his tale was finished.
   "And you haven't had a drink since?" I said.
   " N o . The boys allowed I hadn't won the bet,
havin' had help, and that I'd have to do it again.
An' before the next load of liquor come into the
camp they double-crossed me. Jordan, he ups and
starts another saloon.
   " I could drink a lot of liquor in them days, but I
knew when I was beat. I knew I couldn't drink the
town dry with two saloons—so I quit drinkin'."
   Something of the same philosophy may be what
makes Havana such a sober place. You can't drink
7,000 saloons dry, so what's the good of trying?
Moreover, you never need hurry for that second
drink because there's another around the corner.
38 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
There is no possibility of the liquor stocks in Ha-
vana ever running short.

                         II
   It is a fact that Havana is a place where prac-
tically everyone likes his little drink or two, but
where nobody ever seems to get drunk. Slightly
woozy, perhaps, and it may be that now and again a
visitor may even find himself a wee bit foozy, not
to say joozy, but it doesn't happen often and any-
thing beyond the joozy stage is practically unknown.
   The earnest drinkers of Havana have certain pref-
erences in the way of refreshments. The most popu-
lar and most healthful drink is called daïquiri and is
merely bacardi with lime-juice, shaken up until the
shaker is covered with frost.
   The original cane-planters of Cuba and Louisiana
had a drink which they made out of rum and
squeezed limes, ice, a dash of grenadine, and siphon-
water. It was drunk out of tall frosted glasses and
was called "Planter's Punch."
   Planter's punch was the usual drink of the Cuban
Americans, but down in Santiago where a group used
to meet in the Venus bar every morning at eight
o'clock it was modified to exclude the grenadine and
siphon-water, and was made in a shaker. Instead of
Jamaica rum the pure Cuban bacardi, distilled in
          WHERE EVERYONE IS DRINKING                39
Santiago from molasses, was used. The boys used
to have three or four every morning.
    Most of them worked in the Daiquiri mines, the
superintendent of which was a gentleman named
Cox—Jennings Cox. One morning in the Venus
Cox said: "Boys, we've been drinking this delicious
little drink for some time, but we've never named it.
Let's christen it now!"
    The boys milled around a bit and finally Cox said:
"I'll tell you what, lads—we all work at Daiquiri
and we all drank this drink first there. Let's call it a
daïquiri!"
    The daiquiri is now the best-known drink in Cuba.
This recipe for the real daiquiri was given me by
Facundo Bacardi and confirmed by one of the men
who was present at the christening: half one lime,
squeezed onto one teaspoonful of sugar; pour in
one whiskey-glassful of bacardi; plenty of ice;
shake until shaker is thoroughly frosted outside.
Meanwhile, chill a tall wine-glass of the kind known
as flute, fill it with shaven ice, and pour in the mix-
 ture. Must be drunk frozen or is not good. The
 "bacardi cocktail" and pronounced "bacARdi," com-
 mon in New York and Europe, is unknown in Cuba.
 The proper pronunciation of the name "Bacardi"
 stresses the last syllable. Later on, in Santiago, we
 shall see how the rum is made.
40 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
  The two other cocktails mostly in demand in
Havana are the presidente and the Mary Pickford.
The presidente is made with half bacardi and half
French vermouth, with a dash of either curaçoa or
grenadine. It is the aristocrat of cocktails and is the
one preferred by the better class of Cuban. T h e
Mary Pickford, invented during a visit to Havana of
the screen favorite by Fred Kaufman, is two-thirds
pineapple-juice and one-third bacardi, with a dash
of grenadine. Both cocktails are sweetish and should
be well shaken. The pineapple juice must be fresh-
squeezed.
                          III
   The most famous bar for the sweet mixed drinks
so popular with the Cubans is L a Florida, behind the
Asturiano Club on Montserrat Street. Drinks here,
although the place has the appearance of an ordinary
bodega, are as expensive as at the Sevilla or the
Almendares. The bar, which is also a restaurant
and grocery, sprang into vogue due to the remark-
able talents of the head barman, Constantino, a sat-
urnine individual whose peculiar gift consists in his
accurate, though seemingly casual, measurements of
drinks. Six of you visit the Florida and order Mary
Pickfords. A boy is put to work squashing and
squeezing the pineapple. Meanwhile another boy
          WHERE EVERYONE IS DRINKING                 41
fills six glasses with ice to frost them. When the
pineapple juice is ready Constantino pours it into a
huge shaker, takes the bacardi bottle and, without
looking, pours a quantity in the shaker. Then, still
apparently without a glance at the shaker, he does
the same with the curaçoa or grenadine. The drink
is shaken by throwing it from one shaker and catch-
ing it in another, the liquid forming a half-circle in
the air. This juggling feat having been performed
several times, Constantino empties the glasses of ice,
puts them in a row on the bar, and with one motion
fills them all. Each glass is filled exactly to the brim
and not a drop is left over. It's worth a visit to Ha-
vana merely to watch Constantino operate. I told
him that he could make his fortune in Paris. H e
smiled. " I no do so badly here," he said.
   As in Paris, the newcomer to Havana soon "dis-
covers" his own favorite bar and thereafter stoutly
defends it against all others. There is plenty of
choice. One of the famous places frequented by the
younger set of rich Cubans and by American habitués
is the Paris Bar, which is really only a serving bar
for the Paris restaurant. The Paris restaurant is
owned by an old Creole from New Orleans and is
famed for its Creole cooking.
   A place convenient to the Sevilla Hotel—it was in
fact once the Sevilla bar—is the Winter Garden.
42 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
owned by George, who used to be barman in the
Biltmore Hotel in New York. George is an Eng-
lishman. One block up the street is "Sloppy" Joe's,
so George calls his place "Sanitary George's." H e
has a large trade with American business men resi-
dent in Cuba.
   One of the curiosities among Havana bars is Dono-
van's, back of the Telégrafo Hotel. Donovan was
proprietor of a bar in Newark, New Jersey, when
prohibition came. Most of the other saloonkeepers
in Newark swore a little, then philosophically either
closed their places, turned bootlegger, or sold soft-
drinks.
   Not so Donovan. That Irishman had been too
long in the saloon business to quit it then. So he
packed up his entire bar—chairs, tables, hanging sign,
mirrors and bar itself—and moved it down to Ha-
vana. Newark people entering the place rub their
eyes and feel transported backward ten years.
   I f you are a winter visitor to Havana mark Janu-
ary 29 on the calendar with red ink. That day is
Donovan's birthday—and drinks are free.
   T h e Plaza Bar, in the Plaza Hotel, is a much-
frequented place, especially in the tourist season. It
probably does more business than any bar in Havana
except Sloppy Joe's and the Sevilla. The Inglaterra
Bar and Patio is a place for polite drinking, fre-
          WHERE EVERYONE IS DRINKING             43
quented by society after the Opera. Around the
corner from the Inglaterra is the Café Sazerac,
owned by Constantino and Pete Economides, and
famed because Constantino, when he was chief bar-
man of a place on Forty-second Street near Times
Square, was known for his interpretation of the
Ramos gin fizz. Theatrical men visiting Havana
often make the Sazerac a stopping place. The
Economides brothers talk English, Spanish, French,
Italian and Yiddish, but they are originally Greek.
    Sloppy Joe's place does the largest tourist busi-
ness and during the season is filled from noon until
after midnight. It never closes. It was originally a
corner bodega, with sawdust on the floor and boxes
for the customers to sit on, and the only help was
the proprietor, Joe, and his brothers, Raymond and
Valentine. The place owes its amazing vogue partly
to luck and partly to Joe's ability in pushing that
luck when it came, and mostly to its name.
   The lucky part came when the Havana city gov-
ernment some years ago appointed a "sanitary com-
mission" to inquire into the cleanliness of the
bodegas. The less said about the actual workings
of this commission the better. But it happened that
" P o p " Roberds, proprietor of the Havana Evening
News, and Joe were having a little squabble about
this time over a matter of advertising. " P o p "
44 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
thought Joe should advertise with him, and Joe
thought differently about it. "Pop," being an old-
style newspaper man, very properly thought him-
self affronted, and forthwith wrote an editorial in
which he suggested to the Sanitary Commission that
they might with profit extend their investigations to
include "a place on Zuletta Street which should be
called 'Sloppy' Joe's." The name caught on almost
at once, and Joe, although privately peeved at "Pop,"
realized that he had a good thing. H e enlarged his
place, and at a moment when drinks in Havana were
costing seventy-five cents apiece (it was just after the
Volstead Act became operative in the United States),
suddenly cut the price in half. The resultant busi-
ness forced him to enlarge his place again. "Sloppy
Joe's" became a byword and Joe used the slogan on
his saloon sign and in his advertising. Distinguished
writers from New York and further afield wrote
about the place and money came in so fast that Joe
again enlarged. H e now employs eleven bartenders.
H e advertises in The Evening News and "Pop"
Roberds is a regular client. The place is big, noisy,
has an almost exclusively tourist trade, and is fre-
quented for refreshments after the theater. It has
little really Cuban about it and might before the war
have been on Third Avenue, New York.
          WHERE    EVERYONE      IS   DRINKING   45
   It's never mañana when it comes to drinking in
Havana. Y o u need never put off until tomorrow the
drinks that should cool you today. Sugar, seegars
and señoritas form the background, and rum, so to
speak, the foreground. I f they had lived in Havana
the Governor of North Carolina might never have
spoken to the Governor of South Carolina at all.
   So many more or less excellent life-saving stations
exist in Havana that practically every reader of this
book will know of at least one we haven't mentioned.
Some will wonder why we do not rhapsodize over the
Ambos Mundos pilsener; others will insist that the
comfortable bar of the Almendares Hotel supplies
the coldest and tastiest martinis; others will wish to
visit Pat Cody at Jigg's Uptown Bar; still others
will urge the merits of sundry drinks and sun-dried
bartenders at the big bodegas neighboring Central
Plaza. T o these I say I'm sorry; I would like to
make this stroll around the camel's milk dispensaries
really complete, but there are other things to H a -
vana besides booze. In fact, liquor in Havana is
nothing more than accessory before, during and after
the fact. It easily and gently lubricates one's path
through the fascinating labyrinth of Cuba's pleas-
ures. In the course of this book we shall, like every
visitor, return—now and again—for another drink.
46 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
Night, for example, is a very thirsty period, and re-
quires a special knowledge of certain places where
the lights flare brightest. W e shall—never fear—
visit these places. But just at the moment there is
something nearly as important as drinking to be done.
   I refer to the matter of food.
                  CHAPTER IV
                BUT ONE MUST EAT
                          I
EATING in Havana, except for the Casino, the
Restaurant Paris and one or two other restaurants,
and certain of the clubs, is a matter of hotels.
   The hotels may be classified as either American or
Spanish. Most of the American hotels have French
chefs; some of them are very good and some aston-
ishingly bad. Likewise for the Spanish—or Cuban if
you like—hotels. A few of these are superlative in
cooking, cleanliness and service. A majority are in-
different, and a few do not bear investigation. The
case, in short, of any large city.
   There are two hotels of the quality known abroad
as de luxe—the Sevilla-Biltmore, which offers you
a menu like that of the Biltmore, New York; and
the Almendares, built by that great Cuban family
the Mendozas, a large hotel with perfect appoint-
ments, managed by Alfred Gamard, and presenting a
cuisine of high standard. The Sevilla is in Havana
itself; the Almendares is about five miles from the
                         47
48 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
heart of Havana toward the Casino, with its own
Country Club and golf links. A distinguished
hostelry for those who like quiet combined with
quality.
   The Sevilla has two restaurants and a charming
patio for tea-or-cocktail and dancing. The luncheon
restaurant is downstairs, adjoining the lobby, and is
seldom used at night when the kitchens and staff
are moved up on the roof. An exceptional view of
Havana can be obtained from this roof and nightly
it is a scene of gaiety, with dressing-for-dinner a
requisite. The waiters and chefs come from other
Biltmore hotels and collaborate in the special style
of food and service which has come to be associated
with the name of Bowman. The wines and liqueurs
are chosen by John McEntee Bowman himself on his
annual visits to Europe. Privately I think this lov-
ing selection of his Havana liquids must be Jack
Bowman's principal recreation in life. Certainly he
qualifies as a connoisseur. An orchestra directed by
a gentleman with a passion for cock-fighting, Mr.
Victor Rodriguez, supplies dance music during din-
ner and supper, and I know of few things more ex-
hilarating than a waltz with a sweet young thing over
the floor of polished tiles, with all Havana winking
at you from the windows. The Sevilla Roof is never
noisy, but then, thank God, neither is it ever sedate.
                BUT ONE MUST EAT                 49
It is a very human restaurant where the world meets
his wife and chucks her under the chin.
   The Almendares Restaurant is very smart, very
chic, and on its frequent gala nights it can be very
Cuban and very gay. The Almandares teas, in the
beautiful patio, are high-lights socially on Saturday
and Sunday afternoons. The flower of Cuban beauty
is there, and the flower of Cuban beauty is a beguil-
ing blossom.
   Slim young señoritas, whose fathers are literally
"sugar daddies," are very alluring in their Paris
frocks. They walk as they dance, with instinctive
grace. One longs to be presented to them so that one
may float, like these Cuban dandies, into the dreamy
heaven of a Cuban danzón.
   But one generally has to be content with watching
them, for these gazelle-like young creatures are
chaperoned with an adequacy unknown in Paris or
New York. You don't just walk up and ask a Cuban
girl to dance, even if you have been introduced. You
ask her mother, or her aunt, or her elder sister, or
whoever happens to be guarding her fragile and
precious personality. Only if you are undoubtedly
eligible will you be permitted to more than pass the
time of day with her—in the hearing of her elders.
   These Almendares and Country Club dances are
too tantalizing for me. The flappers are there—but
50 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
they won't flap for you. They are shy, adorable—
and unreachable. Their incomparably wistful eyes
hint at Olympian heights of romance, but you'll
never climb those heights. The promise of liquid
brown eyes will not be confirmed by ruby, rosebud
lips.
   I know a man who came to Cuba for a fortnight's
stay and went to one of those Almendares teas and
saw a girl and fell in love with her at sight and raved
about her for days. H e was an absolute nuisance
around the hotel; the only subject he knew was this
adorable creature and the only thing he lived for
was to meet her. His fortnight came and went and
he still hung around, using every guile and subter-
fuge known to the lovesick swain since l'amour was
invented. Two months afterward he was still there,
and as far away from making the young lady's
acquaintance as he had been at the beginning. H e
spoke rashly of bearding President Machado in his
palace and asking him for an introduction. Finally,
by extraordinary exertion and questionable means he
got himself invited to her house. Her mother, fat,
formidable and forty, received him. During a ter-
rible twenty minutes the miserable man sat in that
splendid Cuban home, sipping tea and talking to
Mother. H e never saw the girl and never was in-
                BUT ONE MUST EAT                    51
vited again. It seems he blurted out in his nervous-
ness that his wife lived in New York.
   But even to an unwed and entirely eligible young
man a Cuban beauty is nearly as inaccessible as the
stars. H e could be invited to sing Sweet Adeline
with President Coolidge easier than he could get in
her home.
   So be warned. Look your fill, drink in this ad-
mirable panorama of dark, seductive beauty until
your pulses leap, but don't be foolish. Don't fall
in love. You'll only have to fall out again and it
may hurt.
   If you are very susceptible it may be wise for you
not to come to Havana at all, for at least two out
of every three girls on the street there are pretty, and
half of them, if you like the lissome, languorous,
warm-eyed, dark-skinned, vividly-colored type, are
beautiful. And even this percentage is beaten by
Santiago and Cardenas, not to mention Matanzas and
Trinidad. There are positively more beautiful girls
in Santiago—well, the wife, who is brunette herself,
said she would never let me go there alone. Don't
however, ask me what these beautiful girls look like
when they are ten years older. I did not stay long
enough to find out. God, when he made the world,
should have provided that death should coincide with
52 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
the failing of beauty—for what else has a woman
to live for?
                          II
   W e have listed the two de luxe hotels, which
 means that they have French menus, bathrooms with
every bed, and superior employees. It may be that
the new Spanish-style hotel being built by the Bow-
man interests at Jaimanitas is completed when you
come to Cuba; if so, count three to the list. There is
a great need in Havana for more de luxe hotels and
only the shortness of the season prevents these being
built. But there are several very fine hotels which
are first-class and only fall short of the de luxe
requirements by a narrow margin.
   Among these are the Plaza., first of the "Ameri-
can" hotels; the Inglaterra, leader among the Span-
ish houses; the Telégrafo, like the Inglaterra sit-
uated on the Central Plaza at the top of the Prado;
the Florida, a favorite among the old-timers; the
Lafayette, with an exceptional reputation and a
Mexican restaurant—I heard of this hotel in Paris;
the Royal Palm, a first-class American hotel; the
Pasaje, one of the oldest and best of the Spanish
hotels; the Regina, on Industria Street, with six de
luxe suites and a Spanish Tavern in the basement; the
Bristol, a central hotel with a good roof-garden, at-
                BUT ONE MUST EAT                    53
tractive entertainment and American cooking; the
Ritz, favorite among wealthy Cubans; the Astor, a
small but good house; the Perla de Cuba, much
favored by the Cuban and Spanish visitors; the L a
Union, with 200 rooms modernly equipped; the
Cecil, out in the residential section and quiet; the
Presidente, which opens for the first time during the
1928-29 season, and of which William Davis is man-
ager; and the Maison Royale, the only French hotel
in Havana.
   The Plaza Hotel is the home of the Rotary Club,
of sundry other clubs needing a weekly luncheon-
place, and is usually selected by Americans on con-
ducted tours. It is a first-class hotel with a familiar
American aspect, a good bar and smoking-room, and
one of the most energetic managers I have ever
known—Fausto Simon. H e looks a little like his
first name, and he knows his business. Every year he
travels through the United States spreading pub-
licity for Cuba on fertile ground. When you dine
on the wonderful Plaza roof-garden, with the music
of the band in Central Plaza coming faintly to your
ears and the balmy breeze of the Caribbean cooling
you after your dances, take note of the lovely
Ophelia, the Plaza's star dancer, a Mexican whose
mother was eaten by a shark. Señor Simon has
wisely made his program on the roof as Cuban as
54 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
possible. Here you may see the Cuban danzón
danced as it should be danced, and even a wee sug-
gestion of the forbidden rumba, that most suggestive
of dances, reminiscent of the jungle, when instead
of the woman trying to charm the man it's the other
way about, and the man by his gestures and his grace
endeavors to seduce the woman. And if you happen
to be dining on the Plaza roof one evening when
coupe Plaza is on the menu, why, order it—if you
like crushed strawberries iced with custard and helped
out by ice-cream.
   You always see a good show on the Plaza roof
because the same company owns a theater nearby.
   The Inglaterra is a house where tradition is built
of reputation, or vice-versa. It was for years the
only good hotel in Cuba and today is in advance of
any hotel I know in Madrid. T h e rooms each have
private baths and telephones and are decorated in
the attractive Spanish style. T h e restaurant is ex-
cellent.
   The Telégrafo forms another angle of the Cen-
tral Plaza and has a famous restaurant with a special
menu naming 100 kinds of ice-cream—mostly of the
sherbet variety. Some people—among them Samuel
G. Blythe and Horatio S. Rubens—consider the
Telégrafo the best restaurant in Havana and cer-
tainly if you eat there you will not be disappointed.
                    BUT ONE MUST EAT                          55
Their crabs—cangrejos—are famous and so, around
Christmas, is their roast suckling pig.
   Between the Telegrafo and the Inglaterra is a
long narrow restaurant celebrated for its sea-food.
You have to come to Havana to realize how profuse
the sea really is of edible varieties. More than six
hundred different fish found in Cuban waters can be
eaten—not all at the same season. A fisherman in
Cuba needs expert knowledge. With some varieties
a male can be eaten at certain seasons and a female
during other months. O f the dozens of different
crabs found on the coral reefs only four are worth
eating. Sea-urchins and langouste abound. The red
snapper is the most popular Cuban fish, with the
pargo a close second. The pargo is a versatile fish;
on some menus it figures under five or six different
names, and in certain restaurants even masquerades
as sole. Shark,* if boiled with plenty of salt, makes
excellent eating, and so do the eggs of jellyfish, re-
markable for the delicate tracery on their white
shells. Turtle are found everywhere along the coast
of Cuba and a tender turtle steak at the Telégrafo
or the Pasaje is worth traveling miles to eat.

   * Man-eating sharks are almost unknown off the coast of Cuba,
although a smaller species—called by fishermen "gull sharks"—
abound. Cases of these attacking human beings have been known,
but are rare. The shark is a deep-water fish and seldom approaches
the shore.
56 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
   Cubans usually cook their fish with a sauce made
of green and red peppers, onions, peas and other
vegetables. Guaguanchos (smelts) are served in
fritters. Fish fried until it is nearly dry and served
with hot rice is a favorite. Some restaurants feature
fish baked in paper-bags.
   Aristocrat of Cuban restaurants is the Restaurant
Paris, owned and managed by a famous Creole cook,
Alfred Petit. Several fair Italian eating-places exist.

                          III
   The Cuban menu suits some palates but most
Americans prefer it only as a change. Generally
speaking the cooking is too dry; the use of onions
in everything, monotonous. The national dish is
called ajiaco criollo, and is a sort of fried stew
made of jerked beef, pork, corn, peppers, and every
sort of vegetable. Sometimes fish is added also.
The commonest dish throughout Cuba is the Basque
specialty "arroz con polio." Thick sofas, or soups,
with several kinds of meat and vegetables in them,
figure on most Cuban home menus. Lechoncito
asado, roast suckling pig, is the Cuban's Christmas
turkey, and is perhaps the most delicious dish to be
found in Cuba. Aristocrat of the vegetable list is the
aguacate, or alligator pear, which is nothing more
formidable than the vegetable marrow to be found
               BUT ONE MUST EAT                  57
on every English dinner-table. There are a number
of native vegetables, some of which are tasty, and a
long list of fruits, few of which figure on the average
restaurant menu because, as they grow wild, nobody
thinks it worth while to pick them, and most of
which are too sweet for the average taste. In the
summer the Cuban mango is worth sampling, and the
Cuban bananas, cocoanuts, caimitos and grape-fruit
are the finest to be found in the West Indies.
   Cocoanuts, mangos, bananas and mameys (a sort
of tough-skinned apricot) grow wild, in such pro-
fusion that they are more a nuisance than a blessing.
Another wild fruit is the guava, called guayaba in
Cuba, which like the mango has a very distinctive
taste of its own—a taste nearly baffling definition,
resembling as it does, when cooked, the peach, straw-
berry, raspberry and apple! Guava is put up in two
forms—guava jelly and casco de guayaba, a sort of
marmalade. As a jam it probably has the most un-
usual flavor in the world; once eaten this flavor is
never forgotten and there have been instances of
people crossing the ocean merely for another taste
of it.
   The Cuban menu is made of all these things, and
 usually Spanish wine is drunk as a complement; it
 seems to fit in better than the suaver French wine.
 There are a great many fraudulent Spanish wines in
58 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
Havana and the visitor should be careful of his choice
and where he orders it. The Inglaterra has one of
the finest cellars in Havana. For ordinary purposes
the traveler will not go wrong if he orders a Rioja
wine—red (tinto) or white (bianco)—which is a
fair substitute for the light dry Bordeaux wines.
Cubans consider Marques de Riscal finest of Spanish
wines. One glass of tawny Amontillado sherry is a
marvellous aperitif, but here again ordering must
be subordinate to knowledge and taste. There are
few things more awful in life than a bad sherry.
   Wine is made by descendants of French emigrants
in a section of Oriente province but is not exported
and cannot be found in Havana. The miraculous
malvoisie wine of the Canaries should be treated, if
you are lucky enough to find it—not much is made
each year and very little of that is sold except to
private owners—like the liquid gold it is.
   Sometimes on a Cuban menu you may be puzzled
by the appearance of dishes whose names have ap-
parently no derivation in either English or Spanish.
   Under the head of soups you may, for instance,
read "aristu." This, if you take a chance on order-
ing it, you will discover to be Irish Stew. A beef-
steak is "biste" and fresh green string beans are
"aricober"—viz., haricots verts. Cuban cooks are
nothing if not literal.
                   CHAPTER V
            AND NOW FOR THE RACES
                          I
AFTER lunch one goes to the races. One can go by
tramway, motor-bus or taxi, but generally one hires
a big car from the Sevilla door-keeper and is driven
out in style.
   The race-track is about twenty minutes from the
heart of Havana in the suburb of Marianao. Its offi-
cial name is Oriental Park, though the only Orientals
about the place are the Chinese laundrymen and
vegetable-growers who flood the cheap enclosure
every Sunday, three or four of them going shares on
a two-dollar ticket.
   Oriental Park was founded in 1915 by H . T .
("Curly") Brown, owner now of Arlington Park,
Chicago. The present vice-president and general
manager, Charles F . Flynn, was manager of the
track under Brown. About eight or nine years ago
Brown sold the track to Charles Stoneham. Havana,
however, had not yet got into its stride as a tourist
resort. The track made money, but not much money.
It needed improvements which Stoneham did not
think justified.
                         59
60 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
   Meanwhile Charles Flynn, when he left Oriental
Park on Brown's selling the place to Stoneham, had
become identified with the Bowman interests and had
persuaded John McEntee Bowman to buy a build-
ing in the heart of Havana which had been a hotel
but which was then known as the Sevilla office-build-
ing. This building Flynn had transformed, under
circumstances which may be related later, into a
modern hotel—the Sevilla-Biltmore.
   In 1925 Flynn broached an ambitious program to
Bowman, who was steadily becoming more enthusi-
astic on the subject of Havana. H e suggested that
the Biltmore group form a separate company and
acquire the race-track and the National Casino from
the concessionaires, these things being really only a
preliminary in Flynn's mind to the real scheme he
and Bowman had discussed years before—the crea-
tion near Havana of an American Monte Carlo.
   The new syndicate was formed and the gambling
concession, together with leases on the race-track and
Casino, was purchased by a Bowman group known as
the "Cuban National Syndicate" from Carlos M .
de Céspedes and Senator Cortina, to whom the con-
cession had passed from Stoneham. Bowman be-
came president of both enterprises, and Flynn vice-
president and general manager.
   The 1925-26 season saw the new owners in the
             AND     NOW     FOR    THE    RACES    61
 saddle, and almost at once extensive improvements,
 begun by Stoneham, were completed and others
 planned. Backed by the foresight and imagination
 and money of John M c E . Bowman and the amazing
 vision and energy of Charles F . Flynn, the race-
 track has become a great money-maker. The daily
average turnover of the mutuels alone for the season
of 1927-28 was $40,234, or an increase of nearly ten
percent over the preceding season. The mutuels
 handled, in fact, no less a sum than $3,822,276.
And as the profits of the track include the book-
makers' percentages and the rake-off from the
gambling-rooms it will be seen that Messrs. Bowman
and Flynn have a tidy little affair.
    The opening in December, 1928, will see exten-
sive improvements, the Jockey Club building being
extended 100 feet toward the paddock. The res-
taurant now seats 400 persons for lunch without
crowding and the capacity of the terrace and
gambling-rooms has been increased threefold.
    When you go to Oriental Park you will of course
become a member of the Jockey Club, which makes
the track the most exquisite little racing-plant in the
world. Y o u will therefore hunt up James F.
Milton, the famous Maryland starter, who is assist-
ant manager, and start in motion the process by
which membership in the club is achieved. Member-
62 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
ship for the season costs $100, but it is possible to
visit the club by paying a daily admission fee.
   As you enter the clubhouse you traverse a short
lobby and then find yourself in the main dining-
room, where the cream of visiting and local society
lunches on Saturdays and Sundays and dines and
dances on Tuesday nights. An orchestra plays dur-
ing lunch and at tea-time; between races, you may
dance.
   On the other side of the dining-room is the
famous terrace, from which members view the races.
This terrace is like no other race-track grandstand in
the world. On it you sit with your party at little
tables, a waiter hovering nearby to catch your order
and a pari-mutuel or bookmakers' agent passing to
take your wager. From your table you have a full
and complete view of the entire track. It is actually
possible, in such splendid fashion has this track been
constructed, to see your horse's hoofs, and certainly
read his jockey's colors, throughout the race. I know
of no other track in the world where this is pos-
sible—where you can lunch, dine, and bet from your
table with an unobstructed view of the course, and
between races dance or gamble.
   Beneath the main dining-room and terrace is a
grill-room and bar and several pari-mutuel machines
for those who like to do their betting themselves.
            AND NOW FOR THE RACES                 63
   Here, at the bar, you will find Jake Mueller, who
has been a race-track bartender since he was in short
breeches, and his assistant Dave Jordan. What these
two boys don't know about racing isn't worth
knowing, and naturally neither is a millionaire—yet.
Jake and Dave can call the names and drinks of
nearly every famous racing personality in the United
States.
   Some pretty big men may be seen following their
fancy out at Oriental Park. You'll see Chicago
O'Brien very busy totting up sums of five and six
figures, and A l Johnson and Harry Frazee know a
good thing when they see it. There are plenty of
daring sportsmen in Cuba, too, as they have learned
in Deauville and Monte Carlo. Milton Hershey
and Frank Steinhart and General Bétancourt, and
Lorenzo Quesada are generally to be found watch-
ing the prices, and John J. McGraw never misses a
day at the track. An important man is Johnny
Walters, the betting commissioner and the man who
makes the prices for the books; and Skeets Garner,
once a very well-known j ockey indeed, will be found
scurrying between the paddock and the ring.
   Garner was head jockey for John W . Gates. H e
comes of a famous racing family and his brother
Guy is a rider and trainer in France. I asked Skeets
who was the biggest racing man he'd ever known.
64 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
   "Johnnie Gates," he said, unhesitatingly, "the
whitest, squarest sportsman the world ever knew."
   " H e was called 'Bet-a-Million Gates,' wasn't he?"
I asked. "Did he ever bet it?"
   "Not that I know of. H e never found anyone
who would take him up. But he would accept any
part of the million and once a horse I rode for him
carried $600,000 of his money."
   "Kind of nervous riding, wasn't it, Skeets?"
   " Y e s , sir! It ain't no cinch riding a horse as
heavily backed as Gates would back his. There
were—plenty of propositions. There were even one
or two—accidents. But you know why I loved
Gates? It was because of his confidence in me. H e
trusted me to bring his horses home. H e used to
call me his 'best horse.' Yes, sir—a square guy and
a great gentleman. I sure loved that man."

                         II
   Rum, roulette and racing form a fascinating com-
bination. Y o u might think it the most dangerous
combination in the world, and Havana, which
stretches "personal liberty" to the point of permit-
ting all three to operate in one and the same spot,
a "wild town."
   But as a matter of fact Havana is not a "wild
town." You do not hear guns popping in the streets
                       AND NOW FOR THE RACES 65
nor see hilarious gentlemen "shooting up" barrooms.
That phase of Havana's history belongs to the past.
Today even the police are polite.
   And the Havana-American Jockey Club is sedate,
smart and select, not wild, woolly and whoopin'.
Prettily dressed children play in a part of the
grounds reserved for them—Havana's is the only
race-track catering to infants—beautiful ladies in
summery creations from Paris sip cool drinks on the
terrace or saunter on the lawns—there to be trapped
by the society photographer—and quietly dressed
gentlemen with thick pocketbooks and international
reputations walk hither and thither, not raising their
voices to bet.
   Between races they throng the roulette rooms, and
here again is quiet and order. Nobody is loud. The
croupiers, unlike their Monte Carlo confrères, do not
go through the picturesque but useless jargon of the
game: faites vos jeux, messieurs . . . vos jeux sont
fais? rien ne va plus . . . l e sept, noir et impair.
N o ; the Havana croupier spins the ball in bored
fashion, allows you to bet until the ball has actually
fallen into a socket, and then, instead of giving
tongue, points gently to the number on the board
that has won, and in another gesture pays the winners
and scoops in the losing chips. You are supposed to
know that seven is black, odd, in the first dozen and
66 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
 in the first column. The result is that where the
 Monte Carlo croupier does one spin to the two
 minutes the Havana croupier spins the ball every
 twenty or thirty seconds.
    The strained, unhappy looks of the players, the
 fevered atmosphere, are absent at the Jockey Club
 tables. One has clearly the impression that here
are a company of generous gentlemen and ladies
who, having won on the racing, have taken pity on
the syndicate and are here handing back their win-
nings in a quiet, refined way. Doubtless if they
went to Mr. Flynn and said: "Dear Mr. Flynn, I'm
so sorry, but I actually won on that third race—quite
a disgusting amount of money. Here, take it, won't
you—with my apologies?" M r . Flynn would feel
insulted and refuse to accept charity. So these kind-
hearted people, not wishing to hurt his feelings, go
into the gambling-rooms and quietly leave the money
on the roulette table.
   Which reminds me of an incident at the Casino
last year, with George Olsen, the "jazz king," as
hero. George had a bad evening. H e played craps,
and sevens were frequent between points. H e in-
dulged in a little poker, and couldn't make a pair.
He doubled up on the birdcage, and two of the other
five numbers came up. H e sat down at baccarat,
and not an eight or a nine came his way in an hour.
He guessed high at hazard, and there was a run at
             AND NOW FOR THE RACES                 67
low. So George repaired to a roulette wheel, where
I found him ten minutes afterward. George's ex-
pression was sad.
    "How's luck?" I asked.
    "Luck?" repeated M r . Olsen, as though puzzled.
"Luck? What's that?"
    H e explained that during ten minutes no red num-
ber had once come up. H e had been betting on red.
    "It stands to reason, don't it," said George, "that
red's got to come up some time." He placed a pile
of chips on red.
    "Roulette never stands to reason," I told him.
"And there's black—again."
    " A w , " said George, despondently, "I guess I'm
hoodooed all right tonight. If I stay at this table
red never will come up. Unless, of course, I switch
my bets to black."
    H e placed his last pile on red and turned away.
" I won't watch," he said. "I'll go over here and talk
to Perry. I know black's gonna win again, and it'll
break my heart."
    Five minutes later I found Olsen after a hunt
through the rooms. He was having a beer in a cor-
ner, unutterable melancholy clouding his usually
happy face.
    "George," I said, "you were wrong. Red came
up."
    Mr. Olsen did not seem particularly interested.
68 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
    "It did, did it?" he said. " W e l l , where's the
 dough?"
    "Where's what dough?" I asked. " Y o u didn't
 tell me to do anything with that bet. It was your
 money, not mine."
    "D'you mean to tell me," howled Olsen, "that
 you left that dough lying on red? W h y , you—"
    Just then an employee of the rooms came up.
    " M r . Olsen, Sir," he said, respectfully, "the
croupier wants to know whether you still want maxi-
mums on red. It came black last time."
    Olsen went to the table in a daze. The croupier
greeted him with a smile.
    "Still want to bet the limit?" he asked.
    "If black came up I got no more dough," said
Olsen.
   "What about this two grand?" asked the croupier.
   The maximum at roulette is $1,000 on the colors.
Red coming in sequence had piled George's chips
from the original $125 bet to the maximum in three
spins. Three times red had won for him with $ 1,000
at stake, and once lost. So he had won nearly two
thousand dollars by going away into a corner and
drinking a glass of beer.
   But I don't recommend the system as infallible.
George never tried it again.
   The Jockey Club runs mostly to roulette and
THE   HAVANA AMERICAN JOCKEY CLUB
            AND NOW FOR THE RACES               69
hazard, which with baccarat, chemin-de-fer and
trente-et-quarante are the aristocrats of games of
chance. Such low games as craps, in the quiet pre-
cincts of this temple, are not encouraged.
   But the Jockey Club sees some very heavy play,
occasionally. Frank Steinhart, whose amazing story
is told hereafter, and Hershey, the philanthropic
chocolate king, amuse themselves and a gallery now
and again with maximums. Last season a Chicago
broker, famed for his plunges in the grain pits, won
$60,000 in one afternoon, most of it at hazard. A
real-estate man from New York took $25,000 away
from the roulette game. A wealthy Cuban plunger,
halving the zeros with the maximum, saw the blank
arrive four times in succession. The biggest win-
nings are "luck" plays. There is not much system-
playing at Havana, chiefly because most systems re-
quire that a table should be in operation continuously
over a stated number of hours for an average of
plays to be struck. In Havana tables only operate
as long as there are players; although one player, if
he wishes, can sometimes have a table to himself.
   The players in the Jockey Club appear to me to
be substantial men of the business type, not the gam-
bling kind at all. What they win doesn't make them
reckless, and what they lose won't hurt them. They
are down on vacation and "a little fling now and then
70 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
won't do any harm." Their wives are getting a thrill
at the "ladies only" table.
   Gambling vultures of the predatory sort are not
seen in Havana as in the casinos of Europe. No
painted lady will lean over your chair and murmur:
"Mettez cinquante louis four moi dans votre banque,
Monsieur?" Ladies of loose morals may be about,
but at least they are circumspect.
   O f course, once in a while a gentleman who has
"parked the wife" in Palm Beach or Miami arrives,
a bundle of lace and ribbons on either arm. They
are hilarious for an afternoon or so, while the "sugar
daddy" gives his friends a few thousands to bet with,
and they put two-thirds away in a safe place and bet
the remainder—always, of course, losing. Then
they disappear and managers, bartenders and crou-
piers breathe easier. But these amateur joymakers
on a winter spree mean and do no harm.
   In general, the atmosphere of the Jockey Club is
one of casual elegance and is clean of the crooked-
ness, tragedy and unwholesomeness that characterize
the principal casinos of the old world.

                         III
   This result has not been achieved without con-
siderable hard work and forethought on the part of
the promoters.
   The racing itself is "on the level." The orders
             AND NOW FOR THE RACES                  71
of Jack Bowman, himself a horseman and a horse-
lover since his earliest days, were categoric on that
point. "The first man found crooked gets a ticket
to the States." That goes for jockey, trainer, owner
or employee. The result is that the Havana race-
track is a clean plant where every horse has a chance.
   That Mr. Bowman's orders are obeyed is ensured
by a qualified and adequate staff, all the way from
Charley Flynn himself down to the smallest official.
The mutuels, for instance, are managed by Milton
Meffert, a man whose record places his name above
suspicion. M r . Meffert, whose title at the track is
that of Auditor, manages six meetings a year in
Canada, including Duffrein Park and Long Branch
at Toronto, and the famous Kenilworth track at
Windsor.
   The presiding steward is M . Nathanson, the asso-
ciate steward and racing secretary is W . H . Shelley.
Dr. F. W . Ashe is associate steward and L . Dean is
starter. The clerk of scales is S. S. Bender, the timer
A. C. Niehaus, and the four judges are C. Cornehl-
sen, R. S. Shelley, C. F. Henry and W . W . Lyles.
The handicappers are M . Nathanson, W . H . Shelley
and C. Cornehlsen. T o racing men these names
alone are a guaranty of a square deal.
  There are usually one hundred or so strings of
horses at the track, there being 1,100 stalls in the
72 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
 stables built to accommodate them. Twenty-five or
 thirty of the owners are Cuban. President Machado
 himself has the largest individual string, with the
 famous ex-jockey Winnie O'Connor as trainer.
    Among the American owners is Tom Cheek, who
 in 1928 was one hundred and three years old.
 H e usually gets a vociferous "hand" when he wins
a race. Other old-timers include Barney Scalm and
 Clarence Farrell, sheet writers; Harry Dore, "Chi-
cago" O'Brien's clocker; Frank Bacciocco, formerly
commissioner for Julius Fleischmann; Mark Elias,
one of Bat Masterson's close friends; Herman
Radtke, once one of America's greatest jockeys and
now a sheet-writer; T . K. Lynch, Billy Myron, Billy
Duane, Bert Johnson, Harry Hentricks, Eddie
Waugh, Billy Davis, E d Colell, Peter Doll, who at-
tended Abraham Lincoln's funeral; Joe Lefkowitz,
Joe Healey, Oscar Weikert, a "native son"; Markie
Stearn, Ike DeWilde, Frank Koergh, Benny Levy,
Pete Blong, Wash Wilcox and Shaum Gilmartin.
    Some great boys are riding at Havana now. Two
of them particularly will be heard from in no uncer-
tain fashion in the future—C. Meyer and T . Root.
Others wearing the silks are R. Mozer, J. Gwynne,
H . Thomas, J. Frederick, Shropshire, K. Gleed,
Cheatham, J. Guerra, O. Pernia, J. O'Malley, F.
Moon, P. Cogan, S. Palumbo and J. Ford.
                            AND NOW FOR THE RACES                                 73
          Trainers include C. Ferraro, F. Walker, G. Alex-
        andra, Jr., A. Miller, G. M . Ridge, W . H . Schwartz,
        E. B . Ogden, J. F . Patterson, J. Driscoll, W . E.
        Fairman, J. Switcher, M . E . Thompson, J. Y . Christ-
        mas, A. Smitha, W . Cedar, A. S. Eastman, H . T .
        Palmer, R. Robertson, G. K. Allen, W . Martin, S.
        McNeill, M . Katz, F . A. Hyde, J. Conway, J.
        Corujo, R. Guciardo, L . Clous, H . Torriente, J. F .
        Hynes, J. A. Grey, H . Herdel, J. Reed, L . E. Fine
        and H . A. Magee.
           Some remarkable times have been made on this
        track, which is oval with two bad curves. Among
        the track records are the following:

          DIST.               HORSE           AGE WT.          DATE           TIME
                       Dr. Hall                 2    115    Jan. 24, 1919       .22
        2 fur.         Azurita                  2    111    Jan. 29, 1919       :22
                       Mordine                  2    118    Jan. 21, 1927       :22
                       Helmet's Daughter . . 2       113    Jan. 21, 1916       .34 3-5
       3       fur.    Princesita               2    115    Feb. 4, 1927        .34 3-5
       31/2fur.        True Flier               2    115    Feb. 11, 1922    :41 1-5
       1/2 mile         Princesita               2    116    Feb. 18, 1927       .47 3-5
       5 fur.          Fort Churchill           3    100    Jan. 10, 1920       .59
       51/2fur.        Extreme                  5    126    Feb. 13, 1927      1:05
                High Gear 6 102 Jan. 8, 1920 1:11
                Money 6 104 Jan. 11, 1920 1 :11
                6 fur .Right Angle              5    116    Jan. 25, 1920     1:11
                       Zuker                    5    116    Jan. 11, 1927     1:11
                       Bucky Harris             5    109    Feb. 9, 1928      1:11
  7         fur        Wenonah                  4    106    Jan. 16, 1917      1:27
                       Pierrot                  5    106    Jan. 13, 1917     1:27
       1 mile          Chief Sponsor            4    101    Dec. 6, 1920       1:38
       1 m. 20 yds. Senator James               8    103    Feb. 15, 1918     1.39
       1 m. 50 yds. King David                  4     96    Jan. 28, 1928     1:40
       1 m. 70 yds. George Kuffan               5    104    Mar. 1, 1924      1:43 4-5
       11/16miles      Zululand                  3    92     Feb. 3, 1918     1:44 1-5
1   1/16      miles    Boom                     4    102    Jan. 21, 1928     1:44 1-5
1   1/8      miles     Buford                   6    105    Jan. 18. 1920     1:50 4-5
1 3/16        miles    Walnut Hall              6    105    Jan. 1, 1920      1:57 4-5
1   1/4     miles     Herron                    4    118    Jan. 30, 1921     2:03 3-5
       11/2miles       Caribe                   5    105    Feb. 13, 1927     2:342-5
       21/16miles     J. Alfred Clark           6    107    Mar. 25, 1923     3:292-5
74 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
   One of the interesting men about the track is
Charles C. Cook, whose business card proclaims that
he is "Photographer Extraordinaire to His Majesty
King Horse," and who has been a race-track photog-
rapher for thirty years. H e is known as being per-
haps the best "finish" track photographer in the
world, but his principal claim to fame to me would
seem to be the fact that, although he has scarcely
missed a day's racing in thirty years, and knows more
about the game than almost anyone else in it, he
has yet to place his first bet.
   The photographer the society folk must pretend
to dodge is Steiglitz, who has an eye for the photo-
graphic possibilities of a pretty woman rivaling that
of Georgie White or Samuel Goldwyn.
                  CHAPTER VI
      WHEN TWO IRISHMEN GET TOGETHER

                          I
MORE than thirty and less than forty years ago a
group of lumbermen sat outside the trading post of
a log settlement in the far north forests of Ontario,
wondering when and whether the mail would get
through.
    For two weeks it had been blowing a blizzard.
Word had come through that the trail south was
impossible for anyone unless traveling on skiis. T h e
mail was carried in fast sleds driven by horses in
summer and dogs in winter. From Toronto north
it went a short distance by train, then a longer dis-
tance by road, then many hundred miles across un-
bridged rivers, unmapped lakes and virgin forests
to the outlying settlements. Getting the mails
through was distinctly a man's job. On this occasion
it looked like a superman's job, and fifty to one odds
were offered that the mail would not arrive.
    A bearded, red-shirted woodsman came toward the
group on skiis, shouting and waving his hands.
                         75
76 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
   "The mail's comin', the mail's comin'!" he cried,
"an' it's driven by a kid!"
   Astounded, the loggers watched the sled draw up
and swing to a sweating, snarling halt. The dogs
were dead-beat, red-fanged, their feet caked with
ice. On the sled was the mail sack and sundry pack-
ages, and a sinister bundle covered with blankets—
the mail driver.
   A diminutive figure detached itself from where
it had been loosening the traces on the off-side. It
wore snow-shoes and carried a rawhide thong. As
the figure divested itself of the cumbersome parka
the assembled men first stared, dumbfounded, then
swore.
   The "man" who had brought the mail through
with the real driver badly injured was a boy of fif-
teen!    His name was Bowman—Jack Bowman.
The mail route belonged to his father and uncle.
The driver incapacitated, it had been up to his
father's son to get the mail through.

                         II
   At approximately the same date, in the woods of
Northern New England, another boy of fifteen was
getting his first experience of the lumber business.
H e was learning to know timber, to judge the worth
of this and that monarch of the forest, to understand
       WHEN TWO IRISHMEN GET TOGETHER              77
the process by which the trees came by way of flume
and log raft from forest to mill, and from mill to
lumberyard.
   One day in Boston the boy had an interview with
his father, an Irishman in the lumber business there.
   "It amounts to this," said the father, "I'm giving
you your choice. Either you can come in the lumber
business with me or I'll put up the cash and send
you to college. You're a smart boy and quick at
figures and you ought to get on, either way. Which
is it?"
   "Father," said the boy, "let's leave college out of
it. I want to be a builder like you."
   A builder like his father. Sweet words in a par-
ent's ears!
   Young Charley Flynn got his wish. H e became a
builder.
                         III
   Now it happened that up in the North a change
was taking place in the wilderness. Railroads were
being pushed through the virgin forests, automobile
roads built where hitherto had been but trails.
   The business of the old mail carriers dwindled
correspondingly with the march of civilization.
Young Jack Bowman, at school in Toronto, saw the
fortunes of his family reach their peak and then
78 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
reverse. College for him became out of the ques-
tion; work a necessity.
   So it was that one day in the nineties a young
towheaded Canadian boy, with an Irishman's fight-
ing jaw and an Irishman's sense of humor to support
him in adversity, came to New York. In his pocket
were a few dollars and a letter of introduction given
him by a friend of the family to an executive of the
Hotel Manhattan.
   The Hotel Manhattan executive kept him waiting
much longer than any ambitious, headstrong Irish
boy would wait, and when he finally sent for him
Bowman was gone.
   Twenty-five years later he again entered the Hotel
Manhattan—as owner.

                          IV
   The intervening time saw him in many jobs. His
first was a strange one for a youth born and raised
in the wilderness. An acquaintance asked him if he
wanted a job. Bowman said that not only did he
want a job, but that he'd mighty soon have to have
a job—or starve.
   "What can you do?" asked the man.
   "Ride any horse, rope cattle, break trail, cook for
lumbermen, and so forth," replied young Bowman.
       WHEN TWO IRISHMEN GET TOGETHER                     79
   " W e l l , " said the man drily, " I ' l l give you a job,
then."
   H e made him clerk in a Yonkers haberdashery
store.
   Dispensing "Gents' Furnishings" soon palled on
the Canadian boy and he went traveling. In the
South he worked in tourist hotels, and finding the
business to his liking, adopted it, going to an Adi-
rondack hotel for a season.
   Then he heard the call of horses again and, re-
turning to New York, became an instructor at Dur-
land's Riding Academy. That went until one day
the boss tried to make him wear a uniform. Bow-
man quit on the spot. He was no man's hireling
to wear livery. A few weeks later he opened his own
riding academy, with a tiny store of hardly saved
dollars and two horses.
   Bowman is now perhaps the most prominent man
in the American horse world. H e is President of
the United Hunts Racing Association, which August
Belmont called "the cradle of racing," and during
his presidency attendance at United Hunt meets has
increased from 300 to 12,000. H e is President of
the National Horseshow Association of America; is
the American Judge at the Olympia horseshow, and
is M . F . H . at Golden's Bridge. H e founded the
Westchester Racing Association and built their beau-
80 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
 tiful track—Bowman Park. H e is known as an
"angel" of international polo matches and aided in
bringing the British-Indian four over in 1927. As
a sportsman Bowman's rise has perhaps been even
more spectacular than his skyrocketing career as a
hotel financier.
    One of Bowman's clients at Durland's was Gustav
Baumann, owner of the Holland House. Baumann
thought so much of Bowman's ability and integrity
that he persuaded him to sell the riding academy and
come in with him as an assistant. From being in
charge of wines and cigars he rose to be Baumann's
secretary.
    For years he continued in this position, all the
time continuing his riding with prize-winning horses,
and then he persuaded Baumann to build the Bilt-
more Hotel. Baumann built the hotel, installed Jack
Bowman as manager, and then died—leaving the
young Canadian solely in charge of his large inter-
ests.
                          V
   Meanwhile another Irishman was carving out his
destinies in another part of the world—Florida.
Charles Flynn had made Jacksonville his home for
ten years now, working first in lumbermills as a fore-
man boss, then as his own manager in a building
business he started.
       WHEN TWO IRISHMEN GET TOGETHER             81
    H e took an interest in politics, too, and when a
 program of good roads was at last decided upon by
the State of Florida, Flynn was elected Highway
 Commissioner. In this capacity he built the first
macadam road in the State—from Jacksonville to.
St. Augustine.
   His herculean energy and his ability as a builder
and estimator—Flynn has always been a wizard at
figures—widened his reputation to include the whole
southeast. T o him came one William Candler, of
soft-drink fame, who lamented Atlanta's lack of a
first-class hotel and offered to back one if a compe-
tent organization could be found to run it and if
Flynn would put his experience and knowledge into
its construction.
   "Wait," said Flynn, "I think I know how this
thing can be worked. There's a little Irishman up
North that I met once who's by all odds the best
hotel man in the country. Suppose we go see him?"
   They went to New York and Charles Francis
Flynn introduced William Candler to John McEntee
Bowman.
   Candler offered to put up most of the money,
Bowman agreed to build and staff and manage the
hotel as one of the Biltmore group, and Flynn was
given the job of supervising the construction.
  The two Irishmen had got together.
82 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA

                         VI

    In the meantime Bowman had been having his
 troubles. Not without tremendous difficulty had the
 immense Biltmore chain been built up. Baumann's
 death found the New York Biltmore in very deli-
cate financial shape. Every creditor came down on
the new President with urgent demands that they
be paid.
    Bowman called a meeting of creditors and faced
them.
    "Gentlemen," he said, "what is all the panic
about? Didn't you know an Irishman had this thing
in tow? You'll get your money. Now—go home
and be good."
    They got their money. Bowman went forth into
the money market and talked it out of the men
who had it—notably the Armours of Chicago.
    This was just before the war. With his initial
success at the New York Biltmore Bowman became
known as the astutest hotel financier in the country.
Millionaires no longer had to be begged to lend him
money—they sat on his doorstep with their wallets
in their hands.
                        VII
   Charles Francis Flynn was now an active executive
in the brilliant army of John McEntee Bowman.
       WHEN TWO IRISHMEN GET TOGETHER                 83
Bowman recognized in Flynn the vision and driving
ability which in the hotel business means genius.
   Flynn suggested to Bowman, who was becoming
interested in Florida, that a good hotel might profit-
ably be built in Havana, which prohibition in the
United States and the Florida boom had suddenly
transformed into a city of great touristic possibilities.
   Together they visited Havana and arranged to buy
the Sevilla office-building and turn it into a hotel.
Flynn, the former boss of Florida lumbermen, was
told to go ahead with the job.
   How he did it is one of the epics of hotel build-
ing. The deal to buy the building was done in the
summer of 1919, a few months before prohibition
became effective. Bowman wanted the hotel to open
that winter. It was Flynn's job to get rid of the
tenants of the building, some of whom had long
leases, and this he did—partly by an Irishman's
blarney and partly by finding them premises else-
where.
   Then redecoration of the hotel began. In New
York Bowman did his part and ships began to arrive
in Havana harbor filled with furniture, beds, table-
ware, carpets, glassware, silverware, sheets, blankets
—everything needed to start the hotel.
   A few weeks before the hotel was to be opened,
on New Year's Eve, 1919-20, the longshoremen of
84 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
Havana went out on strike. Ships loaded with neces-
sities lay in the harbor, at anchor, unable to unload.
It was as much as one's life was worth to visit the
docks.
   But Flynn had to have those supplies. So he or-
ganized a miniature army of strike-breakers, promis-
ing them unheard-of wages, and himself led the
assault on the docks. A few heads came near being
broken but the ships were unloaded—all but one.
   This ship could not enter the harbor because of a
storm. And it contained all the tables for the hotel!
   The day before the hotel was to open every-
thing was in place except—there were no chairs or
tables. It was a situation to daunt anyone, and a
local Spanish newspaper satirically announced that,
as was predicted, the new hotel would not open.
   Flynn sent a messenger to the paper demanding a
retraction. "The hotel will open as scheduled," he
stated.
   Then he set a gang of men making chairs and
tables out of packing-cases on a vacant lot.
   The hotel was opened exactly to time. An Irish-
man had laughed at fate again.

                        VIII
  From then on the association of John McEntee
Bowman and Charles Francis Flynn, of the Canadian
              THE TWO IRISHMEN
John McEntee Bowman        Charles Francis Flynn
      WHEN TWO IRISHMEN GET TOGETHER                85
Irishman and the Boston Irishman, became hard and
fast. Together they built the immense Miami-Bilt-
more at Coral Gables, which for the next decade
almost certainly will remain the world's finest hotel.
They built other hotels in Florida.
   Then the Florida boom showed signs of collapsing
and the astute Bowman and no less astute Flynn
again turned their attention to Havana.
   Havana, they were convinced, would one day be
the greatest tourist winter resort on the North Ameri-
can continent. It had everything—personal liberty,
wonderful climate, good hotels, a foreign atmosphere
and a friendly welcome. The Riviera was becoming
overcrowded. Bowman, in his semiannual visits to
Europe, had watched the tourist business develop
there with a keen eye. At one time he had thought
of hotels in London and Paris, but wisely he de-
cided to concentrate his energies on his own continent.
   Flynn, in Havana, negotiated for the gambling
concession and acquired the racetrack and the Casino
Nacional from Carlos M . de Céspedes and Senator
Cortina. These deals were put through and Bow-
man, the horseman, found himself proprietor of a
racing plant.
  Then the two Irishmen went one step further.
They announced that near Havana they would build
86     W H E N IT'S COCKTAIL T I M E IN CUBA

the town of Biltmore, which would be to the United
States what Monte Carlo is to Europe.
   The new resort would be, they said, the most
luxurious in the whole world. In it would be palatial
clubs, hotels, golf, polo and tennis grounds; a casino;
and a port of entry for yachts.
   Also, although they did not say so, the building
and success of the Cuban Monte Carlo would prove
the truth of a certain adage well-known in the New
World:
   When two Irishmen get together something is aft
to happen.
                 C H A P T E R VII

   A J U G OF R U M BENEATH A COCOANUT TREE,
           A DINNER-DANCE, AND T H O U

D o you remember the embarrassment of the funda-
mentalist Sunday-school preacher whose small pupil
persisted in wanting specific data on Heaven?
   "Is it hot?"
   "Always nice and warm, sonny."
   "Then there ain't no skatin'. Nor tobogganin'.
Who wants to go there?"
   When therefore I present to you a purely in-
dividual version of Paradise it must be understood
I fully acknowledge that there are people in the
world whose idea of a home is a moss-grown manor
in Surrey, or a staid, respectable mansion on Com-
monwealth Avenue, or a farm in Virginny—or Kain-
tucky —or Ioway.
   Didacticism is not a fault of mine. Every Heaven
has its drawbacks. Home is where the heart is.
Home also is the address the tax- and installment-
collector knows. Conversely, any Paradise can be-
come a hell if you—or your wife—don't happen to
like it.
                        87
88 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
    So I will ask your patience only while I draw a
little picture.
    Imagine, please, that you are the possessor of a
mission-style "cottage" standing in its own grounds
 some ten miles west of Havana. The house has
bathrooms, telephones, electric ice-boxes and, like
any other real home, a servant problem. It has
God's own central heating which you cannot turn
off and on at will, but which you can humor in part
by skillful adjustment of dress, nourishment and
temper, and frequent supply of ice-cold drinks.
   The interior of this "cottage" differs in few
fundamental details from any gentleman's residence
the world over. That is to say, you sleep in beds of
your own choosing, you eat from dishes and tables
of your own purchase, and the rest of the furniture
is according to your individual taste—or that of
your wife.
   The floors will be of tile, washed off every day.
With frequent washings the tiles take on a pleasing
gloss. They serve the double purpose of helping
to keep the house cool and of discouraging the ants
from explorations in the Hepplewhite highboy.
   The windows, too, will look a little odd to north-
ern eyes. They will be smaller than the kind mostly
seen where you come from, and each small pane will
         A JUG OF RUM . . . AND THOU                  89
be equipped with individual shutters and a little
door, which you can open or close according to how
much air you feel you need. These shuttered win-
dows do not make the rooms any lighter than they
should be, but they certainly discourage heat.
   The house will be plentifully provided with ter-
races, porches and balconies, and these in turn will
be furnished with large, comfortable rocking-chairs,
the one essential piece of furniture in Cuba. A
Cuban family moving into an unfurnished house
buys the rocking-chairs first, then the kitchen stove.
   Around and about this exceptionally pleasing
house grow various exotic blossoms, magenta bou-
gainvillæa, Chinese hibiscus, pink coralillos, or climb-
ing tea-roses, for example. In the garden grow tall,
graceful cocoanut; royal palms, stateliest of trees;
royal poincianas—lovely but a bit of a nuisance for
the gardener; bottle palms and corozo palms; bam-
boo trees, banana trees, mango trees, star-apple trees,
chirimoya (Cuban custard melon) trees, custard-
apple trees, grape-fruit trees, orange trees, lime trees,
guanabana trees, avocado (aguacate: alligator-pear)
trees, mamey-apple trees—oh, and a lot more if you
like fruit; you have but to plant them.
   The vegetable garden (the month is January)
reveals ripe garden vegetables of the usual kind—
carrots, lettuce, cabbage, potatoes, corn, asparagus,
90 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
 romaine—and a few Cuban vegetables, some of
 which are very tasty indeed.
   A l l the year round the garden will provide you
 with fresh vegetables and fruit. If you are lucky
 or forehanded enough to possess a guava tree you
may also have preserves—the most delicious known
to man.
   At the end of the back garden—beyond the banana
grove and the chicken-house, past where the peacock
is screaming and the turkeys are strutting—a little
gate in the wall gives on to an eighteen-hole golf
course built by Donald Ross.
   Just outside the front gate is a stretch of sandy
beach. The beach is washed by cool, not-quite-tepid
crystal water, kept from being too rough by a double
reef of pink-and-white coral gleaming out there in
the sunshine, a reef which does not keep out the
swarms of small fish on which it can, if you like, be
your daily pleasure to feed.
   Having dashed from your practically-open-air bed
into a sea not cold enough to chill, you slip into any-
old-thing and plod around a few holes to warm up
for breakfast. Breakfast is a wonderful thing. I f
you are wise—or like your evening rum—you will
start it off with iced cocoanut milk. Then an or-
ange or grapefruit or pineapple from your own gar-
den. Then some hot coffee—straight from the
         A JUG OF RUM . . . AND THOU              91
coffee plantations near Trinidad—some ham-and-
eggs—eggs but lately laid by your own hens—and
you are ready for the work of the day. If you have
to go to town, now's the time. Otherwise—letters,
accounts, bills.
   Business being finished, how about five or six
holes before lunch? Then a run down to the Club
for a cocktail? And, after lunch, what price a set
of tennis or so? And don't forget, at dusk you're
taking the launch out after some sailfish. They're
biting a few miles off-shore.
   Then another cocktail—being politely attired in
white now—at the Mango Grove. Afterward—a
cool and lazy dinner served out on the terrace, with
a few assorted guests—or maybe you'll want to dine
at the Club or the neighboring hotel? Just as you
like—the boy with the bicycle-chair will take you
there in a minute or so.
   And after dinner, with its accompaniment of
good French or Spanish wines, there are multitudes
of things to do. You may, for example, go to bed!
Or you may indulge in another game of tennis, under
the electric lights. Or you may decide to put on
formal dress, invite a beautiful companion in a Paris
gown, and, at intervals of roulette or baccarat, sit
over a quart of champagne on the Casino terrace,
looking into her eyes. . . .
92 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBAA
    If you like dancing, Broadway syncopation awaits
you in Club, hotel or Casino. In the latter building
is the Opera—which of the Marys is singing tonight:
 Garden, Lewis or McCormic?           Over under the
mango trees is the open-air motion-picture theater,
with first-run pictures straight from the studios.
    The cement-walk bordered Lagoon, with its fine
ladies and gentlemen—fellow-seekers with yourself
of the Ultimate in relaxation—promenading in bi-
cycle chariots, is dotted with gondolas, and from an
island in the center comes the enchanted music of a
string orchestra, playing the dreamy music of the
South: La Golondrina, La Paloma, Alejandra,
Maria-Marie.      Or perhaps la chanson hindoue is
wafted in all its Slav melancholy across the moonlit
surface of the palm-fringed lake.
   Over across the Bay are the thousand-and-one
lights of Havana, the "diamond necklace" of the
Malecon gleaming faintly its myriad reflection into
the dark waters of the sea. Havana, with its the-
aters, bands playing in the plazas, and its cosmopoli-
tan life teeming its streets, is thirty minutes away.
   The children's playground shows faintly on the
beach to the right of the Clubhouse, but the children
who have thronged it throughout the day are safe
in their screened-porch beds now.
   You wonder what to do now. Shall it be Havana
         A JUG OF RUM . . . AND THOU               93
and the fleshpots?—Or just another whirl in the
Casino?—Or a moonlight bathe between the reefs?
—Or one more bottle of wine with the Lady in
Green?—Or shall it be bed?
   You decide on a bathe and then bed, and say as
much to the Lady in Green, who nods, vanishes, and
reappears shortly, her slim form clad in a bathing-
suit. Together you cut through the silent waters or
lazily float listening to the lagoon orchestra, which
out here in the darkness sounds a mystic melody
from fairyland. And afterward, "Good-night" to
the Green Lady—and the luxury of dreams in a
scented, tropical night. . . .
   Just a picture and nothing more? Not at all.
. . . The Clubhouse is built. . . . The lagoon is
completed. . . . The lazy, rambling, flower-covered
hotel awaits the magician's wand which will set it
teeming with life. . . . The beach, the reefs, the
mango-groves, the perfumed splendor of the Tropics
is there, waiting for you. . . . The golf, the tennis,
the bridle-paths are ready. . . . The first seekers of
the blue-bird are there, in their hundred-thousand-
dollar "bungalos." . . . Biltmore is a reality. The
Cuban Monte Carlo is achieved.
   And two Irishmen chuckle as they stand, arm in
arm, on the Clubhouse terrace, surveying the scene.
                       CHAPTER VIII
DO Y O U C O U N T R Y - C L U B ?        A N D W H A T is   CÉSPEDES ?

                                     I

As we leave the home-made Heaven inadequately
described in Chapter Seven we turn our car into
Country Club Park, the most exclusive as it is the
most beautiful suburban residential district of Ha-
vana.
   Country Club Park, developed and managed by
the Trust Company of Cuba, is an illustration of the
skill of the landscape artist in turning to advantage
the natural attractions of the Cuban scenery. What
was merely a pool of water—and a muddy pool at
that—has been transformed into a crystal-clear la-
goon fringed by green lawns and various exotic
shrubs, beneath which children play and ducks strut.
Around the lagoon is one of a series of smooth
boulevards along which are built some of those mag-
nificent houses which have given to Havana the repu-
tation of being "the City of Beautiful Homes."
The architecture is Cuban, which is part Spanish,
part Native and part Modern, and resembles closely
                                     94
             DO YOU COUNTRY-CLUB?                  95
the style generally followed in Southern California.
The houses are usually of two stories and stand in
large grounds covered with flowers which bloom
throughout the year. One of the largest houses, a
show-place, is occupied by Noble Brandon Judah,
American Ambassador to Cuba succeeding General
Enoch Crowder. In this house Charles Lindbergh
was entertained by the American colony after com-
pleting his epochal tour of Central America and the
West Indies in February, 1928.
    Another large and rather peculiar-looking house
is the residence of George S. Ward, the American
master-baker. M r . Ward, it appears, had an organ.
It was a large organ and would have done credit to
a big church. So when he decided to build a home in
Havana he called the architects together and showed
them the organ.
    "Build me," he said, "a house to fit this instru-
ment!"
    The result is the commanding mansion in Coun-
 try Club Park, which visiting architects have been
known to spend hours just looking at. Part of the
house is Spanish. Part is Norman. I f you look at
it from one quarter, it holds reminiscences of the
 Tudor period. If, however, you walk around to the
 other side, you spot the influence of the American
 Colonials. The net result, although curious, achieves
96 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
 distinction and—who knows—may be the beginning
 of a "period."
    M r . Ward, to occupy himself and his popular son
Walter Ward, founded a dairy in Havana.
    Not far from the Ward house is the amazing
residence of Julio Blanco Herrera, owner of the
Tropical Brewery, where visitors are given all the
beer they can drink, free. I f the Ward home fol-
lows three styles, the Herrera house follows none
at all. It is unique.
    At the entrance of Country Club Park, on an
eminence, is a tall Norman house occupied by Carlos
 Miguel de Céspedes. Before arriving at the Cés-
pedes mansion you may turn off to the right toward
Havana, passing on the left the new jai-alai frontón,
which in summer-time is the Casino, and on the right
the Casino Nacional—which, it being daytime, we
shall not visit now.
    Just beyond the Casino Nacional is the Country
Club, with its splendid golf-course occupying an
undulating valley in front of the clubhouse.
   The Country Club on Sunday afternoons is the
rendezvous of Havana society. There are nearly
1,500 members, part Cuban and part American, and
these with their guests are nearly all to be found
taking tea on the terrace of a Sunday afternoon as
soon as the races are over.
             DO YOU COUNTRY-CLUB?                 97
   The Country Club dates from 1912 and owes its
inception to a small group of Americans led by an
energetic man named Frederick Snare, who is still
the abiding genius of the place. Snare was formerly
senior partner of the world-renowned firm of Snare
and Triest, and is now head of the Frederick Snare
Corporation, but for some years practically his only
interest in life has been the Country Club and its
links. These latter have a par of 73 for eighteen
holes, or 7,300 yards, and some of the holes are very
sporty. They are particularly sporty inasmuch as
none of the players quite knows what the hazards
may be from one week to the next; Mr. Snare has
a habit of moving traps which displease him over-
night, all of which adds to the gaiety of golfers in
general.
   The clubhouse, besides the wonderful terrace
where one dines and dances, has a comfortable smok-
ing-room and bar, a library, a large locker-room and
a swimming-bath.

                         II
   You are now, as you may imagine, in the "smart"
district of Havana. Y o u have just come from Bilt-
more, have traversed the beautiful Country Club
Park, have had a look at the Casino, and now here
you are at La Play a de Marianao, adjoining which
98 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
 is the fine Yacht Club, with the most distinguished
 Cuban membership of any club in Havana.
    By all means exhaust every subterfuge and every
 friendship to obtain a card of admission to the Yacht
 Club on one of its famous gala nights. It is like
no other club in the world. One dances and dines on
a terrace overlooking the Caribbean and midnight
bathing is a feature.
    Touching the elegant Yacht Club on the Havana
side is La Playa, or beach, Havana's Coney Island,
which is another of the enterprises owned and man-
aged by the syndicate headed by those omnipresent
Irishmen, Bowman and Flynn. Here are restaurants,
bars, and of course gaming-rooms, and one may
bathe throughout the year, but it is in summer, from
May onward, that one sees the Cubans bathing, and
then not before sunset.
    The Cuban has an absurd superstition to the effect
that there is a season called "winter" in Havana.
Accordingly, on the first of November, even though
the temperature be 85° Fahrenheit, all Cuban gentle-
men put on their dark suits and stiff collars. They
can do it doubtless without danger to the collars,
being Cuban. I f this writer tried it he wouldn't, as
the saying is, have no collar. . . . However—
   Not until the hot, coppery skies of May succeed
the wild winds of April do the Cubans concede that,
             DO YOU COUNTRY-CLUB?                  99
possibly, winter is over, and reappear in white.
Flannels and worsteds being too hot they wear white
duck, crash linen, Palm Beach, lightweight gabardine
or alpaca.
   It may be noted here that the visitor to Havana in
winter will please wear his coat. H e may leave his
vest at home if he wishes, but the coat is de rigueur.
Otherwise he may be thought to come from Miami,
and suffer ribald sarcasm from the Havana Ameri-
cans to whom Miami has about the same status that
St. Paul has to Minneapolis, San Francisco to Los
Angeles, or Mentone to Cannes.
   Between the Playa and Havana now stretches one
of the very finest boulevards pridefully pointed to by
any city in the world. It is called by two names:
Avenida Carlos Miguel de Céspedes, after the man
who built it; and Fifth Avenue. It stretches, wide
and straight, from Biltmore to Havana, which it en-
ters at the Malecón. Its two roadways of hard coral
rock are separated by lawns and flower-beds and it is
bordered by Australian dwarf pines. Toward Ha-
vana it passes through the suburb of Miramar, which
was built mostly during the Dance of the Millions
by a wealthy old Cuban whose money had been
made from printing lottery tickets, and who was
alleged to have committed suicide before his gran-
diose plans for a luxury-development were com-
100 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
 pleted. A t his death the Mendoza family and
 Carlos Miguel de Céspedes carried on the job.
   At the end of Fifth Avenue as it crosses the
bridge over the Almandares River into the Vedado
section is the old Céspedes homestead, inhabited now
by Señor Céspedes senior. It has its own private
yacht basin.
   A block toward the sea from the tall Presidente
 Hotel is the Ruston School, which has an interna-
tional reputation for excellence.
   Since wherever you go in Havana you are bound
to hear the word "Céspedes" repeated as though it
were some universal panacea, you may be tempted to
ask "what IS Céspedes?"
   Well, Céspedes, first, is a descendant of Carlos
Manuel de Céspedes, who was one of the greatest
figures in Cuban history. He was that combination
of personalities which made celebrities in those days
 —soldier, lawyer, poet, patriot. M r . Terry says
that he was to Cuba what Manuel Hidalgo was to
Mexico. In 1868 at his sugar plantation at Yara
he voiced the famous Grito de Yara, a turning-point
in the struggle for a freedom which was not to come
until thirty years later. However, he was the head
of the revolution of that time, became its president,
and remained in this office until captured and shot
six years after his pronunciamiento.
  The present Carlos Miguel de Céspedes is to
             DO YOU COUNTRY-CLUB?               101
Havana (not to quote Mr. Terry) what Haussmann
was to Paris. H e is, as Secretary of Public Works,
the master-builder in whose brain has been con-
ceived most of the great beautifying projects carried
through in recent years. General Wood imagined
and built the first lap of the Malecón, but it re-
mained for Céspedes to carry the work to completion
at the cost of nearly herculean energy. T o him also
is owed Fifth Avenue. And it is Céspedes who is
hurrying on the Central Highway which is to link
the western end of Cuba with the eastern end.
Until Céspedes forced through the law providing
for the construction of the Central Highway no poli-
tician in Cuba had dared vote the funds necessary,
and automobile traffic within the island remained
impracticable through lack of roads and bridges.
   When this road is completed automobile tourists
will find a new Mecca, for the interior of Cuba is
today almost as it was centuries ago—as unspoiled, as
unknown, as picturesque, and as wild.
   Dynamic Céspedes and mercurial Flynn are val-
uable citizens to Havana and to Cuba. "Cuba for
the Cubans" sounds fine as a war-cry, but just now,
with sugar at three cents, tourist dollars are badly
needed. Being the genuinely great men they both
are, Céspedes and Flynn have their share of enemies
engendered by the petty jealousies of politics and
prejudice.
                   CHAPTER IX
  COCKFIGHTS AND THE CARNIVAL. A NIGHT AT
                 "JAI-ALAI"

                           I

T H E Cuban is nothing if not a sport. But he does
not consider a game worth playing unless he can bet
on it.
   H e is a gambler born. H e will bet, literally, on
anything, and when he has no more money left he
will bet his other possessions, one by one.
   The papers are full of examples of the dire straits
to which his fatal proclivity can drag the Cuban
sportsman. Today El Mundo, the greatest of the
twenty-six daily newspapers of Havana, mentioned
a typical case. A Cuban lady had appealed to the
police to arrest her husband. H e was, she said, about
to pawn their bed.
   "It is all we have left," she said, rather piteously.
"First he pawn his pay for months ahead—and they
fire him. Then he sell our house. Then he sell our
furniture, room by room, bit by bit. Now he want
to sell our bed and make us sleep on the floor."
                          102
          COCKFIGHTS AND THE CARNIVAL             103
   The experienced and ever-gentlemanly Cuban po-
lice found the man and held a conference with him.
In the end he agreed, so the paper said, to go to
work and spare the bed.
   The Cuban gambler is a perpetual optimist. H e
always believes that his luck will change—that to-
night he will pick the winners at jai-alai, that Sun-
day his cock will vanquish his opponent, and that
within the ten days he will win the Grand Prize of
the lottery.
   H e will go on believing these things all his life,
though his choice at jai-alai be monotonously de-
feated, though his best cocks bite the dust, though
none of his numbers in the lottery return him a
dollar.
   H e will shrug his shoulders disconsolately at first,
but in a moment his face will be alight again and
he will laugh.
   " I lose, si, but next time I win—next time—
manorial"
   Every grade of native Cuban gambles. President
Machado has his racing-stable and his private ring
for cock-fighting. Some of the most daring gamblers
in European casinos—vide Hannibal de Mesa and
Matias Alfredo de Bétancourt—are Cuban born.
And the rank and file of the Cuban populace, from
proud white to unblushing black, will literally and
104 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
frequently bet its only shirt on anything on which it
sets its fancy.
   The Cuban national game is supposed to be jai-
alai, and judged by its popularity it perhaps is. But
it is not Cuban in the sense that baseball is American
or cricket English. Jai-alai is only another name for
pelota, the Basque game played from Bilbao to
Bayonne for centuries.
    Moreover, jai-alai is a purely professional game.
It is not intercollegiate or played by amateur clubs.
It is played in the huge frontóns, which cost a lot to
erect because of their peculiar shape, by teams of
professionals many of whom come annually from
the Basque coast for the purpose.
   The Cubans claim, some of them, that pelota was
originated by the Aztecs, and that Hernán Cortés
took the game with him when he returned from
Mexico to Spain, but variations were played in E u -
rope long before Cortés was born. Notably the
French jeu de paume, the Italian pallone and the
British fives closely resemble the game as it is now
played, except that in pelota the player sends the
ball from a sort of basket (cesta) attached to his
wrist, instead of hitting it with his hand alone.
    The balls, pelotas, are launched by the players
in teams of two against concrete walls between 35
and 40 feet high, and must be caught on the rebound
          COCKFIGHTS AND THE CARNIVAL             105
by the player of the opposing team. Points are
 scored according to the skill in catching and re-
launching the ball. Thirty to thirty-five points gen-
erally decides a game.
   Hundreds and sometimes thousands of Cubans
throng the big frontóns for hours during the jai-alai
season, for matches are played all day and far into
the night. The play is incredibly rapid and the play-
ers often incredibly fat, and the wise onlooker finds
a seat well-removed from the field of play, which
is called el fiso, because the balls, harder than those
used in tennis, are sometimes sent, with terrific
velocity, into the audience.
   But these thousands of enthusiasts do not play
jai-alai themselves, although they know every fine
point of the game and the record of every player.
For them jai-alai is merely another excuse to get a
bet down, and the total of such bets, taken at bet-
ting booths as at the races, is enormous.
   There is a Cuban saying that there is more in
jai-alai than meets the eye—a play on words which
means that not only is the ball sometimes hit so hard
that it cannot be seen in flight, but also some of the
losing plays are so rapid that they cannot be judged.
Unless you wish to trust wholly to luck or are "in
the know" it is wise to stay away from the betting
booth at the jai-alai game.
106 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
   A feature of the game of jai-alai which sets it
apart from all other endurance tests—and-pelotais
probably after ice-hockey the fastest game in the
world—is the peculiar method of training followed
by the players. These never exercise, eat everything
they like, which is usually a lot—and consume sev-
eral bottles of wine, to say nothing of funtador, per
day. The Basque "Chico" once told me that he
drank two bottles of Spanish wine to a meal; and he
looked it; but he was the fastest man on his feet
I have ever seen in action.

                         II
   Cock-fighting, while undoubtedly cruel and in a
way stupid, seems to me to be a much more legiti-
mate "sport" than jai-alai, because once two cocks
are in the ring, spoiling, each of them, to annihilate
the other, not a man in the audience can predict the
outcome.
   Even at cock-fighting there are ways to cheat, but
these are all well-known and guarded against. The
thighs, for instance, may be treated with a prepara-
tion which toughens them, so before the birds enter
the ring they are carefully sponged, and if there has
been any cheating the preparation shows. The bone
spurs fitted to the claws are measured and each
cock's seen to be of the same length. They must
         COCKFIGHTS AND THE CARNIVAL             107
balance each other in weight. A cock that runs away
is beaten.
   There is more actual science to cock-fighting than
to bull-fighting, which was forbidden in Cuba by
General Brooke in 1898. The pedigrees of the cocks
are as carefully watched over as those of thorough-
bred race-horses. A whole section is devoted by El
Mundo, on Mondays to cock-fighting.
   The training of the birds is undertaken by men
who earn large sums. I f a gamecock show cowardice
in battle he is summarily executed, and not only he
but all his brood as well, so that the race may not
be contaminated.
   Gamecocks are trained from infancy to fight but
are not allowed to hurt themselves except in legiti-
mate battle. O f mornings they are kept hours run-
ning up and down a long boarded trench, to toughen
their thighs and muscles. They are permitted to
fight and slay a few minor birds before they actually
enter the ring.
   Gamecocks are valuable. By his possession of one
or more you will know a Cuban sportsman's wealth.
Some gamecocks of exceptional breed and many vic-
tories have sold for as much as a thousand dollars,
and sums of five hundred dollars are quite fre-
quently paid. An average gamecock will cost one
hundred dollars trained.
108 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
   Cock-fighting differs from every other sport in
that not only the owner's money but the life of his
bird itself is risked. A few minutes may be sufficient
to decide the fall of a cock worth hundreds of dollars
and the loss of a large wager.
   The popularity of such a cruel sport as cock-fight-
ing is inexplicable to anyone who has not studied the
sport. It is, however, wrong to lay it down entirely
to the innate strain of cruelty that is in certain men
toward animals.
   The sport is a science. In a day of, say, fifty
fights very often no two of the gamecocks will have
fought alike, used the same tactics.
   There are the birds which resemble Dempsey
in their manner of fighting—quick to the clinch and
then all in-fighting; never giving the other bird a
chance to take breath. A "clinch" in cock-fighting
is achieved by one bird putting its head under the
other's wing.
   There are other birds with tactics that recall
Tunney's—these reserve their skill for final mo-
ments when they shall have tired out their opponent
by continually avoiding his rushes.
   Still other birds are adept at ruses. They will
pretend to run away and then, as the other cock
is hot after them, turn suddenly and catch him un-
awares. One lucky dig of the tiny bone spur may
          COCKFIGHTS AND THE CARNIVAL               109
be sufficient to kill or cripple a cock. A fight may
be over in the first minute or it may last for hours.
   To an American witnessing a cock-fight for the
first time the spectacle is less revolting than it sounds.
There is practically no blood, and feathers do not fly
for the reason that all the small ones are carefully
plucked out beforehand, leaving only the strong
wing and tail feathers.
    It is not until a cock has been downed and is
obliged by its owner to continue fighting although
crippled, in the hope that a lucky stroke of its spur
will kill its opponent, that the sport becomes ob-
viously cruel. Until then the cocks have seemed to
enjoy their scrap and not one gamecock in a hundred
will run away. And there is something human and
appealing about the way a winning cock, bloody and
bedraggled, will plant its claw on the inanimate body
of its conquered opponent and utter a loud crow of
triumph. In much the same spirit did a chasse pilot
during the war cheer through blood-sweating lips as
he saw his enemy crash to death.
    More than one lesson can be learned from cock-
fighting, from the cocks that fight as well as from the
tense, absorbed, swarthy men who train them and
bet on them.
    Cock-fighting in Havana is legal and takes place
in a ring opposite the Havana Electric Railway sta-
110 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
tion on Jesùs del Monte Street. There are matches
Sundays, Mondays and Saturdays, from 9 a.m.
until 6 p.m.
   As a spectacle or as an object-lesson one cock-
fight should be seen and it will be found of passionate
interest. T o reach your box you must cross the
arena itself, even though a battle may be in progress
at the time—but don't worry; the cocks are too busy
with each other to bother about you, and they never
attack humans anyway.
   The din is deafening. Nearly everybody has
taken sides, faces glisten with sweat, bets are tossed
to and fro, odds are offered; the owners of the birds
have leaped into the ring urging their respective
birds on with gesture and pleading profanity. It is
bedlam. O f a sudden, there is a long-drawn-out
" A h - h - h ! " and—silence. One of the cocks is down.
Then, in the stillness there sounds the triumphant
crow—more often it is a croak—of the victor. H e is
picked up lovingly and almost kissed by his proud
owner. . . . As for the losing bird, his disgusted
owner picks him up by his feathers and throws him
ignominously into a sack. He'll be eaten that night
—and tough eating he'll make.
         COCKFIGHTS AND THE CARNIVAL           111

                        III
   Not only will the Cuban bet on the least provoca-
tion but he will make merry on the smallest pretext.
Like the Niçois he believes in the gospel of carrying
things with a smile.
   The Cubans have the sun in their hearts. They
work, play, eat, drink, gamble, make love and fight
with the same insouciance that once was the heritage
of every Latin. They love money, but only because
they find so much pleasure in spending, betting or
giving it away. They make a game of everything,
even their daily labors; a Cuban housewife, drudge
and maternally overworked as she may be, has al-
ways a song on her lips.
   There is something Celtic about the Cuban that
commands the affection of those fortunate foreigners
who really know them.
   They are generous until generosity with them
becomes nearly a vice. They are improvident. They
are frugal only during their periods of poverty.
The humblest laborer in Cuba is a poet, and there
is that within the soul of every Cuban which reaches
down and plucks the stark fundamentals of life : one
is born; one must live; one must die—let us make
the best of what is inevitable and have a good time!
   Despite the warm suns under which they propa-
112 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
gate and despite also the fantastic miscomprehen-
sions of Northern intellects, there is nothing vicious
in the Cuban nature. Sexually a Cuban girl blos-
soms earlier than her sisters born in colder climes;
but maturity in her case comes earlier also, and,
mature, no woman is so utterly and fatalistically do-
mestic as the Cuban. Her subsequent babies come
 with a shrug—not, as is often the case with the
Northern female, with a grimace. Being nearer the
fundamentals of nature she is also nearer its truths.
And no nation on earth adores its children as the
Cubans adore theirs.
   It must be realized that the Cuban is a race apart.
A Cuban is more a Cuban, if anything, than an
American is an American. He has as distinct an
individuality as he has a nationality. It may at times
be difficult to distinguish between Panamanian, Hon-
duran, Ecuadoran, Costa Rican or Venezuelan, but
the Cuban, as the Mexican, stands alone. That is
why patriotism to the Cuban is such a precious thing.
It is a nationality christened by the blood of thou-
sands to whom "Cuba" meant "Mother." Their
blood is Spanish, but Spanish far removed. The
blood of Cuba came from the heroic days of Spain.
   The temperament of the Cuban, then, is gay,
amorous, generous and sentimental. The philosophy
of his existence is written in blank verse to the be-
         COCKFIGHTS AND THE CARNIVAL             113
guiling strains of the danzón. Life to him is less
of a laugh than a poem.
   H e is, intensely, gregarious. H e loves to fore-
gather with his fellows, to rival them in rhythmical
speech. His very language lends itself to the poetic
expression of his thoughts, and he is not chary of
words nor of phrases. He is at his best over food
and drink and loves nothing better than to empty
his eloquent soul at the banquets which are so vital
in Cuban public life.
   H e is most serious when he is speaking of his
country; sentimentally, Cuba to the Cuban is mother,
wife, mistress and child. When it comes to that
other passion nicknamed love he is incurably senti-
mental, but a laugh lies always behind his senti-
mentality. Love to the Cuban is not a serious busi-
ness—why should it be? It is life—it is happiness
—it is wine!
   Unfortunately the average visitor is not a student
of psychology. The tourist has few chances of
penetrating the Cuban mask—for mask the Cuban
has been obliged to wear in intercourse with the for-
eigner, in self-defense.
   But there is one period of the year when the
Cuban abandons his mask and light-heartedly wears
his temperament on his sleeve. That time is Car-
nival. O f all the countries in the world I know of
1 14 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
none which has so successfully retained the spirit of
Carnival as Cuba.

                          IV
   Carnival-time is when the Cuban takes life with
both hands—great joyous handfuls of it—and scat-
ters it wastefully, royally, prodigally.
   The drab business of life is forgotten, thrust far
into the background. Gaiety alone rules. By the
measure of your gaiety a playful god adjudges your
rank in the realm of happiness.
   Carnival usually commences the Sunday before
Ash Wednesday and continues until Easter, but oc-
casionally the season is advanced. It is a period of
fiesta, of grand balls, of gay parties, and of Carnival
parades on Sundays in which the whole town, visitors
and all, joins.
   T o be in these parades you must, first of all, at-
tune your soul to the spirit of the thing. Then,
choose an open car. Thirdly, find the prettiest girls
you know to sit in the car with you—and steel your
heart against jealousy when handsome Cuban boys
make open, ardent love to them, with a mocking
smile for you.
   You can have your revenge when an automobile-
load of Cuban beauties creeps alongside your own,
and you flirt no less openly and outrageously with
         COCKFIGHTS AND THE CARNIVAL            115
them. Carnival-time, remember, is the only time
when the Cuban girl is allowed out without her
duenna, her mother or her maid. Make the most
of it!
   At the National Opera House carnival balls you
will find Cuban society and such a wealth of pulchri-
tude as may dazzle your unaccustomed Northern
eyes. One of the biggest balls is that of the artists,
when police regulations regarding costumes (or lack
of them) are temporarily suspended. The life and
soul of these artists' balls is Conrado W . Massaguer,
the famous caricaturist, one of the glories of Cuba.
   Massaguer is a moving spirit of L a Minorite, a
club of the Cuban literati, for Cuba has her distinct
place in the world of literature and arts. Beltran y
Masses, the famous portrait-painter, is Cuban, and
so are many other celebrities of books and pictures.
Members of L e Minorite include Fernandez de
Castro, the much-feared critic of El Diario de la
Marina, oldest daily in Cuba; Marinello, the poet;
Ychazo, one of the editors of that extraordinary pub-
lication which calls itself after the year of its pub-
lishing—at present it is called "1928"; Cattorno, the
artist whose modern murals have been widely com-
mented upon; Bens, the architect with a Parisian
background; Roig de Leuchsenring, writer, who is
also a lawyer; George Manach, Harvard man and
116 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
critic for El Pais; Masique, leader of the avant-
garde of Cuban writers and editor of Atuei; Bar-
toleme Soler, the novelist who wrote Marcos Villari;
Dr. Juan Antiga, whose active career has included
selling newspapers, being a homeopath in Cuba, a
doctor in Venezuela, a diplomat elsewhere, who has
been a champion baseball player and who frequently,
for political reasons, has been under the eye of secret
police; and Octavio Seigle, writer, poet and drama-
tist.
    These men, editors of or contributors to the
various newspapers or magazines—Bohemia, El Fi-
garo, La Semana, La Politics Comica, Revista Bimes-
tra, Archivos del Folklore Cubano, La Semana
Comica, Carteles, El Social and many others—con-
stitute the nucleus of the temperamental crew which
Massaguer gathers around him annually to promote
the Artists' Ball. Massaguer's own magazines, El
Social and Carteles, are possibly today the best-
known publications printed in Spanish anywhere, and
this chiefly because of the caricaturist's own prolific
talent. H e publishes in winter a magazine in Eng-
lish called Havana.
   Go to the Artists' Ball and such of the other bailes
as you can, by all means. You will there see the
true Cuban danzón, softest, dreamiest, most delight-
ful of all ballroom dances, and the costumes will
amuse and dazzle.
                   CHAPTER X
      $100,000 FOR $29—IF YOU ARE LUCKY
                           I
THERE are just twenty-five thousand chances against
your winning the Cuban lottery if you should be
so foolish as to buy a ticket, so let nothing in this
chapter persuade you to buy one.
   However, it may be difficult to heed this advice if
you come to Cuba, for apparently every unemployed
man, woman and child in the island sells the tickets
when he or she has nothing better to do.
   They throng the streets, strings of tickets in one
hand and a hopeful, pleading look in their eyes as
they intone the number of the ticket they are sure, so
they will tell you, will win the grand prize. W h y ,
if this is so, they do not keep it themselves, is an-
other of those pleasant but perplexing little mysteries
which constantly beset one's path in Cuba.
   The lottery tickets are issued by the government
at a fixed price of twenty dollars, but they are not
sold to the public at that price, and this fact is the
chief argument opponents of the lottery have. The
tickets are apportioned between members of the gov-
                          117
118 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
ernment, from the president down, each having one
or more collectors' districts. The tickets are then
sold to the collectors at about $25 each, the differ-
ence representing the profit of the governor or legis-
lator. The collector, in turn, farms out the tickets
to the agencies, and these pass them on—always at a
profit—to the retailers, who may be store-keepers or
plain hawkers. Thus when you or I buy a ticket it
costs us anywhere from $27 to $30, only $20 of
which has actually gone into the kitty. O f course
this deplorable system materially increases the odds
against you.
   The tickets are divided into 100 parts and one can
buy one or more of these. Usually one buys them
in blocks of ten.
   Gerald Brandon, the brilliant newspaper man
whose great feat was the discovery of Pancho Villa
when all of Mexico was looking for him in vain,
and who lives in Havana, told me of a speculator, a
Chinaman, who found himself with three whole
tickets a few hours before the drawing. H e was
panic-stricken, for the tickets represented an invest-
ment of sixty dollars, considerable for him.
   After a night of hectic salesmanship he got rid
of all but two tickets and just before the announced
time of the drawing he met a compatriot who offered
to buy one of the others. His preference went for
    $100,000 FOR $29—IF YOU ARE LUCKY            119
a number which the ticket hawker himself rather
fancied, and he said so.
   "Either that ticket or none," said his client,
firmly.
   Finally they tossed and the client winning was
given the coveted ticket. The other one won the
grand prize and from being a simple hawker of lot-
tery tickets the Chinaman who had been unlucky in
the toss, as he thought, became instantaneously a man
of wealth and importance.

                         II
  Twenty-five thousand tickets are issued every ten
days. O f the half-million dollars thus obtained
30%, or $150,000, goes to the Treasury. The re-
maining $350,000 is paid back in premios, or prizes.
  The prizes are generally as follows:
         1 prize of                  $100,000
         1 prize of                    40,000
         1 prize of                    10,000
         5 prizes of                    2,000
        10 prizes of                    1,000
        16 prizes of                      500
       200 prizes of                      200
       993 prizes of                      100

   In addition, two premiums of $1,000 each are paid
to the holders of the numbers anterior and posterior
120 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
to the ticket winning $10,000; two premiums of
$500 each are paid to the holders of the numbers
anterior and posterior to the second winning number;
99 premiums of $200 each are paid to holders of
tickets in the same hundred as the grand prize, and
99 premiums of $100 each to the holders of tickets
in the same hundred as the second number.
   There are thus 1,429 chances to win something as
against 25,000 tickets issued. No other gambling
game in the world holds such a percentage against
the player.
                                III

   The Cuban National Lottery is "on the square."
It couldn't well be anything else, with so much
money involved, but notwithstanding this excessive
efforts are made to convince the public of the honesty
of the draw.
   The actual draw is made in public under the super-
vision of a committee appointed by the President, in
a building formerly occupied by the Cuban national
bank. Two small children, old enough to know
figures but not old enough to understand what it is
all about, are picked from the public orphanage,* by
  * This orphanage, in which every baby has an individual nurse, is
one of the sights no tourist should miss. It is situated on the Maceo
Plaza. Mothers unable to support their children may come to the
orphanage at night, place their baby in a specially contrived window,
    $100,000 FOR $29—IF YOU ARE LUCKY 121
hazard, at each drawing. Each of them takes a pill
from the giant cages when they have been twirled
and reads it aloud. The number is then read loudly
by an official announcer and inscribed by the secre-
taries. There are several secretaries and each news-
paper has a representative.
   Part of the payment of the government officials
and deputies is in lottery tickets, but this is not con-
sidered as payment but as a perquisite. They are
free to sell or keep their tickets as they please. This
explains why so many grand prizes fall to officials, a
fact which is responsible for practically all the sus-
picion with which the lottery is regarded by the
ignorant.
   "It is nearly always some rich person or member
of the government who wins the grand prize," you
will be told.
   After some investigation I found no justification
for this oft-repeated statement. The President's
wife won once, and one of his relatives won once.
Five of the present government have won large
prizes, but not the grand prize. On the contrary six
of the grand prizes during 1927 went to compara-
tively poor men, and the remainder, except for four,
ring the bell, and go away without ever having been seen from
within. At any time thereafter they may reclaim their baby by
proving its identity.
122 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
 were divided by numbers of persons who had bought
shares of the lucky tickets.
   It is the exception for the grand prize to be won
by any one person, though the event happens fre-
quently enough to help along the legend of easy
wealth.
   Facundo Bacardi, vice-president of the famous
Bacardi distilling firm, won the grand prize in 1927,
having made up his mind and sent a servant to buy a
ticket just at the last moment.
   "What did you do with the money?" I asked him.
   Sehor Bacardi's eyes opened wide in astonishment
at the question. I was, it seems, naïf.
   " W h y , I went to Paris, naturally!" he said.
   Those are the two dreams of the Cuban gentleman
 —to win the grand prize and go to Paris.

                         IV

   Hundreds of tales, some of them quite thrilling,
are told of "lottery luck."
   There is the famous story, for instance, of the
gambler who lost all his earthly possessions at cards
on Christmas Day. After mature consideration he
decided that the only thing left to do was to kill
himself. So he sent out cards to all his friends an-
nouncing his sudden demise, said good-bye to his
    $100,000 FOR $29—IF YOU ARE LUCKY 123
family over the telephone, and then pointed a re-
volver at himself and fired.
   Unfortunately, or fortunately, his aim was bad,
and he merely succeeded in ploughing a trench along
one side of his head. It stunned but did not kill him
and he awoke the next day in hospital.
   Two days later the annual Christmas lottery was
drawn and he was found to have the winning number
of the grand prize—which for this annual event is
$300,000.
   Then there is the story Conrado Massaguer tells,
of the woman whose landlord threatened dispos-
session because she could not pay her rent.
   "Give me two more days and I will pay you," she
said.
   " H o w will you pay in two days?"
   "On that day the lottery is drawn."
   "What does that matter?"
   " I shall win it."
   "What is the number of your ticket?"
   "I have no ticket yet."
   "But if you have no ticket how are you going to
get one—when you have no money?"
   " O h — I shall find one in the street perhaps."
   And that one of the poor man who passed a beggar
on the street. The latter besought alms.




                      1
124 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
   "Alas, poor man," he said disconsolately, "I have
 no money but—here, I have just spent my last
 pesetas for a lottery ticket. I will give you a tenth
share."
   The ticket won fifty thousand dollars.
   A Cuban sugar planter was being foreclosed by his
bank. H e borrowed thirty dollars, bought a lottery
ticket, and won the grand prize. An American, after
losses in the gaming clubs, shot himself, leaving be-
hind him a pocketbook in which was a lottery ticket
which won $10,000 two days later.
   Another man, desperate, shot himself, leaving to
his destitute widow only an I.O.U. given by a friend
for $50. The debtor, approached, had no money,
but was willing to go halves in a lottery ticket he
possessed. The ticket won the second prize and in-
stead of $50 the widow got $25,000.
   Tourists have won two grand prizes and many
minor ones. One grand prize fell to ten sailors of a
United States battleship, who had put $3 each to its
purchase. One of the ten had lost his share prior to
the drawing at poker. Incidentally these sailors did
not know of their luck for several weeks, their ship
being on a cruise. I do not know whether all nine
deserted forthwith.
   A high official of the Cuba Railroad told me that
he never let a drawing go by without buying at least
    $100,000 FOR $29—IF YOU ARE LUCKY 125
a tenth share in a ticket. " I have two brothers,"
he said, "one of whom has won $50,000 and another
$10,000; and my sister, she has won $5,000 twice.
So I think it is my turn next!"
   On the other hand you can talk to many people
in Cuba who have been buying lottery tickets ever
since the lottery began and who have never won any-
thing at all.
   They are in the majority.

                         V
   One warning word before we leave the fascinating
subject of the National Lottery and get on to the
Casino, where the percentages are less (but still
against y o u ) : D o not, should you be tempted into
buying a ticket, carry it with you into the United
States.
   You will be breaking the law if you do.
                  CHAPTER XI
THE CASINO: "WHERE THEY GET YOU COMIN' AN'
        GOIN' AN' MAKE YOU LIKE IT"

                         I

MEETING M r . John McEntee Bowman in the
smoking-room of the Leviathan one July evening,
he told me with enthusiasm of his projects in
Havana.
   " G o down there and take a look for yourself,"
said M r . Bowman, "but don't go and lose your
money in that Casino. Gosh, I've done it myself,
and I'm one of the owners. You can't beat that
game."
   In Havana M r . Charles Francis Flynn took me
over to the Casino the day before it opened.
   "Don't you go and play here, now," he warned
me. " Y o u can't beat that game."
   On the opening night I was standing behind a
pile of chips at the hazard game, anxiously fingering
a thinning sheaf of bills in a trousers-pocket. A hand
gripped my shoulder and a pleasant voice smote my
ear.
   "What," demanded M r . Fred Perry, manager of
                         126
                     THE CASINO                    127
the Casino, "are you doing there? Looking for
miracles? You can't beat that game."
   Twenty people besides myself heard him say it,
but we didn't believe him. W e figured he must have
some deep, dark, unguessable reason for wanting us
to quit playing. Maybe he thought we might win.
A-ha! That was it. H e was afraid we might win.
   Well, if he was afraid he needn't have been. . . .
   So while I satisfy my conscience by telling you to
visit the Casino, by all means, but not to gamble
there, I am moderately certain that once you see
that wheel spinning and those dice rattling and feel
that roll in your pocket itching you'll forget all about
me and my book, let alone my advice.
   And if you are one of the players that Dame For-
tune thinks can be kidded, and count your money
next morning to find that, indubitably, not only have
you made enough to pay for your dinner and all
expenses but are money in pocket as well, you may
 feel yourself justified in taking your copy of this
book and giving it a heave out into the Prado.
    "What does that man know about it?" you will
 say, contemptuously. " W h y , anyone can beat those
 games with a bit of luck."
    Ah, that "bit of luck."
    Luck is very simple. Anyone can understand luck.
 If you have just twenty dollars to your name, and
128 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
you walk into the Casino straight to the nearest
wheel, lay the twenty dollars on Number Thirteen,
and Number Thirteen wins—that's luck.
    I f you stroll into the baccarat room and hear the
croupier at the chemin de fer table droning, " A bank
of a thousand dollars, gentlemen; a bank of a thou-
sand dollars . . . " and you interrupt him with a
single word, "Banco" not knowing how often the
bank has won to reach that amount, and you then
draw two cards the sum total of which make nine,
then—that's luck.
    If, never having seen electric poker before in your
life (this happened to me) you pay a dollar to a
helpful gentleman behind the desk, who takes it and
puts it away as if for keeps, and then press five
little buttons in succession and make a straight
flush—well, that's luck too.
   And if you are down to one dollar at roulette and
cross over to the craps table and place your dollar
on the field, and win, and then place it on the point,
and win, and then keep on placing it and winning
(as also happened to me) until you have one hun-
dred dollars in front of you—that, also, is luck.
   It is really too bad that there should be two kinds
of luck—your own and the house's. Especially
since the house's luck isn't luck at all, but mathe-
matical percentage.
                    THE CASINO                  129

                         II
   The Casino Nacional during January and Feb-
ruary is the smartest place on the American continent,
and I am counting Florida as being on the American
continent at that.
   I say that, having known fairly intimately (too
intimately some of my creditors would say) Deau-
ville, Biarritz, Cannes, Monte Carlo, Touquet,
Vichy, et cetera.
   I say that, having also known Palm Beach. I will
concede anything about Palm Beach you like except
that it is as smart as it thinks it is. I will concede
that it is the most beautiful resort in the world. I
will concede that it has some of the finest homes in
the world. I will concede whatever you wish con-
cerning its hotels, privately believing the White Hall
to be the best. I know all about the Everglades, the
Jungle, the Country Club, and so forth. I realize
that the wealth of America meets itself there during
six snobbish weeks.
   But, bless you, smartness is one thing in the gory
lexicon of present-day society, and ostentation is
another. In Palm Beach you take a thousand-dollar
bill and pin it on your hat and say: "Look-ee here
what I got!"
   In Havana you take the same thousand-dollar bill,
130 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
smooth it out reflectively, and murmur: "Gee, look
what's left outa twenty grand!"

                         III

   During the evening one thousand diners sit down
in the Casino Nacional, which is exactly the number
accommodated by the Ambassadeurs at Deauville.
   Having plenty of money to spend the Havana
Casino naturally acquires the best dancing orchestra
obtainable from Broadway, and for the Cubans keeps
a special band playing alternate danzóns. The only
place in North America where the tango is properly
danced is in Havana. You may say: " W h o cares
for the tango?" Well, sir, begging your pardon,
jazz does become a bit gloomy after the fiftieth suc-
cessive one-step, all sounding the same.
   Also, the danzón,the tango and the waltz inter-
mingled judiciously with the one-step hits of Tin-
Pan Alley help out the chic foreign atmosphere
which has been growing on you from the moment
you first heard the click of the roulette balls in the
mysterious rooms beyond.
   Performers from New York or Europe—one pair
of ballroom performers, in accordance with the best
traditions, and not a "cabaret"—help out, too. But
mostly it's the hum of foreign languages, the dark
                     THE CASINO                         131
skins, the exotic band, the French-speaking waiters,
which create the atmosphere.
   The food is excellent, of course—Mario, maître-
d'hôtel extraordinaire, sees to that. The wines are
as fine as you could procure in France—probably
finer, for like Cuban cigars the French wines are
best in export. At least they are less expensive, for
there are no embarrassing taxes-de-luxe to cope with
here.
   A Frenchman knowing my failings warned me
against going to Havana. "The cooking there will
kill you, who are used to the best we have in France,"
he said.
   I have a sample menu from the Casino Nacional
which might surprise my friend the Frenchman.
Here it is, textually:

    Celeri en branche               Olives de Sevilla
      Radis Roses               Amandes Assorties
              Caviar de Sterlet sur Canapé
               Consommé Double Florida
                  Paillettes Hongroises
          Turbotin de l'Ocean au Champagne
                   Pommes Olivettes
         Médaillon de Ris de Veau Périgueux
              Neige Siberienne au Kumel
             Poitrine de Volaille au Beurre
             Haricots de Lima, fines herbes
                   Pommes Marquise
132 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
             Cœur de Palmier Haitienne
                   Bombe Selika
                   Mignardises
                      Moka
                    Champagne
                     Liqueurs

   The first, second and third chefs of the Casino, as
of the Sevilla and the Jockey Club, are French.
   A wise rule which preserves the dignity of the
Casino is the insistence on evening dress. During the
season this huge room with its cosmopolitan gather-
ing, its jeweled women and immaculate men, is an
impressive panorama of wealth out to amuse itself.
   Beautiful women of all grades of society seem to
drift to Havana as naturally as they do to Paris.
The Casino, the flowers, the luxurious tropical set-
ting, frames them as they love to be framed. Mrs.
Renée Lewis, when she was called upon to plan the
interior decoration of the Casino, had the good taste
to avoid anything approaching the garish. She was
given carte blanche and used it, and a combination of
her exquisite taste and knowledge and unstinted
funds have produced a Casino interior which stands
comparison for beauty and elegance with any in
Europe. The general note is gay, but sober velvet
portières tone down the effect to one of dignified
luxury.
                     THE CASINO                     133
   Such a setting framed the Princess Xenia one night
last season, and I remembered this lovely woman
as I had seen her in her habitual European back-
ground—first as a radiant bride of "Billy" Leeds in
the Russian church of the Rue Daru, later in a ball
given by Grande Duchesse Marie at the Cannes
Cercle Nautique, again at a Sunday night gathering
in the Ritz at Paris. . . . Older and more mature
in her American beauty, Duchesse de Torlonia sat at
a nearby table. . . . Mrs. Noble B . Judah, nee a
Patterson of Ohio, and the most beautiful woman in
the Diplomatic Corps, gave a party to twenty at a
long table near the center. ......
   Peggy Joyce, that amazingly beautiful woman
with more of her sex jealous of her than any woman
in the world, chose Havana as the spot to wear for
the first time the famous diamond worth $300,000,
the history of which begins with her. Did you know
that was why Peggy bought that diamond? Great
jewels are immortal, you know, and all had "his-
tories" except this oblong-shaped gem but recently
discovered and said to be the largest pure-water dia-
mond in the world. So Peggy bought it, and ten
thousand years from now the woman who wears it
will begin its story with, "It was first worn by a great
American beauty, Peggy Joyce, in Havana, Cuba."
Thus, at the expenditure of $300,000, Peggy
134 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
has assured herself a measure of immortal fame.
Wages indeed for the penalty of owning the
stone, for she must be followed by detectives
wherever she goes and because she possesses some-
thing every crook in the world would like to have,
she goes in daily fear of her life. Is the reward
worth the sleepless nights, the days of anxiety?
Peggy thinks so.
   Another woman whose passion is jewels, and espe-
cially diamonds, uses Havana as a frame for their
display—Mabel Boll. She flew to Havana with
Charles Levine, and dazzled the diners at the Casino
with such a display as they had never seen. Where
Peggy Joyce wore one stone of her collection (with
possibly better taste) the "Queen of Diamonds,"
whose aviation adventures had amused the world,
wore nearly four hundred diamonds of all sizes,
covering her arms, her breast, her ankles and her
hair. She explained that she was sorry to appear
with so few jewels, but they weighed so much that
Mr. Levine had made her leave half of them at
home. . . .
   Diamonds and pearls. Diamonds and pearls.
Diamonds and pearls and the monotonous click,
click, rattle and click of roulette balls dropping into
numbered sockets.
                     THE CASINO                    135

                          IV
   Some of the most beautiful women entertaining
in the Casino are Cuban. The Cuban is very nearly
the perfect hostess.
   Take Mrs. Conill or Mrs. Truffin—Havana's
social dictators.
   Julio Blanco Herrera, with the wife who seems
made of precious jewels. Pebito Echarte, always
host to many. Penino, the "marble king."
    Or Count Rivero, owner of the Diario de la
Marina, a distinguished gentleman.
    Cuba's French colony is often seen in this, to them,
familiar setting. Ernest Gaye, agent for the French
Line and one of Cuba's richest men, for instance.
Or the jovial and popular Marcel L a Bourdette, six
feet two inches tall and blond, with the lovely wife
who even recently was Marian Miller, daughter of
ex-Governor Nathan L . Miller of New York State.
    There are many Mexicans and Central Americans;
 a few South Americans and a sprinkling of Euro-
peans, with the English in the majority.
    The beautiful woman over there was the "Nun"
 in the Miracle—Lady Duff-Cooper, who was Diana
 Manners. She is dining with Mrs. Vincent Astor.
 The Duke and Duchess of Sutherland are at another
 table. Lord Rothermere, glum and soundless, is
136    WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
listening to epigrams uttered by his handsome and
monocled editor, Ward Price, of the London Daily
Mail. Madame Frances Spingold, once the most
expensive dressmaker in the world, has a table
nearby. Lord Northesk is dancing.
   The pale young man with the long face and longer
hair talking to Lady Duveen is Jascha Heifetz, most-
traveled of violinists, and in the group of Cuban
society near the orchestra is Rosa Ponselle. Ben-
jamin Gigli was here last week. The Cubans love
good music. Every year the Metropolitan Opera
House of New York has a season in Havana. Its
principal backer, Otto Kahn, is here tonight.
   And so it goes: diamonds and pearls, diamonds
and pearls . . . and always the click, click, rattle
and click from the rooms beyond.

                         v
   Nine games of chance are played in Havana
Casino Nacional. They are baccarat, chemin-de-jer,
roulette, hazard, craps, birdcage, electric poker,
bookmaker and wheel-of-chance.
   Baccarat is the biggest game. The bank is not
put up for auction as in Europe but is usually held
throughout the season by the concessionaire—a pro-
ceeding of doubtful value to the latter, who thus
cannot "burn his bank" if he strikes a losing streak.
                   THE CASINO                  137
   Baccarat is played by any number of players,
usually eighteen seated, against one banker. The
banker deals cards from a sabot to two tableaux, one
on each side of him. H e deals but one set of cards
to each tableaux, the players taking them in turn for
the others, and one set of cards to himself. Two
cards are dealt first, the dealer giving them first to
tableau one, second to tableau two, thirdly to him-
self, one at a time.
   The play is to hold cards totaling nearer to nine
than the banker. A l l tens count zero as do all face
cards and combinations of ten. Thus, 6 and 5 are
not eleven, but one. With such a hand the player
has the option of drawing a third card, which he will
not do if his hand exceeds five. According to
whether the players take the optional third card or
not and the amount staked on each tableau, the
banker knows whether to "draw" or "stand" himself.
If a player has 8 or 9 on the first two cards he shows
them face-up at once and all on his tableau win
unless the banker equals or betters. Equals are
standoffs. If the banker has 8 or 9 he wins from
both tableaux unless either of them equals or betters
before the draw.
   Bets are usually in chips of denominations of $25,
$50, $100, $500 and $1,000. General Bétancourt,
who held the bank during the 1927-28 season, had a
138 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
limit of $5,000 on a single bank, which is to say-
that if all the players bet the maximum he would
have to pay out $90,000 a deal if he lost to both
tableaux. This did not often happen.
   The percentage at baccarat mathematically speak-
ing is reckoned at about three percent, but this per-
centage varies according to the skill of the banker
and players. General Bétancourt is believed to have
had a losing season. The biggest players against him
were a player from New York named Letendre and
Mrs. Herman Rawitzer. Both are well known as
maximum players in the big games of the Continent.
   Chemin-de-fer, played usually only by players
who know it from Europe (baccarat and chemin-de-
fer are the only games allowed in French casinos),
is a variation of baccarat except that each player in
turn takes the bank, playing against all the others
as long as he wins. When the bank loses it passes.
A player can voluntarily "pass" the bank while still
winning, but he may not "drag" any amount of the
pot.
   Chips are the same as at baccarat and $50 is the
minimum bank allowed. "Punters" may bet as low
as $5. The percentage in favor of the bank is about
the same as at baccarat, but the house takes five per-
cent from every winning bank, thus destroying the
percentage and making the game wholly one of luck.
                    THE CASINO                    139
   Roulette is fairly well understood and can facilely
be comprehended by watching the game. There are
thirty-six numbers and two zeros. Eighteen num-
bers are red and eighteen black. One may bet on
any one number, or on two, three, four, eight or
twelve contiguous numbers; on the first, second and
third dozens; on the three individual columns; on
the red or black; on the first or second eighteens;
and on the odd and even. The last three are even-
money chances. The columns and dozens pay two-
for-one. Numbers en plein play thirty-five-for-one,
this ratio diminishing according to the number of
squares covered by one unit. Zero and double-zero
pay only those squares.
   The numbers are apparently haphazardly arranged
around a wheel so that numbers next each other on
the board are never next each other on the wheel.
The wheel turns slowly in one direction; the ivory
ball is sent spinning in the other. It spins for about
five seconds, then falls into a number. If it should
be number 1, for instance, black, first dozen, first
column, first eighteen and odd win, and also the
combinations zero-one, zero-one-two, one-two-three,
one-two-three-four-five-six, and one-four.
   The percentage at roulette in favor of the house
is figured as five and one-quarter, but this again
varies according to the player—a system player may
140 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
lose his money slower than a player who buckshots
the board. The limit is $25 on a number and $ 1,000
on an even chance.
    Hazard is a game which attracts big players. Like
roulette, there is a numbered board, but the chances
and combinations are fewer. The highest odds are
180 to 1, paid when three aces, three twos, and so on,
show up on the three dice. When this happens all
bets except on that particular chance lose. It con-
stitutes the house percentage, which is considered two
and seven-ninths. The main play at hazard is on
high or low. If the total of the three dice is ten or
under, low wins. If eleven or over, high wins.
Even money is paid on high or low. The dice are
placed by the dealer in the top of a cup-like con-
trivance and this is lifted when all bets are made.
The numbers to be bet on are from 4 to 17, each
carrying its own percentage.
   The limit at hazard is $500 on the even-money
chance, diminishing accordingly.
   The house-game of craps is according to the same
rules familiar to any doughboy or pullman porter,
except that betting on the "come"—the next throw
of the dice for a point—is not allowed. On the other
hand, there are more combinations to bet on. One
may bet with the player, on his point. One may bet
on the "field," which includes the numbers 2, 3, 4,
                    THE CASINO                   141
 9, 10, 11 and 12. One may bet on the 6 or 8 to
come before 7. One may bet on "craps," which
pays seven-f or-one. One may bet on 1 1 , which pays
fifteen-for-one. One may bet on 7, which pays four-
for-one. The field and the points pay even money.
The percentage against the point is the same as in
ordinary craps, the 2, 3 or 12 on the first roll, and
the 7. The numbers against the field are the 5, 6,
7 and 8. T h e mathematical percentage of house-
craps is only one and one-half percent, but in actual
practice this is considerably increased owing to the
varying bets on the board.
   Birdcage dice carries a percentage in favor of the
house of seven and one-half. Three huge dice are
tossed in a birdcage. Players bet on numbers 1 to
6. If the number they bet on is on one or more of
the dice when they have finished rolling they win.
If not, they lose. Even money is paid and, as at
craps, silver dollars are used. The minimum at all
games except baccarat and chemin-de-fer is one
dollar, with the sole exception of roulette wheels for
women only, when a minimum of twenty-five cents
is allowed.
   Electric poker was first installed in 1927-28, and
is an ingenious contrivance paying the house ten per-
cent. A number of push-buttons are grouped in an
area about the size of a soup-plate and for a dollar
142 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
one pushes five of them in succession. As each
button is pushed a card falls in an indicator-frame
resembling a bells-indicator. Odds are paid from
two pairs up and one pair entitles to another shot.
Thus, seven-to-one is paid on a straight. Such is the
ingenuity of the mechanism that after each button is
pushed its combination changes thus making it im-
possible for anyone to push twice the same series of
five with the same resulting hand.
    The percentages at wheel-of-chance and book-
maker's wheel have not been figured out very
closely. They are probably in the neighborhood of
eight percent. Bookmaker's wheel is another new
game in which a large rubber ball runs slowly around
a turning wheel with a number of spokes dividing
numbered chances from 1 to 10. Every other num-
ber is 1. The numbers to be played on are 1 (even
money), 2 (two-for-one), 5 (five-for-one), and 10
 (ten-for-one). The game is not exceptionally in-
teresting as no combinations are possible and it is
slower than other games.
   The "wheel-of-chance" is the familiar huge
wheel of county fairs and is not very popular.
    At all of these games a player can win if he is
lucky. But always remember that luck never lasts
and that you can't beat a percentage game for ever.
That average, seven and one-half, which is the
                    THE CASINO                  143
Casino's "rake-off" on all the games combined will
get your money in the end.
   To echo Manager Perry's advice: "Don't play
unless you are looking for miracles. You 'can't beat
that game.' "
   I did not take his advice, of course, and neither
will you.
                 CHAPTER XII
  JUST A LITTLE BOY RAISED FOR THE CHURCH

                         I

"THE noblest work of God," said Uncle Hezekiah,
"is a good woman.
   " A n ' after that," he added, "a square gambler."
   " A gambler," said Mark Twain, "is a person with
a contempt for money."
   "Sometimes a gambler gets closer to God than a
preacher," said Bat Masterson, remonstrating with
a cowboy who'd "got religion" and was threatening
to shoot anyone in a Denver gambling house who
didn't go to church.
   Those who knew Nevada in the old days will
recall a tall, gangling, frock-coated stud-dealer
called "Preacher" Caldwell. Caldwell ran a
gambling house in Elko on every day except
Sunday. On Sundays he turned the place into a
"meetin' house"—there being no church in town—
and led in prayer. H e was a good preacher, too,
was this week-day gambler, and rumor had it that
he had been ordained.
                         144
                JUST A LITTLE BOY                145
   A "square gambler"—and there is no other kind,
for a gambler who is crooked is no gambler at all—
nearly always has more than his share of the val-
uable human qualities of faith, hope and charity.
H e has faith in his friends and often in his God,
hope for his luck in the game as much as for the
hereafter, and charity for every man who can spin
a hard-luck tale.
   H e is a spendthrift because he has learned the
exact worth of money, which is: nothing. H e has
the easy-going philosophy of the prodigal because
that way to him lies happiness. H e would rather
spend money than make it because to him that's what
money is for.
   A man who is honest in his gambling is usually
honest in all things, even his sins. A man who will
not cheat at cards and makes cards his living will not
cheat in the larger issues of life.
   A gambler is always a sterling friend because he
would never put friendship in the scales. H e knows
nothing can be weighed against it.
   Neither does he lightly give his friendship, as he.
gives his purse. H e understands the psychology of
his fellow men and is a better judge of character than
a "bad" woman. The friendship of a gambler is
worth having because it means that you have been
judged by him and found "square." And "square-
146 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
ness" to a gambler means honesty, sentiment, un-
selfishness. What other men call "honor."

                         II

  Fred Perry is a "square gambler."

                         III
   Charleston, W . Va., 1889. A frame house of
some pretension, painted white. A God-fearing man
of gentle features paces anxiously the porch. Sud-
denly he halts; sweat breaks out on his forehead;
there is a faint—becoming lusty—cry from within.
A woman hurries out and beckons, speaking softly:
  "It's a boy."

   Nineteen-hundred. Another house but the same
gentle-faced man speaking to his small son.
   "Boy, you are to be raised for the Church, to
follow the vocation of your father. It may be that
when you are older you will not feel the Call. In
that case you will go your own way in life, remem-
bering the stock you spring from. You'll remember
that your grandfather was Colonel Flintlock Perry,
a hero of the war. You'll remember also that your
father was a gentleman, and that you must always
be a gentleman, in whatever paths your life may lead
you.
                 JUST A LITTLE BOY                   147
   " A gentleman, Fred, means honor, trustworthi-
ness, decency, charity. Never forget that."
   Fred Perry never has. H e never "felt the Call"
and never entered the Church, but if he failed in this
ambition of his father's the testimony is overwhelm-
ing that he has planned his life according to the
other.
   " H o w in the world," I said, "did you ever become
a gambler—raised in that atmosphere?"
   Perry was meditative.
   " W e l l , " he said, " I guess it just had to be, that's
all. I must have been a throw-back to old Flint-
lock Perry, who was some lad if all I can gather is
true. Gambling fascinated me the more because it
was so strictly condemned in my home.
   " W h y , my home was the strictest you can imagine.
M y mother wouldn't allow a card or a drop of
alcohol to cross the doorstep. One day she was fail-
ing and the doctor prescribed malt beer. She was
horrified. She said she would rather die than touch
a drop.
   " M y father regarded drinking and card-playing in
the same light as murder, adultery, or the other
deadly sins. That's why it happened, I guess. It's
an old story. Being forbidden certain things, I set
out to find out why they were forbidden, and found
I liked them."
148 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
   Perry hesitated a moment. Then he said:
   " I think if father had known these things him-
self his attitude towards them would have been dif-
ferent. Playing cards can't be a sin, because it isn't
dishonest in itself, it's just your skill against some-
one else's, your luck against his. A l l life's that, if
you really come down to it. The principles of life
are the same that a fellow goes up against at poker
or craps.
   "And Pve known men in the gambling business
who were just as honorable, to their way of looking
at it, as my father was in his own view. None of
the gamblers I played around with for years would
take money from a man if they knew he needed it.
Lots of times I've seen them give it back to a man
when they found out he'd a wife and kids at home."
   "Perry," I said, "when did you start to gamble?"
   The fair-headed, smooth-cheeked man thought a
moment.
   " W e l l , " he said, "it wasn't in the Epworth
League—though there was a kid there who—but we
needn't go into that. I think the first time I ever
saw a gambling game was when I was a page in the
State legislature. The pages used to shoot craps
behind the scenes.
   " I liked to be thought a 'good sport' in those days,
                JUST A LITTLE BOY                149
and I got to be a pretty good crap shooter. Then I
started playing pool—and father found out."
   "That was the beginning?" I said, gently.
   "Yes. There was a row, and I left home when
I was nineteen. Went to the Jamestown Fair with a
fellow. Carl—he was my pal—and I were both
pretty fair with a cue and we drifted from place to
place making our living in the pool-rooms. Then
we met a civil engineer who offered us a job over
in Joplin, Missouri. That was my first real trip
away from home. I'd never even been inside a
theater until then.
   "Over in Joplin, which was a pretty wild town,
there was an old man with a white beard named
Hanley. H e was a professional poker player. H e
saw the way I was drifting and tried to get me to
go home. But I wouldn't. I was willful—and
scared.
   " 'Well, boy, if you will be a gambler you'd better
be a good one,' old man Hanley told me. And he
taught me the tricks of the trade.
   "Hanley was the one who taught me to respect the
viewpoint of the other man. Always to look behind
the words of a man, and not go butting in with my
own half-baked ideas. He said the first thing a
gambler had to be was square, because if he wasn't
he'd be shot, sooner or later."
150 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
   Perry, first with one pal and then with another,
drifted around the Middle West and finally "made
a killing" which brought him East again. H e and a
gambler named Eddie Young became great friends.
Eddie was from his part of the country.
   " A good deal of what I know about human nature
I learned from the gaming tables," said Perry, "and
most of what I know about gambling I learned first
from Old Man Hanley and secondly from Eddie
Young."
   H e looked up from where we were sitting in the
Casino and, seeing a man passing, called to him.
   "Oh, Eddie!" he said. When the man, short,
stockish, with clear, quizzical eyes, came, he intro-
duced us.
   "Sit down, Eddie," he said. "Eddie, I want to
see you two meet. . . . This is Eddie Young of
West Virginia, my best pal and my right-hand man."
   Mr. Young and I shook hands.
   "Eddie," resumed Perry, "this gentleman wants
to write about gambling and gamblers. Do you
think we should let him, Eddie?"
   M r . Young was deliberate. "Wa-al, now," he
said, finally, "I don't know why he shouldn't.
Gambling's a business, just like any other. It's a
tolerable clean business, too, nowadays. As clean as
any I know of."
                JUST A LITTLE BOY                  151
   "Not only clean, Eddie," said his chief, "but it's
the only business in the world that's got to be clean.
If we tried tactics here that some businesses they
claim are 'honest' do we'd be out of business in a
week."
   Mr. Young nodded. "That's whatever," he said.
   " T o get back to the subject," I said, "what hap-
pened after you had become a full-fledged gambler?"
   "Oh—I don't know. Just drifted around. Ran
a place here and there. Worked awhile in New
York. Got to be quite a boy at golf."
   " G o l f ! " I said.
   "Yea, golf!" repeated Perry. "America's great-
est gambling game after poker—and Wall Street, of
course."
   " H e was an amateur champion golfer once," said
Mr. Young, with a grin.
   "Eddie here thinks it's funny," Perry explained.
"Gamblers didn't use to golf much in those days."
   After "driftin' around" Perry became manager of
the club at White Sulphur Springs, West Virginia.
There he made his reputation, and it was there that
Messrs. Bowman and Flynn found him and appealed
to him to come and run their casino.
   "It's a nice little show," said Perry, "and I've got
a fine bunch of boys working for me—starting with
Eddie here."
152 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
   "The boys would go to hell for him," said Eddie,
aside.
   I found that this was literally true. Perry has
collected dealers and croupiers from all the reputable
houses in the States,* men whose reputations he
knows. Many of them are gray-haired, veterans of
the old open days of California and the Territories.
Some worked for T e x Rickard in the old Concordia
Club; others were dealing faro in Tucson and
Phœnix when the Forty-eighth State, puffed up in
brand-new statehood, prohibited public gambling.
Men like Holladay, Billy Stewart, Barton, Barry,
Andy Ginter, Cap'n McKeen of Texas, Frank Jones.
   "See that little fellow there?" asked Perry, point-
ing to a small man whose manner of walking denoted
the horseman, and whose frank smile and courteous
ways I had noticed before. "That's one of America's
best amateur polo players, Herbert Wynn. He's not
a rich man, though, and you have to be rich to play
polo. So now he's one of my right-hand men." H e
called to M r . Wynn.
   "Herbert," he said, " I was just telling this gentle-
man about you. He's going to put us in a book. D o
you mind?"
   * I asked Perry how many "reputable" gambling houses there
were. "In the entire United States," he said, "there are not more
than five places worth a good gambler's time."
                JUST A LITTLE BOY                 153
   "If I was ashamed of my job I wouldn't be work-
ing here," said Mr. Wynn, easily. "This is as good
as any other job—as good as selling bonds, anyway."
   "And as hard," put in Mr. Young.
   "Is it really hard work?" I asked. I had always
heard gamblers referred to as "soft-fingered idlers."
   "So hard," said Perry, "that an hour at a time is
a long time for a dealer to deal without relief. Short
of stoking a battleship—and that shift's two hours—
I don't know anything so hard as that."
   " A dealer has to be wideawake every minute," ex-
plained Young. "It may look easy, but a good dealer
is so fast that it takes a lightning calculator to keep
up with him. And he can't make mistakes. If he
does, the house pays for them many times over.
Making mistakes at dealing is often worse than being
downright crooked."
   After watching some of the dealers awhile, seeing
how deftly they estimated the number of chips in
front of you without counting them, noting how they
made change and paid winning bets without an error,
I was inclined to agree with him.
   Young took me to a table and gave me a number
of chips.
   "Stack 'em up on the hazard table over there and
ask Joe how many you've got," he suggested.
154 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
   I did so. Joe glanced at the stacks with a casual
eye.
   "One hundred and sixteen dollars, sir," he said.
" W i l l you take cash?"
   Eddie smiled.       "Count 'em," he urged.      I
counted. One hundred and sixteen dollars!

                          IV
   A man walked into Perry's office in the Casino.
He wanted to cash a check for two thousand dollars.
His name meant nothing to Perry. H e offered his
card—with a small middle-western town as address.
   "Stranger," said Perry, " i f I walked into your
place of business at home and asked you to cash a
check for $2,000 when you didn't know me, would
you do it?"
   The stranger stammered, cleared his throat, finally
thought he would.
   " Y o u wouldn't," said Perry. "Here's what I'll
do. I'll gamble with you. Make this check for a
thousand and I'll take a chance."
   Another man walked into the office, in a towering
rage.
   "What's this hundred-dollar limit stuff?" he
sneered. "Say, this is a cheap joint!"
   Without a word Perry fished out a coin from his
vest pocket.
                JUST A LITTLE BOY                  155
   "So you want a gamble, do you?" he said. " W e l l ,
in the game you were playing, there's five percent
for the house. I'll tell you what I'll do. We'll toss
this coin and you can call it heads or tails. Or you
can toss one of your own coins. And make it any
limit you want. How much is it? Five—ten—fifty
thousand? I'm right here to accommodate—and no
percentage."
   The man grinned sheepishly and withdrew.
   Sitting with me over supper, Perry watched a
woman enter the gaming rooms. H e looked a little
disgusted.
   "Back again!" he said. "Wait a moment." H e
called an assistant. "Bill, that lady is not to play,"
he said. Then, to me: " W e have two of her checks
from last year. She can't afford to play. She only
has a small income and it goes in a night at the tables.
W e don't want that kind of money here."
   On another occasion, when a certain big gambler
from New York objected to a croupier's rapidity,
Perry took him into the private room and showed
him a roulette wheel, a hazard-board and other
games. "Name your limit," he said, "and I'll deal
for you myself—and no percentage. Anything you
like up to a million. Or, if you prefer, you can deal,
and I'll play."
156 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
   A famous humorist lay on his back in a hospital.
The appendicitis operation hadn't quite succeeded.
There had been complications.
   "Haven't been able to work for three months,
Fred," he said. "Tough on the wife."
   An hour later the wife returned and saw a slip of
paper on the bed. She read it, and blanched.
   "Fred Perry's been here!" said her husband.
   " I know," she said. " H e left this. W e got to
send it back."
   It was a check for ten thousand dollars.
      •      •    •     •    •     •

   I asked a man in business in Havana about Perry.
Never have I seen worship so absolutely flood a
man's face.
   "Listen," he said, "I'd go to hell for that guy,
see? You know when I started this place I didn't
have much capital and what with one thing and
another things didn't look too good. Sugar had
crashed and nobody was spending.
   "Then the wife took sick, and after that I had to
get sick too. A l l my savings looked like being swept
away. It certainly seemed my finish.
   "Then one night I met this man Perry. 'Hello,
George,' he said. He'd known me in New York—
not well, as a friend—only casually. 'Hello, Fred,'
says I. That was all. But he must have seen by my
                 JUST A LITTLE BOY                  157
manner that I was in a hole. Next day he comes to
my place and looks me straight in my face.
   "'George, you damn' fool,' he says, 'why didn't
you put me wise? How much do you need?' I
tried to protest. 'George,' he continues, 'I could
poke you a swift one, you're so dumb! How much
do you need?'
   " W e l l , the long and the short of it is that Fred
Perry pulled me out of a damn' tight hole. Y o u
couldn't say 'no' to him. 'Shucks,' he'd say, 'what
do you think it's good for, anyway?' That's how he
thinks of money. Something to help out his pals
with. And I wasn't even a real pal."


   A night club in New York. A bit of "fluff" is
"giving her line" to the "boy from the sticks," the
"free-handed spender."
   Fred Perry looked at her with a smile.
   "Sister," he said, "you tell me that you've got a
dying mother, a crippled sister, and a brother in jail,
not to speak of the younger brother you're puttin'
through school."
   "It's true, Fred," said the girl, her voice quaver-
ing professionally. "It's true, s'help me—"
   "Gosh, girl," said the tall man, "I'm not asking
you if it's true or not. You tell it—that's good
enough."
158 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
   The man who told me that story, one of New
York's best-known sporting writers, said that an hour
or two later they found the girl all alone in a corner,
weeping over a thousand-dollar bill. "C'n you beat
it?" said the sport-scribe. "She wanted to give it
back! Said he was too decent a guy to bilk."
      •           •     •    •      •    •      •
   I taxed Perry with these and other crimes and he
merely smiled, his blue eyes looking into mine
humorously.
   "Just put me down as a damn' fool and you'll
have said it," he said.
   It was like the man not to try to deny the tales.
A less honest man would have done so, or pre-
tended to.
   When it comes right down to it I don't know
of any man whose hand I'd rather shake, whom I'd
rather call friend, than "the Elk City Flash"—Fred
Perry, gambler.
                CHAPTER XIII
           NAUGHTY-NAUGHTY NIGHTS
                        I

HAVANA having a hot climate and being Spanish by
inclination and temperament, most of the life of the
town goes on after sundown. It is then that, in
summer, the people flood the beaches; it is then that,
in winter, they parade the streets, fill the bodegas
and cafés, and play their games.
   But of that particular species of "night life" for
which Havana was formerly noted there is little
enough. The "distrito de tolerancia"—"district of
tolerance"—was closed by an outraged government
several years ago. The argument was that such
open encouragement to immorality was having dis-
astrous effect on the birthrate.
   Those narrow streets in the San José dock area,
where carmined ladies were wont to tug at your coat-
tails as you passed by, with subtle whisperings of
delights within, are now given over to legitimate
trade, and vice is no longer rampant in the "Pearl
of the Antilles."
                        159
160 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
   There was this to be said for the old way, how-
ever. It was open and unashamed—and segregated.
Today places given over to the world's oldest busi-
ness exist in Havana—any public chauffeur has a
list of addresses—but they are not confined to any
one quarter and are spread out over the city.
Animas Street is infected with them. Being hidden,
they are also less subject to supervision and therefore
more reprehensible. Still, the Havana police force
make the best of a bad job.
   A word about the Havana police. They are worth
a mention, for they have made Havana the cleanest
city in the Americas and have reduced crime almost
to a minimum.
   They are a fine body of men—tall, lithe, athletic,
and so handsome that the Northern ladies go into
rhapsodies over them. The two words courtesy and
efficiency are their gospel.
   Their system of directing traffic is itself a poem.
Watching them, one is tempted to ask the name of
their dancing-master. Imperturbably smiling, they
stand at intersections and motion the cars to stop and
proceed with little graceful motions of wrist and
hand. It is as though they were doing it to music.
But traffic flows smoothly, and despite the numbers
of automobiles in Havana's downtown district there
is seldom any congestion, and what accidents occur
            NAUGHTY-NAUGHTY NIGHTS                 161
are usually the fault of speeding auto-busses in the
suburbs.
   These jitney-busses are a serious problem to
Havana. There are a score of companies all com-
peting with each other, most of them having Ford
or Chevrolet converted trucks. The conductors lean
from the front entrance calling to passers-by on the
sidewalk to come and be customers. "Enter, enter—
we go the fastest!" they cry, and should you be so
injudicious as to heed them they will make good
their boast. Speed-limits with them are made to be
broken, and often two competing busses will race
to where one solitary customer awaits the first of
them under a lamp-post. They are often in smashes
and quite often the nickel fare they charge is a
straight pass to the morgue.
   Havana police are twice as numerous for the size
of the town as is usual in an American city, and they
are drilled and trained as soldiers. They are in-
variably clad in spotless uniforms and one of their
cardinal rules is politeness. In winter a special force
wearing white helmets exists for the sole purpose
of directing tourists, these speaking English. They
are taught to consider themselves acting-hosts of
Havana and their mission is to make the tourist feel
at home.
   Should you have imbibed a little too injudiciously
162 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
 and have difficulty in navigating late at night it is
 quite likely that a friendly policeman will call a
 taxicab and himself conduct you to your hotel.
 There are even instances, they say, when they will
take you to your room and put you to bed.
    This being the case you have little to fear during
any explorations you may make in quest of Havana's
night life. You run much less risk of being told
to stand and deliver than in Chicago or New York.
    The night life itself, however, has little to recom-
mend it. Some of the cabarets are lively, and there
is plenty of opportunity to dance, but at this writing
there does not exist a dance-cafe with any pretension
to smartness.
    The Pirates' Club at Cojimar Beach, thirty
minutes in a taxicab from Havana, is a picturesque
cabaret installed in an alleged "pirate ship" moored
on the beach. One may dine, dance and sup and
there is a more or less cabaret. Bellamar Inn, near
the Casino and the Playa, is an interesting place deco-
rated in Moorish style, serving tea, dinner and
supper in a fairly refined setting. The orchestra
here customarily is good.
   Infierno is the awe-inspiring name of a gaudy
cabaret in the downtown region which advertises
"plenty of pretty Cuban and Spanish dancing-girls."
This place is usually filled with chulos—Cuban
            NAUGHTY-NAUGHTY NIGHTS              163
equivalent to the European gigolo. The Spanish
Tavern in the basement of the Regina Hotel is an
exquisitely decorated place featuring Spanish singers
and dancers and serving Spanish meals. It is rather
expensive.
   The largest of the cabarets is Montmartre, which
has an ambitious "revue" of American girls, and
where champagne is served à la Parisienne, This is
purely a tourist place and might be more amusing
if the "revues" were better. "Tokyo" is another
downtown cabaret.
   Two interesting road-houses, where one dines and
dances to orchestras under mango trees, but which
present no entertainment, are Cacolota and Geyer's
Garden Restaurant, both on the Central Highway
at Arroyo Arenas, about fifteen kilometers from
Havana. The drive out is beautiful.
   Hotel Bristol usually has an excellent little show
on its cool roof-garden. Villa Martin at Mariel,
"The Naples of Cuba," thirty-two miles from
Havana, is a restaurant featuring sea-food and
chicken dinners.
   La "Vista Alegre," on the Malecón, and " E l
Ariete," cater to the younger set of Cubans after the
theater. They are lively.
   The classic Cuban cabaret is La Verbena, which
has two orchestras and is open all night at Avenida
164 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
 Columbia, Marianao. It is a huge place, filled with
 señoritas alluring in face and figure who will dance
 with you at your nod. The proprietor is Emilio
 Salas, an old Cuban revolutionary who has, they will
 tell you with bated breath, killed two men. The
 manager is Billy Moran, a little New Yorker with
 experience in such cabarets throughout Europe and
 Central America.
    La Verbena is to Havana what Zelli's is to Paris
 or Texas Guinan's to New York. It is supposed to
be a very "tough" place and tourists go there rather
 fearfully, expecting to see the lights shot out at any
 minute. But nothing of the kind is likely to happen
and the only thrill guaranteed is that gained from
watching the extremely frank gyrations of the
dancers. There are two shows, one at midnight
which, as Billy Moran unblushingly admits, is "a
little off," and one at three in the morning, which
M r . Moran prefers to let you qualify yourself. One
is shown the rumba and the danzón of the Cubans, a
traditional "hoochee-koochee", and few of the girls
wear any clothes to speak of. This is the "naugh-
tiest" public show in Havana, although downtown
there is a theater which is not allowed to admit
women or children, so risque are its shows; while,
hidden here and there, are so-called "French"
motion-picture shows (manufactured in Germany as
LOOKING DOWN THE PRADO TO MORRO CASTLE
            NAUGHTY-NAUGHTY NIGHTS               165
a subtle propaganda against her ancient enemy)
which charge as much as $10 admittance.
   As an indication of what a "night out" in Havana
is likely to cost—apart from the Casino—here are
a few prices copied from La Verbena's price-list:
Champagne, $8 a quart; Burgundies, $6 a quart;
Rhine wines, $5 a quart; Spanish wines, $5 and $4
a quart; cocktails, .60; beer, .40; liqueurs, .50 and
.40; Cognac, .60. These prices are typical of the
cabarets.
   The average tourist will not want to spend more
than one or two nights studying the cabarets. They
are, practically without exception, second or third
grade.
                  CHAPTER XIV
      CHARACTER AND CHARACTERS IN CUBA

                          I

 N o country nor town is greater than its citizens and
by the personalities whose achievements have helped
 to build it shall the ultimate judgment of a town be
 drawn.
    Many histories, biographies, romances and guide-
books tell the romantic story of Cuba through the
 careers of its great men and this is no attempt to
overstep the line of the contemporary sketch into
their distinguished province.
    I f we here devote a chapter to a few—a very few,
limited by space and by acquaintance—of the Ameri-
cans and Cubans one may expect to meet in Havana,
it is because the most important matter for the visi-
tor, after his comfort, is the type of man he may
expect to meet and the kind of acquaintance he may
make.
    The persons mentioned hereafter are, most of
them, business men of the pioneer type. Among the
Americans are many who before coming to Cuba ad-
                         166
      CHARACTER AND CHARACTERS IN CUBA 167
ventured in other fields, on other frontiers—Texas,
Wyoming, Montana, Canada, Central America.
They live in Cuba because it suits them.
   Many whose names should rightfully be given
herein we have left out, either through ignorance
or because space forbade. W e apologize for this—
an inevitable fault in a summary of this kind, which is
neither a Who's Who nor a telephone directory.
W e have confined ourselves to those whom we our-
selves met—some casually, some by design—whose
personalities and careers seemed to justify their be-
ing better known to the visitor and future settler
whose seat they have been keeping warm.

                          II
   The outstanding American of Cuba is Frank
Steinhart.
   The career of this man has been so colorful, in
many respects so extraordinary, that it provides ma-
terial for an exciting volume. W e can only here
give its glossary, but one day a competent biographer
will do justice to a great American, no less a great
American for the fact that he was born in Germany.
   At one time Frank Steinhart had more influence in
Cuba than any man in the island, and this would not
be far wrong even today. H e is credited with being
the power behind the scenes who named govern-
168 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
ments, elected presidents, and above all was the high
intelligence which maintained for years the necessary
liaison between the United States and Cuba, both
political and commercial, in such wise that the rights
of neither country suffered in years of crisis that were
fraught with danger.
   Coming to Cuba as an enlisted soldier of the
United States Army, never rising above the rank of
a chief clerk, this remarkable man yet found the
confidence of generals, of the Secretary of War and
finally of the President himself, and that despite the
red tape which of necessity binds the ambitions of
the non-commissioned officer.
   Part of this he achieved by his integrity and ef-
ficiency, which made him the leaning-prop of the
American administration, and part by the tact and
intelligence which made of him a consummate
politician.
   Steinhart was born on May 12, 1864, in Munich,
of a middle-class German family. When he was
twelve years old he was taken to the United States.
Six years later he joined the Tenth U . S. Infantry
as a private ; immediately became a bugler, and barely
more than a year afterward was already a sergeant-
major with the title of chief clerk. In 1884 General
Bill Sherman made him his chief clerk in Chicago, a
post he held under Generals Sherman and Brooke,
      CHARACTER AND CHARACTERS IN CUBA           169
among others, until 1898, the year that was to mark
the turning-point of his career.
   With General Brooke he went to Chicamauga and
from there to Porto Rico, where he stayed only long
enough to be ordered to Cuba. H e participated in
the landing at Santiago and a few weeks later found
him in Havana.
   In December, 1898, he was made chief clerk to
the Military and Civil Administration. In this ca-
pacity he practically managed the military adminis-
tration under Generals Brooke and Wood. Many
times he was slated for a commission, but he stead-
fastly refused this promotion, rightly thinking his
position of chief clerk—in other words, general man-
ager—to the Administration held greater promise
for the future.
   This viewpoint was speedily justified. General
Wood publicly called him "my right-hand man."
Secretary Elihu Root, presiding over the W a r Office,
sent for the amazing sergeant, and, when he arrived
in Washington, informed him that he had been ap-
pointed assistant chief of the Insular Bureau. Some
time later, however, Secretary Root again sent for
him and spoke to him somewhat in this wise.
   "Steinhart—are you happy here?"
   " N o , sir."
   "Like your job?"
170 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
   " N o , sir."
   "Where would you rather be?"
   "Cuba, sir."
   "If you stay in your present responsible position
you will have great opportunities and may rise to be
a cabinet officer. How does that strike you?"
   "I'm not suited to a Washington job, sir. Rather
be in Cuba."
   " W e l l , " said Root, thoughtfully, "I'm not so sure
but that you're not right. We'll see."
   The Secretary of War "saw." A few days after-
ward Steinhart returned to Cuba as Special Agent for
the War Department. This position he held until
March 13, 1903, when he was a natural selection for
American Consul General.
   Steinhart was Consul General in Havana until
1907. H e had great faith in Cuba and invested
largely in its resources. Among other interests he
held a number of shares of the Havana Electric
Company, and in November, 1905, becoming im-
patient with the administration of this company,
wrote a letter to its board of directors suggesting
certain improvements.
   The board replied caustically and briefly. When
Mr. Steinhart, it said, held sufficient shares to vote
on the directing board, he could make suggestions—
not before.
      CHARACTER AND CHARACTERS IN CUBA           171
   This made Steinhart mad.
   " A l l right," he said, " I ' l l get the shares."
   He set about collecting proxies and a few months
later marched into a directors' meeting of the Havana
Electric with a voting majority of shares.
   The situation of the company was worse than he
had bargained for. It owed $800,000 and had prac-
tically no assets. When it wanted supplies it had to
pay cash for them in advance. The service was
poor, the rolling-stock antiquated and the employees
demoralized.
   Steinhart voted out the directors who had insulted
him and took control. His friends thought he had
gone mad.
   " W h y saddle yourself with a bankrupt concern?"
they demanded.
   "It won't be bankrupt long," said Steinhart
grimly.
   When he began to seek the loan necessary to pay
off the $800,000 debt he found that he had got
himself a real job. It was the year of panic—1907.
Money hadn't been so tight in the United States since
the Civil War.
   Steinhart went North. T o bankers in New York
he put his question. They laughed at him.
   " W h y , we may close our own doors next week,"
172 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
they said. " Y o u couldn't get a nickel out of Wall
Street, not if you had gold bars for security."
   "Somebody's got money," said Steinhart obsti-
nately. "It hasn't just vanished."
   H e set himself to find who this "somebody" was.
Eventually he found that the only organization in
the United States with ready money to invest was
the Catholic Church.
   Accordingly, he went to the Catholic Church.
And sold $800,000 worth of bonds to them.
   At the same time he went to some of his old
political friends in Washington. T o each of them he
made the same proposition.
   "Give me a thousand dollars. I'll make you
rich."
   They laughed at him but they gave him the money
because they liked him and believed in his ability.
   The stocks they bought at 9 and 10 in 1912 were
worth 140. Steinhart kept his promise. He bought
in outstanding stock at 140 and acquired the business
for himself.
   Now he is one of the principal owners of The
Havana Electric Company, with a healthy financial
position, but he owns besides interest in the Polar
Brewery, L a Alianza Insurance Co., and is vice-
president of L a Cubana Insurance Co.
      CHARACTER AND CHARACTERS IN CUBA             173
   H e has taken a large part in all Havana's social
activities. H e was president of the Jockey Club and
belongs to most of the other principal clubs. H e is
accounted the richest man in Cuba.
   H e has three children, Florence, Alice and Frank,
Jr. A l l of them have made successful marriages.
Frank Steinhart, Jr., is assistant treasurer of the Ha-
vana Electric Company and shows evidence of the
abilities which distinguish his father.
   The Steinhart home on the Prado, on the right-
hand side going from the Malecón to the Central
Plaza, is one of the show-places of Havana.

                          III
  And some of the other Americans you'll meet:
   Frank McNenny. Born in Ireland in 1845.
Came to Cuba in 1865. Father of nine children, one
of whom married Murray Hurlburt of New York
City. Has nineteen grandchildren; confesses to two
hundred pounds, and sports a white goatee. T o be
found daily at Ambos Mundos café.
  Joseph Springer, vice-consul since 1869. "Uncle
Joe" wears snow-white mustache, long goatee
and black campaign hat. Dean of the American
Club, native of Maine, and a Son of the American
Revolution.
174 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
   Charles Echeverria, United Fruit Company, one
of the courtly, kind men who are immensely popular
without seeming to be aware of it. American Club.
Cuba since 1884.
   W. M. Whitner. Real estate and insurance.
Came to Cuba in 1898, but has not yet acquired
any bad habits. Large family. Well-known writer
on economics. American Club.
   Frederick Snare. Founder, builder and life and
soul of the Country Club, with a passion for chang-
ing bunkers. Founder of Frederick Snare engineer-
ing corporation. Suave, courteous and erudite.
   C. C. Fitzgerald. An Oregonian who came to
Cuba in the 1898 army and liked it so well he stayed.
Was a major in the A.E.F., is head of the Cuban
Knights of Columbus, looks like General Miles with-
out a mustache, is much-loved, and may be found at
the American Club.
   Rev. Father Moynihan, Cuba's most popular
priest and primest teller of anecdotes. Plays golf
with Masons and Mohammedans and seems to like
it. Has been in Cuba twenty-seven years.
   Lawrence B. Ross. Handles popular automobiles
and is credited with having made more than a mil-
lion in doing it. Tall, wiry, energetic, prodigal;
gives $5,000 banquets at the Jockey Club and is
known as the David Harum of Cuba. New Yorker
      CHARACTER AND CHARACTERS IN CUBA 175
with Wyoming experience. Charming wife and
children.
   E. F. O'Brien. Knows more about Cuba than
Terry's Guide. In Who's W h o. Editor, Times
of Cuba. Portly, witty and clings to sarcasm.
Quotes Elbert Hubbard and says, "What's the big
i-dear?" Belongs to Masons, Shriners, Odd Fel-
lows, Elks, Moose and nearly everything except
Knights of Columbus, and is even a Circumnavigator.
Authority on tourist traffic, often at American Club,
and in leisure moments can be seen tracing ancestors
back to Mayflower.
   James Ellis. A Floridan who came to Cuba in '98.
Constructor. Heavy-set, dark and very dignified.
American Club and Sevilla-Biltmore, but mostly at
his much-loved home.
   Benhamin Projan. Enterprising Jewish lad from
New York on his way to becoming Cuba's biggest
merchant. Great favorite with the Irish. Athletic.
Champion chicken-eater of Cuba. Can be seen eat-
ing his lunch at Telégraf 0 Hotel.
   George V. Walsh, contractor. Down-East Yan-
kee, in Cuba since 1907. Good company; clean
ethics. Formerly of American Steel Co. and now
superintending bridge construction for the Central
Highway. Catch him lunching at Hotel Florida.
   J. Henry Steinhart. N o relation to Frank Stein-
176 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
hart. Deals in marble fittings. Socially much liked.
With wife one of Havana's best entertainers.
Prefers Hotel Inglaterra.
   Francis A. Kinsey. Camagüey mostly. Looks
like Abraham Lincoln. Tells droll stories in Hotel
Florida. Explored Colombian mountains. Cuba
since 1901.
   Walter H. Armsby. General manager of the
Cuban Dominican Sugar Co., and member Cuban
Sugar Defense Board. Yankee. When sixteen dis-
tinguished himself guarding (with sawed-off shot-
gun) Wells-Fargo bullion shipments out of Mexico
City. Cuba since 1902, since when has become bald.
Sevilla-Biltmore and Hotel Florida.
   George B. Harris. General Sugar. A good man
and popular and a dream in a dress-suit.
   Clarence C. Capdeville. Louisianan and known
as "highest-priced office-boy in Cuba," but reason ob-
scure. Much liked.
   Clyde M. Sheehan. Was captain in France.
Large capacity for life and everything else. Can
be seen—asleep—during siesta-time at American
Club. Scotch.
   S. S. Friedlein. Came to Cuba in 1898-99 when
American Army developed usual thirst for beer.
Represented Schlitz, but, America going "dry,"
transferred devotion to Johnnie Walker, which he
      CHARACTER AND CHARACTERS IN CUBA 1 7 7
helps to "go strong." Iron-gray hair and might be
a retired French cavalry officer. Won't drink rum.
   Joe King. Havana, Santiago and way-stations.
Short, fat, likable and blood-descendant of Ulysses
S. Grant. Chivalrous, charitable, may be rich if
sugar ever goes up.
   Frank Robins. President of company of that
name. Virginian and once an actor. Lives in roof-
garden atop his building, favors mint-juleps at
Sevilla-Biltmore, liked by the younger set, refuses
to grow old.
   Robert E. Hollingsworth. Colonel. Attorney.
Never in army but inevitably "colonel." Generally
to be found at American Club "rising to remark."
Says "suh."
   Alexander W. Kent, attorney specializing in di-
vorce. Touch of Irish. Keen mind and mostly
popular. T o be seen at L a Reguladora Café.
   Ralph W. Crain, typewriter agent. Twenty-five
years in Cuba. Always sober. Tall, dark, and often
spoken of by opposite sex. Spanish War veteran.
   J. Z. Horter. Machinery. Looks as if always
poised for flight. Great golfer but greater pessimist.
Country Club, anywhere on links.
   L. E. Brownson. Head of contracting firm of
Purdy and Henderson. A 'Ninety-eighter. Has
built most of Cuba's biggest buildings, is very
178 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
wealthy and is leader of American social set. Be-
longs to all the clubs. Has lovely home.
   Charles Train Beeching. American Steel. Fast
talker and popular oracle. Looks like John Drew
did, and radiates efficiency. Authority on Interior.
Not a bore. T o be found at Hotel Plaza at spare
times.
   F. W. Koop, of Cienfuegos. Was standing in
Inglaterra lobby when tremendous shock apprised
him that Maine had been blown up. Had then been
in Cuba six years. Inglaterra always.
   Wiley D. Stephenson, sugar exporter. Cuba in
1903. Sugar. Fine type of old Southern gentleman.
Knows Cuba like a book.
   James W. Egan, of Antilla, Oriente. "Jimmy" is
not the best-looking sandy-haired Irishman in Cuba
but he is one of the best. First man to enlist from
Cuba for World War and first American soldier
wounded in France while serving with American
unit. Hotel Florida and American Club.
   George B. Hayes. Attorney. Thirty-two years
ago was catcher for New York Giants. Deliberate.
Impressive.
   William Anderson. Cuba in '98 as private.
American Clubber. Serious, refined.      Contractor
now and a good one.
   Robert S. Torrance. Civil engineer. American
      CHARACTER AND CHARACTERS IN CUBA 179
Club. Takes the world and himself seriously.
Former American Legion Post commander. Cuba
1899.
   George T. Street. Insurance. Captain in France.
Ohioan. Only man in Cuba who can make a speech
on a glass of buttermilk, and speech is likely to be:
"Yes, by G        , by the time this Administration gets
through fiddling there won't be any Cuba left, by
G       , to fiddle with. I've been here twenty years
and I know this country!" A l l clubs.
   Charles Berkowitz. Storekeeper. A 'Ninety-
eighter. Strives to have Cuba use clean paper-
money, but so far vainly.
   Nathan I. Heller. Also Jewish. Fine chap and
great story-teller. Known as "Fat." Sells tires and
talks like a Cuban.
   Walter M. Daniel. Head of company of that
name. Cuba in 1899 after sundry enterprises in
Central America. Six feet, 220 pounds. Looks
somewhat like Chief Justice Taft but cannot chuckle
like Taft.
   T. C. Ulbricht. Fine type of Rotarian. Immacu-
late. Purrs. Popular at American Club.
   Charles Thrall. Connecticut. Cuba in 1890, and
assisted Karl Decker in contriving escape of Evan-
gelina Cisneros in 1897. President of Sugar Club.
Was held by Cubans as prisoner of war in Cabañas
180 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
fortress. Small but big-hearted. Charter member
of American Club. Dinner at Telégrafo. Lunch
at Florida.
   Thomas R. Towns of Holguin. Wealthy farmer
in Oriente province. Amateur pantomime actor.
Six feet tall and could be picked anywhere as a
tropical resident. Hasn't had a drink in fifteen
years. Good neighbor.
   Hugo Hartenstein. Slight, energetic, efficient and
popular. Cuba in 1899. Saw the only snowstorm in
Cuba, in Pinar del Río mountains in 1900. Presi-
dent of American Chamber of Commerce. Electric
engineer. A good citizen.
   Frank L. Getman. Once a state road commis-
sioner in New York. Slender, wistful, big-hearted,
generous. Sells automobiles. President of Cuban
Importing Company. Likes bright ties. Gives
great parties at Hotel Pasaje.
   George H. Moore, general manager of Thrall
Electric Co. Fought in Honduras and Cuba. Big,
burly, popular, lodge-member. Does a lot of quiet
charity. American Club always.
   R. B. Van Home. Son of Sir William, who built
Cuban Railroad. Weighs about 275 pounds and was
once an artist on Life and a clever one. Loves
Havana. Sevilla-Biltmore.
   George Bush. Cuban American Sugar. English,
      CHARACTER AND CHARACTERS IN CUBA            181
but graduated from Princeton as well as Cambridge.
Usually to be found discussing an eccentric prefer-
ence for orange gin with Belchazzar Seco, the Amer-
ican Club's gifted bartender. Very popular.
   Ronald D. Stephenson. An American mission-
ary's son with the best command of Spanish in the
Diplomatic Service. An out-of-door man often to
be found on the beach at Jibacoa playing with the
sharks.
   Henry W. Catlin. The Warwick of Cuba. Presi-
dent Machado's warmest American friend. A Vir-
ginian with a lifetime's experience in the Tropics.
Sixty-four years old, vice-president of the Electric
Bond & Share Co. T o see him with a lady you'd
never guess his age.
   Cushman A. Rice. Son of ex-Governor A . E. Rice
of Minnesota. Better known as "Cush" Rice to
friends in Central America, Mexico, Paris, Berlin,
Moscow, China and elsewhere. Left college in 1896
and almost immediately thereafter appeared as briga-
dier-general in Guatemalan Army, but when he re-
turned to America for Spanish-American war service
they only made him a captain—of the Thirty-Fourth
U . S. Volunteer Infantry. Had a good record in the
Philippines, especially because he bought, owned and
operated the first automobile ever seen in the Islands.
Since then has been mixed up in various Central
182 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
American revolutions, it being said that whenever the
munitions business was a little low "Cush" Rice would
disappear from New York and soon thereafter the
President of some small republic would lose his job.
For some years now has "settled down" to leisurely
tours of the world. Has cattle ranches in Cuba,
homes in Paris and Shanghai and New York, and
$6,000,000. Is also a Major of Aviation, U . S. R.,
and was one of America's first pilots.
   Frank Morgan. O f the firm of Morgan and M c -
Avoy, printers of periodicals. Originally and still
from Texas. Frequently the "life of the party."
Can ride steers.
   Roy W. Chapman of West Texas. A l l his life in
the saddle. The best horseman in Cuba. With two
friends gives an annual Rodeo when 2,000 people are
entertained at his ranch. Has five children. Once
licked the famous rough-and-tumble fighter M a y -
field Damon in Camaguey in 1914.
   Samuel W. Hamilton Jones. Canadian, late of
Princess Pats, with an entire war's service on Western
front and Gallipoli. Son of a minister. Tells
French-Canadian dialect stories. What men call
"regular."
   Walter Luther. Luther-Quinlan Automobile
Company. A Dutchman from Maryland, where he
met his lovely Irish wife. For 12 years a scout for
      CHARACTER AND CHARACTERS IN CUBA 183
General Motors in Europe and South America. A
solid, conservative man of affairs with an itch in his
foot.
   Francis Quinlan, his partner. Also a General
Motors man. Sometimes plays poker at American
Club. Clever at business. Takes his "Cuba Libre" *
only occasionally.
   Cæsar Diaz. Cigar and cigarette man, very
wealthy. Married a Miss Sharon of San Francisco.
Popular and polished and with his wife a great enter-
tainer at Jockey Club.
   A . E. Stuntz. Better known as Eddie. Tall,
auburn and writes better than Mencken, but will not
believe it. Will be less idealistic later on. A young
Cornell man who will one day be famous. His
father is a Cuban pioneer.
   Dean Sanborn. Editor of the Havana Post, clever
sport writer and an authority on racing. An able
man.
   Gerald Brandon. Column-writer on Havana Post.
Born in Panama. Once wrestling champion of Mex-
ico. Knows globe. Found Pancho Villa. Brilliant
writer. Once spent four years in Foreign Legion.
  * Cuba Libre: a highball contrived of coca-cola and bacardi rum.
                 CHAPTER XV
  CHARACTER AND CHARACTERS: 2. THE CUBANS

                         I

T H E Cuban home, like the French home, is well-
nigh impregnable, unfortunately, to the average
tourist. It is regrettable that a wealthy and well-
meaning traveler may come to Havana, stay a month,
and return without ever having seen a Cuban in-
térieur or met with any Cubans excepting those
whom he is obliged to meet in the ordinary course
of business. It is doubly unfortunate because the
traveler thus returns from Cuba having no real in-
sight into the character and customs of the Cuban
people, especially the Cuban gentlefolk, and is
tempted to generalize on the Cubans—waiters, shoe-
blacks, taxicab-drivers and what-not—whom he has
met.
   The principal barrier is the barrier of language.
In addition Cuban home-life is more or less sacred.
No Cuban would think of telephoning to his wife,
half an hour before dinner, "Put on an extra plate,
I'm bringing a friend home." Without actually
                        184
                    THE CUBANS                     185
 sequestering his wife and daughters, he keeps them
 rigorously apart from his everyday business life.
 To be invited to a Cuban home you must be indeed
 a tried and true friend. A foreigner may know a
 Cuban gentleman intimately for years and yet never
 catch sight of his wife and family except at a
 distance.
    There are a few notable exceptions to these rules,
chiefly members of the Country Club and others who
have lived long years in the United States or Eng-
land. The Havana-Biltmore Yacht and Country
Club, in its palatial quarters just opened at Biltmore,
is making a genuine effort to effect a desired "mix-
ture" of the nationalities. The Commodore is
Cuban, but the board of directors include an Ameri-
can, an Englishman and a Spaniard.
    The board of directors of the Yacht and Country
Club includes John M c E . Bowman, President; José
Emilio Obregón, Cuban representative of the Na-
tional City Bank of New York, Commodore; Fer-
nando G. Mendoza, Secretary; Nestor G. Mendoza,
Vice-Secretary; Miguel A. Suárez, Treasurer;
Charles F. Flynn, Henry Catlin, H . C. Stapleton,
Jose Gomez Mena, Alberto G. Mendoza, Juan R.
Arellano and Guillermo F. de Zaldo Jr., Directors.
   The new club, which is really the nucleus of the
Cuban Monte Carlo without being a part of it, will
186 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
be the most exclusive on the Island of Cuba. It has
palatial quarters at Jaimanitas.
   In the few pages to follow an effort has been made
to group a few representative Cubans as ones whom
the American traveler in Cuba is likely to meet
socially. The author acknowledges that this in no
wise constitutes a list of Cuban society, this function
being excellently performed by the Cuban Blue
Book, published annually.
   The manner of selecting the names to follow was
this: The author himself spent a certain time in
Cuba, and combined his own experience and ac-
quaintance of Cubans with those of a number of
friends who likewise spent a limited time in the
Island. It was curious to see how little the lists
varied.
                          II
   Gerardo Machado. President of Cuba. Native
of Santa Clara province. Often referred to as "the
Roosevelt of Cuba." Dominates an unfortunate
political situation with tact and energy and has a
program providing for determined extension of
public works combined with sensible cooperation with
American finance. A veteran of the Cuban War of
Liberation, 1895-98, Machado rose from being a
humble country lawyer to be a brigadier-general.
                   THE CUBANS                   187

He is a consummate politician and dominates a very
comprehensive political machine. Is generally popu-
lar and his term of office is likely to extend until
1935.
   Dr. Luis Machado. Young Cuban attorney. A l -
though a Cuban, young Machado is reckoned the
best speaker in English in Cuba. Dynamic. Has
a big future.
    Carlos Miguel de Céspedes. Hereinbefore dealt
with. Cuban minister of public works. The most
energetic man in Cuba. Is responsible for most of
the beautification projects in Havana and for the
Central Highway. By many considered a certain
President of Cuba.
    Rafael Itturalde. Only pro-Spaniard of revolu-
tionary period who has held office in Free Cuba.
Efficient and a born executive, but not popular.
    Mario Menocal. Ex-President of Cuba. Lives
with beautiful wife and family at Santa Marta sugar
mill in Camaguey province.
    The Palma Boys. These three irrepressible young
men are much loved of the Cubans, especially the
younger generation. As sons of the lamented First
 President of Cuba they have the freedom of the
 Island. They speak English as Americans, are in-
ternationally educated, and are altogether charming.
 The men the American traveler is most likely to meet
188 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
 of all Cubans. Joe Estrada Palma, the eldest of the
 "boys" (he has a grown daughter and his youth is
chiefly noticeable in his soul), has a cattle ranch near
Bayamo, in Oriente province, where he lives in his
hacienda as a Cuban country gentleman. His trips
to Havana, though, are frequent, and he will
be found in the Sevilla-Biltmore Hotel. Ralph
 (Rafael) Estrada Palma, another much-loved enfant
terrible when he is in Havana, lives in New York,
but often goes South. Generally in the Sevilla
lobby, talking to a beautiful girl, or (later) in the
Vista Allegre Cafe. Carlos Estrada Palma, the
quietest of the trio. A fine, courtly specimen of the
young Cuban type. Also the Sevilla—although all
three brothers on occasion may be found in the small
and singularly ill-equipped bar back of the Paris
restaurant, which Alfred Petit intended for a serv-
ing-bar but which has been preempted by the young
Cuban, perhaps because it is not open, like the other
bars, to the street.
   Martinez Ybor, a Tampa-born Cuban with a re-
markable gift for spread-eagle oratory. A devoted
admirer of the late Theodore Roosevelt. Was a
friend of General Leonard Wood.
   Julio Blanco Herrera. Owns the Tropical Brew-
ery, in the gardens of which tourists may drink as
much as they wish for nothing. Owns a house in
                   THE CUBANS                  189

Country Club park which looks, so one man re-
marked, "a cross between late North German Lloyd
and early Pullman." Rich and a sportsman.
   Fiol Caballero, of Cienfuegos. Ford agent, but
newspaper editor and owner also. Small, ener-
getic, and a good speaker in English. Ardent
automobilist.
   Dr. Antonio Sanchez de Bustamente. Inter-
national lawyer. Was a President of the League of
Nations.
   Colonel Eliseo Cartaya. President of Cuban
Portland Cement Company "El Morro," with huge
works at Mariel. Daughter married " C a p " Til-
linghast L'Hommedieu Houston of the New York
Yankees. Popular with Americans.
   George Reno. Cuban Department of Agriculture,
born an American and a nephew of Robert G. Inger-
soll. Once a famous actor on Broadway. Now one
of Cuba's most useful citizens. Has a marvelous
farm with equally marvelous caves not far from
Havana.
   Dr. Pedro Pablo Kohly. President of the Society
of Economic Federations. Descendant of a German
general captured by Napoleon. General, escaping
from Napoleon, reached Cuba and founded a family.
   Alfredo Zayas, President of Cuba 1921-25. Suf-
fered frightfully as prisoner of war of the Spaniards
190 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
on North Coast of Africa. One of Cuba's greatest
men. Has written a book on prison experience to
be published after his death.
   Massaguer, Conrado W. Probably the best-
known Cuban, internationally speaking. Is consid-
ered one of the three greatest caricaturists in the
world. Owns several magazines in Havana, includ-
ing Carteles and Social. Always to the forefront in
Cuban-American questions. Leader of Cuban intel-
lectual "Minorite." A brilliant man and very popu-
lar with Americans. Talks American like a native.
   Massaguer, Joe. Sporting editor of El Mundo
and almost as popular as his brother. An inter-
national authority on sport, especially horse-racing.
   Mendoza, Dr. Claudio G. de. Head of the
famous Mendoza family, which very nearly runs
Havana. Banker, statesman, economist, capitalist,
farmer. Has six sons, five of them married: Fer-
nando, Mario, Nestor, Luis, Alberto and Raul, each
of whom have distinguished themselves in some
specialized branch of activity. They are the richest
family in Havana and have vast holdings in real
estate. Several of the families live together in the
picturesque Villa Rosa at Marianao, which has its
 own church and school. There are so many grand-
 children that sometimes they arrive at the bathing-
                   THE CUBANS                   191

beach in a private omnibus. T o the civic pride and
energy of the Mendoza family is due in great meas-
ure the latterly considerable progress of Havana
city. In all there are nearly a hundred Mendozas
in Havana, about twenty of whom are leaders in
their respective professions. Nicolas Mendoza is
the developer of Reparto Miramar.
   Carlos Alzugaray. Lawyer. Organizer, espe-
cially of political parties. Likes to damn the United
States, but doesn't mean it, and is personally liked
by Americans.
   N. Gelats. Banker. Opinion often sought by
Americans but seldom given. Once said there were
92,000,000 hoarded dollars in Havana. Banking
expert.
   Enrique Fontanills. Society editor of Cuba's old-
est daily, El Diario de la Marina. Higher paid than
Cholly Knickerbocker. Is a social arbiter of Cuban
set and one of the most flowery writers in the Spanish
language. Comes from Catalan.
   J. M. Barraque, Secretary of Justice. Distin-
 guished jurist and scholar. An authority on the
 Code Napoleon. Loves Paris.
   Rogerio Zayas Bazan of Camagüey. Formerly
interior minister. Known to man in the street as
"Zayas Ba-Ta-Clan" because once he closed a Paris
192 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
Ba-Ta-Clan show in Havana owing to the scanty
clothing of the ladies. His greatest achievement the
closing of the Vice District.
   Jose Almeida. Oriente province. Former cow-
boy. Became multimillionaire during "dance of the
millions," but it didn't last. Loved a "high old
time" in those days, but subdued now. A great char-
acter and an honest one.
   Dr. Arturo Aballi. Famous baby specialist and
obstetrician. One of world's greatest. Friend of
William Gorgas, who drove yellow fever from Cuba.
Author of many textbooks used internationally
   Dr. G. E. Agramonte, the doctor to whom most
Americans go when they get ill. Formerly special-
ized in New York. A good fellow too.
   Captain Eduardo Laborde, Cuban army. Fine
aviator, horseman, gentleman. French ancestry.
Speaks perfect English.
   Manuel de la Guardia. Handsome, humorous
and the best-dressed man in Cuba.
                 CHAPTER XVI
     "SMOKE?" HOW GOOD CIGARS ARE MADE

                          I
KIPLING notwithstanding, there are left some women
in the world who reduce the best cigar to the level
of a mere smoke. But after a woman, is there any-
thing so absolutely satisfying to the male appetite as
a good cigar?
   This being the case it is surprising that there are
only four parts of the world where good cigars are
made. One is Cuba. One is Florida. One is Porto
Rico. One is the Philippine Islands. And Connecti-
cut is the only other cigar-producing country which
can even faintly reproduce, to the connoisseur, the
appearance and aroma of a Havana cigar.
   Of the four great producers—we exclude Mexico
owing to the fragility of the delicate leaf which, like
the mango, will not stand another climate—Cuba, of
course, is in the lead, although Cuba does not pro-
duce more than one percent of the world's cigar
supply.
   The main reasons for this Cuban supremacy in
quality despite inferiority in quantity is that the
                         193
194 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
Cubans were first in the field—the tobacco plant like
the vine requires decades of development—and have
therefore had a longer time to cultivate that valuable
ingredient tradition; the Cuban growers and manu-
facturers have centuries of experience behind their
product; they still have more or less of a trade con-
science in an epoch when this is a rare commodity;
they have a world-wide reputation to live up to;
being the center of the high-class tobacco trade Cuba
draws the most skillful graders and workmen; finally
there is, apparently, something in the hot, moist
climate of Cuba which cannot be duplicated any-
where else. In fact, in only portions of Cuba can
the "divine weed" be grown with success, and climate
is as much a necessity for the process of manufacture
as it is for the cultivation itself.
   This goes for the smoking, too. Cubans say that
a box of good cigars will spoil in twenty-four hours
in New York if left open. The Cuban who makes
the cigars should be a judge, but the Englishman
does not think so. The English believe that a cigar
should be ripe (i.e., dry) before smoked. They call
this process "mellowing." The Cuban says that the
mellowing should be before manufacture and that
the cigar when smoked should be green (i.e., new).
   The so-called "civilized" palate demands the light
cigar—the claro or the Colorado claro—and these are
    "SMOKE?"     HOW GOOD CIGARS ARE MADE 195
almost the only cigars exported. The Cuban, on the
other hand, wants his smoke black, loose-rolled and
moist—Colorado, Colorado maduro, or maduro. The
latter is almost black. It is not necessarily stronger
than the light-colored cigars, but it has a decidedly
fuller flavor. The claro and Colorado claro tobaccos
are artificially produced—are grown under cheese-
cloth, acres of which stretch across the great weed-
growing district between Havana and Pinar del Rio.

                          II

   Choosing a cigar demands nearly as much knowl-
edge as choosing a wine. As with wine, the only
certain test is to taste—light—it. There are rela-
tively few sure rules to judge by.
   High-class wrappers being expensive, they are
naturally only used on higher grade cigars. That is
to say, where a high-grade wrapper is used, the filler
is of good quality and carefully rolled. It is wise
therefore to select a cigar with a good wrapper.
   A good wrapper may be of any color, but the
weave of the leaf is finer and there is a subtle silken
touch discernible to sensitive finger-tips. It should
not be spotty or uneven. It is usually finished off
with exceptional care and the joints are not rough-
ened. The cigar should be smooth from one tip to
the other.
196 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
   In selecting a cigar one should pass it from tip to
tip between thumb and forefinger, squeezing gently.
The cigar should have the same resistance through-
out. It should not be too solid. Neither should it be
firmer anywhere than elsewhere. Soft spots mean
unequal rolling, and unequal rolling means uneven
smoking and a disappointing smoke.
   The color of the wrapper does not indicate the
strength of the cigar. Light-colored tobacco can be
just as strong as dark, and vice-versa. However,
most light-flavored cigars made for the American
and European trade are light-colored, either claro
or Colorado claro.
   The strength of a cigar cannot be told except by
an expert from the cigar's appearance, and the
fresher a cigar is the stronger it is. The strongest
cigar in the world is probably the Cuban brevas,
made by Villar y Villar, or else La Flor de Cuba,
made by M . Valle y Cia. Six-tenths of cigars made
for export are light in color and flavor; therefore in
buying a cigar in Havana it is wiser, if you prefer
a mild smoke, to buy a brand popular in the United
States.
   The skill required of the cigarmaker varies ac-
cording to the size and shape of the cigar made.
The shape demanding the cleverest workmanship is
the long, fat torpedo shape, sealed at either end.
    "SMOKE?"      HOW GOOD CIGARS ARE MADE 197
As examples, the cesares of Cabanas, the excep-
tionales of Villar y Villar, the sobresalientes of
Corona, the cesares of Murias y Cia, the Albas of
Villar y Villar, the bloated perfectofinoof Bock y
Cia and the admiral of Henry Clay.
   Another shape demanding excessive skill in the
making is the long, straight cigar such as the coro-
nation de luxe of Romeo y Julietta, or the fine
straight smoke made by the Upmann and Ramon
Allones firms.
   Very large cigars and the shapes mentioned above
are usually made of finer leaf than the small shapes,
because the experts who make them are too valuable
to be wasted on cheap cigars. This is why the size
and price of a cigar is an indication of quality.
   Generally speaking, in choosing a cigar, it is wise
to follow the following rules:
   1. See that the box is freshly opened, and that it bears
the green label which is the trade mark of all Havana
cigars.
   2. Examine the cigar you take to see that its wrapper
has not been cracked by the nail of some other purchaser.
   3. Gently squeeze the cigar throughout its length to be
certain there are no air-pockets which will make the smoke
uneven or hot. These air-pockets, caused by faulty roll-
ing, occur at times in the most expensive cigars.
   4 . I f the shape you like is straight, examine the end
198 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
to be lighted. The interior of the cigar should be evenly
but not tightly rolled.
    5. I f you choose a perfecto or a larger torpedo-shape,
feel gently the end to be lighted and make sure that it is
firm everywhere. Otherwise the fire from your match
may run down through an air-hole and reappear at the
side, in which case an expensive cigar is spoiled.
    6. For the Cuban taste a cigar should be a little moist
and pliable. For the English taste, which the Cuban can-
not understand, it should be so dry that a light crackling
is heard when rolled between thumb and forefinger close
to the ear. (Although the Cubans decry the English taste
in dry cigars they admit that the best cigars they make
are shipped to London.)
    7. The band has nothing to do with the cigar. Quite
often the best cigars—the exceptionales made by Villar, for
example—do not have bands. In others the band is a
modest affair plainly printed.
    8. Similarly the size and finish of the box need not
necessarily mean that the cigars within are good. Some
very ordinary smokes are put up for certain trades in rich
mahogany boxes, whereas the very finest cigars, without
 exception, are always packed in first-grade cedar.
     9. I f the cigar is dry, use a clipper. I f little twigs
 come off in the mouth the cigar is bad. I f the cigar is
 moist, push in the end of a wooden match or simply
squeeze gently until the wrapper cracks at the end.
     10. T o light a cigar evenly the match should be well
 aflame and held an inch from the tip. The smoker should
 pull slowly but evenly on the flame, seeing that it covers
the entire tip. Jerky puffs will mean a badly-lit cigar. If
     "SMOKE?"      HOW GOOD CIGARS ARE MADE 199
a cigar burns unevenly due to bad lighting, pull very gently
on it for a moment or two and it will even up.
   11. Never light a good cigar with anything but a
wooden match—above all, never a gasoline lighter, the
fumes of which destroy the fine aroma.
   12. Remember that a cigar should be kept alight, for
a cigar relit is never good.
   13. Close the box promptly after choosing.

                            III
   Cigars were smoked in Cuba by the natives before
Columbus arrived and the first smokes carried back
to Europe were by members of his expedition.
Some say that the weed came to America from Asia,
but of that there is no proof.
   Cigar-smoking has been popular only about a cen-
tury, and common less than fifty years. It is now,
however, one of the world's dominant trades. There
are eight thousand cigar factories in the United States
alone—reason for the high protective tariff.
   Against this tremendous competition Havana
cigars have more than held their own, the connois-
seur the world over choosing no other kind. The
reasons for the superiority of the Havana cigar are
the same factors which influence the excellence of
wine. The most important are the soil and the
climate. Secondly, the growers must be expert, as
the art of cutting is to know how old a plant must be
200 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
to ensure the leaf being at its best. Thirdly, the
process of fermentation and curing demands the skill
and practice of years of experiment. Fourthly, the
Cuban knows best how to store the tobacco once it
is cured, and manufacture it once it is ripe.
   One concern, nicknamed the "Trust," manufac-
tures sixty million cigars a year. One cigarmaker
will make an average of one hundred cigars a day,
for which he is paid from three to six cents a cigar.
Some cigars take much longer to make, especially
those huge ones made for kings, millionaires and
others who can afford them.
   The Kohinoor, which Pedro Murias y Cia make
for M r . John Pierpont Morgan, is six inches long
and is packed in individual cedar boxes. It takes an
expert cigarmaker twenty minutes to make and re-
tails at $1.50.
   Every cigarmaker has a cigar like the Kohinoor,
pride of his factory. Quite often they are only
distinguished by their size; many smaller makes
have better flavor. But only the finest leaf is used
in the production of these super-cigars—leaf from
the Vuelta Abajo region in the province of Pinar
del Rio.
   One well-known American millionaire has a stand-
ing order with the Romeo y Julietta firm for a cer-
tain kind of cigar and for twenty years one old cigar-
    "SMOKE?"     HOW GOOD CIGARS ARE MADE 201
maker has been employed exclusively on this order.
The millionaire is said to be such a connoisseur of
tobacco that once when the special maker was absent,
ill, and a substitute took his place, he was able to
pick out the cigars made by the substitute without
smoking them.
    There are one or two old cigarmakers in Havana
who work only for a limited list of clients. One of
these told me that he works alone, with no assistant
except his wife. He personally buys his leaf from
the growers and cures it in a way known to him only.
He will not make more than twenty cigars a day.
H e charges an exorbitant price but for many years
now has refused to increase his list of clients. H e
says to do so would mean increased output and con-
sequently diminished quality. He spends forty to
fifty minutes sometimes on a single cigar. One of
the personages he supplies is the King of Spain.
   But there are fewer of these old limited-output
makers now than formerly. They die and cannot,
in this materialistic age, be replaced. Their knowl-
edge usually is buried with them.
   Most Havana cigars—in fact all that are on the
open market—are made by one or other of the
numerous factories. There are thirty-four large
factories in Havana itself, eight of them owned by
the so-called "Trust" controlled by the American
202 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
Tobacco Company. The factories included in the
"Trust" are the Henry Clay & Bock, Cabañas, Car-
vajal and Villar y Villar; E l Aguila del Oro; Henry
Clay and L a Carolina; L a Corona; L . Suarez
Murias; and two cigarette factories.
   The most important among the other firms are
Aliones, Ltd., producing the Eminencia and Ramon
Aliones cigars; Alvarez y Hermanos; Julio Armas;
Arronte, Flores y Cia; Azcano, Anselmo; Behreno y
Cia; Castañeda; Cifuentes, Pego y Cia; Compañia
Cubana; Dosal y Comp; E l Rey del Mundo; Fer-
nandez y Palicio; F. E . Fonseca; F . Garcia y
Hermanos; R. Hinojosa y Hermanos; M . Lopez
Fernandez; Lopez y Cia; Florentino Mantilla; Mar-
tinez, Hermano y Cia; Angel Menendez; Montero
y Cia; C. del Peso; Por Larrañaga; Rocha y Comp;
Romeo y Julietta; Rodriguez, Mendez y Cia;
Murias; Herederos de José Gener; Trinidad y
Hermano; H . Upmann; Villaamil, Santalla y Cia.
   Any cigars taken from boxes bearing the above
names and a Cuban revenue stamp are genuine
Havana cigars. The biggest factories outside the
Trust are the Romeo y Julietta, the Larrañaga, the
Upmann, the Cifuentes, Pego y Cia, who make
Partagás cigars; Rocha y Cia; and Torres, Gener
Hermanos, Herederos de José Gener.
    "SMOKE?"    HOW GOOD CIGARS ARE MADE 203
   There are forty-one dealers in leaf tobacco.
   Not all Havana cigars are made in Havana, many
being made from Cuban leaf in Florida and else-
where and packed in Havana boxes. Many cigars
made in Key West and Tampa are of first quality,
however, and can stand on their own merits.
   The United States is Havana's chief client for
leaf-tobacco and cigars, but not for cigars alone.
Great Britain imports an average of two million
Havana cigars monthly; the United States only an
average of one and a quarter millions. But the
United States imports twenty to twenty-five thou-
sand bales of leaf every month as against Britain's
bare fifty bales.
   The biggest customers of Havana cigar factories
outside of Great Britain and the United States are
Spain, which imports sometimes more than Great
Britain, though of an inferior quality; France, which
smokes half a million Havana cigars every month;
the Canary Islands, Australia, Belgium, the Argen-
tine and Germany.
   The largest individual orders given various
Havana factories come from the fighting services
of Great Britain, the United States, France and
Spain. The officers of the United States Navy an-
nually smoke several hundred thousand Carolina
204 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
perfectos. Other big orders, apart from dealers,
come from clubs, each big club having its own
special brand.
   There are more than twenty thousand different
brands of cigars, each with its own wrapper. Any-
one willing to order, say, ten thousand cigars at once
may have his own wrapper. Some of the big clubs
of New York and London order cigars in fifty thou-
sand lots.
   There are not as many shapes of cigars as there
are brands, but there are far too many to enumerate.
The different shapes have no definite name; that is
to say, an excepcionales may be one shape with Villar
y Villar, and another shape entirely with Corona.
A perfecto is nearly always rounded at the mouth
end and shaped like a thick blunt pencil at the other.
A bouquetfinowith some firms is the same as a
perfecto only smaller and thicker at the smoking end
than at the other. The invencible is generally long
and generously thick, and the panatella is longer
and thinner. Other marks include the diademas,
especiales, cesares, albas, eminentes, non plus ultras,
regalias, imperiales, admirals, regentes, Jockey
Clubs, ideales, golondrinas, deidades, generales,
coloneles, favorecidos, and almirantes.
    "SMOKE?"     HOW GOOD CIGARS ARE MADE 205

                          IV

   Cigarmakers work in vast and well-lighted halls
at benches not unlike school desks. Each has his
particular brand to make. Sometimes he will finish
the cigars himself; sometimes he will have a finisher,
sitting beside him.
   The process is to take the long, narrow leaves and
put them one inside the other, carefully eliminating
with the hoja de lata (tin knife) all strings and twigs.
This is the filler. It gradually grows thicker under
the practiced fingers and finally assumes cigar shape.
The filler-leaf is then wrapped with a leaf of
stronger and usually lighter texture, this is twisted
at either end and gummed.
   The cigar is then trimmed at either end and is
ready for smoking. The wetting of the wrapper to
the filler is still generally done with the tongue de-
spite all efforts of sanitary commissions to make the
use of sponges obligatory. The sponges are on every
desk, the makers are threatened with fines if they do
not use them, but habit is hard to break. At any rate
it is known that no germ can live on tobacco, and the
general health of tobacco workers is astonishing.
They almost never catch contagious diseases and are
almost immune from tuberculosis. In the old
206 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
plague days men and women chewed tobacco as a
preventive.
   Most of the cigarmakers are men, but there are
some women among them. In the center or at one
end of the big room, on a sort of throne, sits the
reader, who is paid by the workers (twenty cents per
man per day) to read to them while they work. H e
reads newspapers, magazines and occasionally books.
H e has no especial preferences and the taste of his
hearers is never consulted. Anything that comes to
hand is read. As a matter of fact the cigarmaker
seldom listens to the reader to understand him. A
murmur penetrates his consciousness; that is all. But
the moment the reader ceases to read he finds his
tongue and a babel of chatter arises all over the
room. For this reason the companies encourage the
reader, since it is known that a cigarmaker will work
twice as fast silent than talking.
   The cigars when made are inspected by an expert,
who grades them. They are then packed in their
cedar boxes by girls, some of whom are very comely.
The boxes are packed in tin-lined crates to protect
them from the climates en route.
   From tobacco field to tin-lined box takes a cycle
of several months. The tobacco has been dried,
cured, fermented, dried again, wetted at the fac-
    "SMOKE?"     HOW GOOD CIGARS ARE MADE 207
tory, rolled and packed. Now it is ready for the
smoker.
   Somewhere in the world the concentrated aroma
distilled by the Cuban sun and enclosed in cylindrical
weed will mean a fragrant half-hour for a lover of
the best. It will quiet his nerves, soothe his spirit
and perfume his thoughts.
   Who knows what inspiration may not be born as
the blue smoke curls aloft?
                CHAPTER XVII
             A LIVING HISTORY BOOK
                         I

ONE day in the eighties, when the magnificent cry
of "Cuba libre!" first touched the heart-chords of a
sympathetic world, a beardless boy of twenty walked
diffidently into the New York law office of Elihu
Root.
   A scowling head clerk eyed him. What did he
wish?
   "I want to see Mr; Root," said the boy. "I am
going to work here."
   The head clerk sniffed.
   "I didn't know we needed students in this office,"
he said.
   One year later the scowling chief clerk left for
other fields and the beardless boy took his place at
Mr. Root's direction.
   At twenty-one Horatio S. Rubens was the young-
est lawyer's chief clerk in New York City.
   H e was not a chief clerk long. Before the beard
had time to toughen he had hung out his own
shingle and was a specialist in a day long before
                        208
             A LIVING HISTORY BOOK               209
specialists were common. His specialty was Spanish-
America.
   How this came about was simple enough. He had
made a friend of a young Cuban, refugee for politi-
cal reasons from Spain. This friend introduced him
to cafés frequented by Spanish-Americans, and often
he received invitations to visit their houses.
   "Their talk was mostly of oppression," says
Rubens, "and their hatred of Spain governed their
every phrase. They told me things I did not think
possible of Spain's cruelty to her New World pos-
sessions. As a matter of fact I only half believed
them. In the sane and quiet atmosphere of New
York such tales seemed romantic inventions. They
smacked of barbarism. A day came when I knew
them to be true."
   One evening he was invited to the house of his
Cuban friend, Gonzalo de Quesada.
   "Tonight you are going to meet the greatest
Cuban living," he was told, "a man who has dedi-
cated his life to the freedom of his country."
   This man was Marti, the immortal patriot.
Rubens says of him:
   " T o hear the story of this man's life was to think
of Washington, Cromwell, Vater Jahn, and all those
great revolutionary leaders of history. But to see
 him and to listen to him was to think of Lincoln—
210 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
Lincoln the brave, the gentle, the far-seeing, the sad.
   "I felt reborn when I listened to this man. His
was the simple, inspiring logic of the patriot to
whom argument was as nothing compared with the
Cause. H e was a great orator—one of the greatest
Cuba, home of oratory, has bred—but his words were
not the words of an orator that night. I remember
thinking as I listened to him, If Christ lived he was
a man like this!"
   Marti honored Rubens by his friendship. H e had
heard that Rubens was a singularly successful lawyer
for one so young. Rubens was sufficiently bold to
ask the Cuban exactly what the "Cause" was.
   "Liberty," said Marti, simply. "The liberty of
conscience which is every man's birthright.
   " W e are about to fight in Cuba for the same Lib-
erty which George Washington fought for in the
United States. You threw off the yoke more than
a century ago. W e are still bound to an ancient
kingdom, governed by dissolute nobles whose only
thought is to make their fortune from our labor and
then to return home.
   "The oppression which Washington rebelled
against was political, not actual—one of taxation
without representation, government by dictation. In
Cuba we face more than that.
   "During our revolution against Spain which lasted
             A LIVING HISTORY BOOK              211
from 1868 to 1878, every day one thousand natives
died of torture and starvation. Women with new-
born babies at their breasts were falling dead on the
streets for lack of sustenance. Children ten years
old were forced to do the work of grown men, under
the scourge of whips. And today, half of native
Cuba is starving, while the Spaniards are wallowing
in plenty.
   "Innocent families have been deprived of their
homes on the merest pretext and obliged to live in
reconcentrados, or camps on the plains, with infected
water, insufficient food, and no milk. Babies in these
camps are born but to die.
   "There was butchery inconceivable in the days of
the last revolution, all under the guise of military
necessity. It is sufficient to be suspected to be shot.
One hundred persons, most of them untried, are shot
to death every day in the military prisons of Cuba.
   "What shall we be fighting for? I will explain.
If a Cuban owns ten varas of land, half of what he
can raise thereon is the tax taken by the King's gov-
ernment. H e is obliged to feed the King's army at
cost. There are many Cubans who work every year
and all year for less than the wages of a slave.
   "Yet Cuba is Cuban—it is not Spanish! W e were
occupied—but we were never conquered. Cuba is as
old as Spain itself! W e owe no allegiance to a King
212 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
four thousand miles away. What has he done for
Cuba except to build forts for his soldiers and man-
sions for his governors? H e has built no roads, no
railroads, no ports except those for the convenience
of his own people. The Spaniards live in palaces,
the Cubans in hovels. Thousands die every week
from plague because the Spanish King takes the
money for himself that should be used for the
building of sewers.
   " W e shall be fighting for the same independence
that America fought for under Washington."
   Rubens says that made him think. Why, seeing
that Cuba was struggling for the same freedom that
the United States had won, and with more reason,
why did not the United States help?
   Marti, the man who was part Washington, part
Lincoln, impressed him in a way no other man was
ever to impress him. H e felt rather than knew that
the things he said were true.
   And suddenly the young lawyer felt surging
through him the same passionate sympathy that
brought Lafayette to the aid of the rebellious
colonies, that brought Irish hotheads to Garibaldi's
staff.
   A tiny nation was struggling to throw off the
yoke of an old-world oppressor. Perhaps the Span-
ish King, a boy, had not ordered the cruelties done
              A LIVING HISTORY BOOK               213
in his name, but he and his government were
responsible.
   Clearly Cuba's was a righteous cause. . . .

                          II
   It happened that through one of his Spanish-
American friends, young Rubens, in the year 1894—
one year after he had first met Marti—was briefed
to defend a certain General Ereta and his associates,
of San Salvador. They were on trial for their lives
in San Francisco. The trial has nothing to do with
this story; suffice it to note that young Rubens was
called a fool for taking the case. In the first place,
there was not much money in it; in the second place,
the extradition which the San Salvadoran govern-
ment sought from San Francisco would most cer-
tainly be granted. What could Rubens do?
  What Rubens did was win the case—on the
merest of technicalities which need not be explained
here. Ereta and his fellow conspirators went free.
And overnight the young lawyer's reputation in
Spanish-American circles soared sky-high.
   In 1894 Porfirio Diaz, then President of Mexico,
sent for Rubens to untangle a nasty knot which had
been puzzling him—a knot which is also of no con-
sequence to this story. Before Rubens could com-
plete the job he had a summons from Marti.
214 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
   In the year that had followed since Rubens had
met Marti the latter, indefatigable, had built up an
organization called the Cuban Revolutionary Party,
whose battle-cry was Cuba Libre. Begun in the
cigar factories of Key West, the movement spread
wherever there were Cubans or sympathizing His-
pano-Americans. Clubs were formed, the members
guaranteeing to give up ten percent of all they
earned to the common fund. When specially emer-
gent funds were needed the club members worked
on Sunday, and gave all they earned on that day
to the fund.
   With the money thus raised munitions were pur-
chased and these were shipped on filibustering boats
to Cuba.
   Marti met Rubens in New York.
   "One of our filibustering expeditions has been
stopped in Florida," he said. "The munitions have
been seized and most of the men arrested. W i l l you
go there and try to get them released?"
   " Y e s , " said Rubens, instantly.
   Marti looked at him keenly.
   " W e are not rich," he said. " Y o u lawyers are
paid big sums for such work. How much will you
charge?"
   Rubens looked at him. H e smiled.
              A LIVING HISTORY BOOK                215
   "Señor Marti," he said, "you are organizer and
president of the junta, are you not?"
   " I am," said Marti.
   Rubens twisted a long cigar in his mouth. Then,
abruptly:
   " H o w much are you getting?" he asked.
   The Cuban sprang to his feet, his face crimson,
his eyes flashing.
   "Sir!" he cried. " I ask you to accept a commis-
sion and—and you insult me. . . ."
   Rubens flicked the ash from his cigar.
   " M r . Marti," he said, "I am not the one who is
insulting. You have insulted me. W h y should I
be paid for doing my bit in the cause of freedom?"
   " W h y — w h y , " stammered Marti, "you—you are
not a Cuban—"
   " N o , " said Rubens, "but I am an American. And
Cuba's fight is America's fight—or should be.
I don't want pay, Marti. I'll go down there
tonight."
   H e went to Jacksonville, got the filibusters off and
the cargo released, and the munitions finally found
their destination in Cuba.
   From then on Rubens worked like a Hercules in
the cause he had espoused. He became general
counsel for the Cuban junta in New York. This
junta was composed of Marti, delegate-in-the-field,
216 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
and, after his death, Tomas Estrada Palma; Joaquin
Castillo, sub-delegate; Gonzalo de Quesada, secre-
tary; Benjamin Guerra, treasurer; and Emilio
Nunez, chief of expeditions. O f them all Rubens
today is the only one alive.
   Active revolution continued in Cuba for three and
one-half years. During all that time Rubens worked
as general counsel for the Cuban junta without
charge. Not only that, he had sold his practice that
he might have all his time to devote to the work on
which his heart Was set.
   "It was Marti that made me do it," he told this
writer. " I was a youngster—and the cause of free-
dom spoke strong. I thought of Marti as a god.
He was the greatest man I had ever known. I—I
loved him. And through him I loved Cuba and the
Cuban cause."
   The duties of "general counsel" were not so
prosaic. On several occasions the young lawyer was
himself a filibuster. In the year 1897 the filibuster-
ing ship he was on was chased by a Spanish warship,
and escaped only after many casualties. Rubens
fired his musket with the best of them.
   A l l this time there was functioning in New York
and Washington a bureau of propaganda in favor of
the Cuban rebels. It was created and financed by
Rubens.
             A LIVING HISTORY BOOK              217
   When McKinley, urged by the vested interests,
tried to impose an armistice on the Cubans, Rubens
denounced the plan. H e went to Washington and
saw the President.
   "The rebels must accept," said McKinley. " I f
they do not it means distintegration or starvation for
them. This is a fair offer. The United States will
see fair play."
   "Sir," said Rubens passionately, "there is no fair
play while Spain remains in Cuba! W e will con-
sider no armistice—no compromise. As long as there
is a Cuban left to die we shall fight for the freedom
that should be ours."
   " M r . Rubens," said the President, curiously, "you
are not a Cuban. W h y do you say 'our'?"
   " M r . President," said the young lawyer, " I was
born an American. I was taught to believe in the
invincible and inalienable birthright of every human
being—liberty. Has this principle now been aban-
doned by the government of the United States?"
   H e left the White House and immediately be-
gan a tremendous publicity campaign, revealing the
horrors of the Cuban reconcentrados camps, when
whole populations were torn from their homes and
shut behind barbed-wire to die. The campaign
aroused much pro-Cuban sympathy among the
American people.
218 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
   Then Rubens played a master-stroke. H e ap-
pealed to one thousand newspapers to ask their
readers to telegraph their congressmen one phrase:
"This murder in Cuba must cease!"
   Telegrams by the hundreds of thousand deluged
Washington. The government and the Wall Street
interests were nonplused. The country was actually
at war heat. And all because of a youngster, hardly
thirty years old, who believed in the sacredness of
Liberty.
   A most fortuitious matter happened at this point.
The Spanish Minister most unwisely wrote a letter
to a friend in Havana in which he spoke his thoughts
against the Washington administration.
   President McKinley he referred to as "a weak,
pothouse politician catering to rebels."
   A Cuban employed by the secretary of war of the
Spanish administration in Cuba somehow got hold of
the letter and smuggled it out of the country. H e
took it to Rubens and laid it on his desk.
   "This," said Rubens, when he had read it, "is
war."
   H e had two options. H e could take it to Wash-
ington and show it to Secretary of State Day and the
President, in which case it would probably be hushed
up, or he could publish it and then take it to Wash-
ington.
             A LIVING HISTORY BOOK              219
   He chose the latter course and the next morning
all America rang with the Spanish Minister's perfidy.
The Minister was called on for a denial. H e re-
fused to deny. H e was given his passports.
   Karl Decker rescued Evangelina Cisneros.
   And then from Havana came the most stupendous
news of all.
   The Battleship "Maine" had blown up.

                         III
   Rubens' greatest achievement in the Cuban cause
came after the declaration and the winning of the
 jar. H e dictated a demand for the United States to
"declare its intentions" in intervening.
   A storm of denunciation swept over his head.
Newspapers from one end of the country to the
other scourged him editorially. What! Was it not
sufficient that American boys were dying for Cuba?
How could America's action be misinterpreted?
   Rubens was imperturbable.
   "Cuba has fought for liberty," he said. "She has
overthrown one master and she now asks that she be
given a guaranty of the freedom for which her
blood was spilled. If the intentions of the United
States are honorable, why cannot this guaranty be
made?"
   The logic was unanswerable, but the anger of the
220 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
 government was unabated. W ho was this Rubens
 that he should dictate to the government of the
 United States? Hadn't he got his war? Wasn't
 Cuba free from Spain? Well, then!
    But Rubens fought on. Senator Teller of Colo-
rado, a Republican who had turned Democrat over
 free-silver, introduced the famous Teller amend-
ment, written by Rubens, which stated that as far
as the United States was concerned, Cuba was now
free, and by which the United States guaranteed to
withdraw its forces as soon as a constitutional Cuban
government was organized.
    There was a bitter fight made against the Teller
amendment in Congress. Inkwells were thrown in
the House, in heat of argument. Teller and Rubens
found themselves called "traitors" and "unpatriots."
    But the Amendment had justice behind it and it
passed. Cuba was free—
    Cuba was free forever. Anti-imperialism had
triumphed.
                          IV
   Rubens, a sturdy man in the late fifties, spends his
winters in Havana, where he is president of the Cuba
Railroad.
   He has received every honor possible at the hands
of the Cuban government. The Joint Assembly has
proclaimed him Cuba's "adopted son."
              A LIVING HISTORY BOOK                221
   You may see him once in a while at the Country
Club or the Sevilla Hotel, with his young and very
charming wife.
   The cast of his head is like a hewn block of granite,
and as you look at him and hear his quiet speech you
seem to see the beardless boy who gave up a career
for an ideal.
   Marti was slain in May, 1895. The others of that
glorious band of Cuban patriots have died since.
Only Rubens, the American, who built his whole
career around an ideal, remains.
                 CHAPTER XVIII
     "HAVANA ISN'T CUBA." DOWN THE ISLAND

                           I
CUBA is a much bigger island than it seems to be on
the map.
    As the crow flies the distance between one tip and
the other is 750 miles, but as the railroad runs the
distance is nearer a thousand miles.
    It takes longer to go from Havana to Santiago
than from Paris to Monte Carlo and nearly as long
as from New York to Chicago. I f you leave Havana
on the fastest train at 10.30 p.m. you do not arrive in
Santiago until 8 p.m. the following evening.
    There are only two towns of any size on the way,
Santa Clara and Camagüey. Santa Clara, home of
the brilliant lawyer who became Gerardo Machado,
fifth President of Cuba, is just overnight. Camagiiey
is reached at noon. From then on the way runs
through sugar cane—two hundred miles of it—and
cattle-ranches.
    It would be unwise for me to allege "all the com-
forts of home" in traveling through Cuba. No one
does quite as much harm to a country or community
as the indiscriminate booster. For some years the
                          222
              "HAVANA ISN'T CUBA"                223
traveler in Cuba will not have all the comforts of
home, if we interpret these comforts as meaning
steel pullmans, luxurious club-smokers, elaborate
dining-cars, and thundering trains rapides.
   This is because a railroad can open up a country,
make settlement possible, ensure heavy transporta-
tion. But a railroad cannot develop a country. Only
highways can do that. And Cuba will not complete
her highway program until 1935.
   When the highways are finished the development
of the interior of Cuba will be comparable with that
of Southern California. The vast waste areas will
be populated. T h e railroad will begin to make
money. You cannot expect luxurious traveling at
the hands of a railroad which is only just breaking
even. Almost the only revenue of the Cuba Rail-
road is cane.
   At that the kind of transportation offered by the
railroads of Cuba is what we called luxurious in the
United States only fifteen years ago. There are
plenty of pullmans with compartments and drawing-
rooms. The beds are harder than those we are used
to now, but they are not really uncomfortable.
Many a present-day American train has worse.
   The trains are kept spotlessly clean except for
the dust which will sift in no matter what the porters
can do. The springs could be improved, likewise the
2 2 4 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
roadbed, but on the whole the journey to Camagüey
and Santiago is comfortable, particularly if made in
winter.
   Meals are served to pullman passengers on tables
placed between the pullman seats. The meals are
plain but the food is good and well-cooked. I have a
menu before me. Here are some items, with the
prices:

    Chicken with rice (arroz con polio) . . . . 0.70
    Pork chops                                  0.35
    Stuffed squids                              0.80
    Cold meats           :                      0.50
    Alligator-pear salad                        0.20
    Asparagus                                   0.40
    Pork and beans                              0.30
    Sirloin steak                               0.60
    Ham and eggs                                0.50
    Guava marmalade                             0.20
    Boned chicken                               1.00
    Potatoes to order                           0.20
    Chicken fricassee                           0.70
    Spaghetti                                   0.30
    Soups                                       0.30
    Omelettes                                   0.40
    Coffee                                      0.05
    Beer                                        0.15
    Rioja and other Spanish wines. . . 6o¢ to 1.00
    Cognac                                      0.25
    Bacardi                                     0.25
               "HAVANA ISN'T CUBA"               225
   Surely variety sufficient to satisfy the hunger of
anyone, and at a moderate price compared with the
American pullmans. The buffet service also sells
cigars, tobacco, newspapers and magazines.
   The excellence of the buffet service is largely due
to the energy of Senor C. Subirats, general freight
and passenger manager of the Cuba Railroad.

                          II
   There are two main railroad systems in Cuba.
One, the United Railroads, an English concern,
serves the western end of the island and Havana,
its lines extending westward from Havana to Santa
Barbara, through the marvelous scenery of Pinar
del Rio province, and eastward as far as Cumbre,
Cienfuegos, Matagua, Santa Gertrudis, Concha,
Cardenas, Matanzas, and Santa Clara, where the
Cuba Railroad begins.
   The Cuba Railroad serves the entire eastern end
and center of the island from Santa Clara on, tap-
ping the richest cane and cattle land and serving such
towns as Camagüey, Santiago, Manzanillo, Santa
Cruz del Sur, Trinidad, Antilla, Guantanamo,
Moron, Ciego de Avila, Gibara, Bayamo and Alto
Cedro.
   Between them these two consolidated systems, one
British and the other American (although controlled
226 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
by Cubans), run trains over slightly more than 3,000
miles of track. This trackage is almost doubled by
private standard-gauge railroads operated by the big
sugar companies. Some of these private railroads
operate with the clockwork-like precision of the
Pennsylvania. One big sugar company alone has
nearly 1,000 miles of standard-gauge track. These
private roads take the place of the badly-needed high-
ways. Specially-made automobiles run on the rails.
   The first Cuban railroad was built by British capi-
talists in 1837. It ran from Havana to Güines.
This was only ten years after the first steam-railroad
was operated in the United States. Spaniards were
fond of referring to Cuba as a savage, uncivilized
country, but it is a fact that Spain itself did not have
a railroad until ten years after the Cuban one was in
full operation.
   Most of the early railroad development in Cuba
was due to English capital and enterprise. Not only
the United Railways of Cuba, which is still British,
but also the Cuba Railroad (Consolidated Railways
of Cuba) was surveyed and built by Britishers. The
capital in the latter case was mostly American, but
the builder was Sir William Van Horne, who previ-
ously had opened up immense tracts of wilderness in
Canada.
               "HAVANA ISN'T CUBA"                 227
   A few years ago the Cuba Railroad was reorgan-
ized and turned over to a Cuban managing board.
The President, Horatio S. Rubens, is the only Ameri-
can on the board, and we have seen in a previous
chapter that the Cubans very rightly considered him
one of themselves.
   When the reorganization was effected the Ameri-
cans associated with the railroad's management re-
tired and their places were taken by Cubans. So far
the Cuban management has been voted a success.
Trains run on time and there have been no serious
accidents. Modern rolling-stock will be substituted
for the present coaches as soon as the traffic justifies
the outlay.
   In 1926 the Pullman Company ran an all-steel
de luxe train twice weekly from Havana to Santiago.
The experiment failed, but in the humble opinion
of this writer it failed because it was an enterprise
solely managed for tourists. The trip to Santiago
took three days, with numerous halts by the way to
inspect sugar-mills, cane-fields, cattle-ranches and so
forth. The result was that when the tourists ar-
rived in Santiago they were completely tired out.
If the train had been run on regular schedule, stop-
ping in Camagüey only long enough for the passen-
gers to have lunch at the wonderful Camagüey Ho-
228 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
tel, the train might have been run at a profit. Regu-
lar customers of the line would have been able to
avail themselves of it.

                         III
   The tourist bent on "seeing the island" is advised
to do so in four different sorties. As follows:

  No. I—Havana to Hershey, Matanzas, Cárdenas and
Veradero, returning by way of Giiines and Batabano.

   On this trip, by United Railways of Havana, the
tourist will see the Hershey Sugar Mill, a model one
in which most of the sugar used by the chocolate
firm is ground, and which has its own electric rail-
way to Havana. Milton Hershey is a familiar figure
in Havana, especially at the Jockey Club and the
Casino. His charities and his bluff personality have
made him popular.
   Matanzas is fifty miles from Havana and is inter-
esting to the tourist because of its scenery more than
because of its industry, which is that of the ordinary
port. It is the largest shipping point in Cuba except
for Havana, exports being confined to sugar and to-
bacco. Extensive sisal fields in the neighborhood
provide twine for the American Harvester Company.
   The scenery is well-nigh as beautiful as any the
Tropics provide. The Yumuri Valley, which har-
               "HAVANA ISN'T CUBA"               229
bors the Bellamar Caves, is a Mecca for painters and
lovers of beauty.
   Cubans say that the most beautiful women come
from Cárdenas, but that is a question de gout. The
author is inclined to favor Santiago in this regard.
   The best hotel is the Hotel Paris, in the new
town, with comfortable accommodations and good
food.
   Cárdenas, thirty-five miles eastward from M a -
tanzas, is a sugar port and of little interest apart
from the famous Veradero Beach, fourteen miles
away and eleven miles long, one of the finest
stretches of sandy beach in North America.
   Veradero Beach, or part of it, has lately been pur-
chased by a group headed by Irenée D u Pont and
work is progressing toward making the place into a
costly private club for executives of General Motors
and other D u Pont interests. When finished this
will possibly be the largest private club in the world.
It will have its own port of entry for yachts, its own
private casino, a large clubhouse, and a number of
homes will be built there by American executives
who will make the place their winter home. Further
along this magnificent shelving beach a large tourist
hotel and casino will be built.
   Within twenty years the entire North Coast of
Cuba will be dotted with such enterprises. One
230 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
much bruited now is a private beach-resort to be built
by a league of Country Clubs of America.
   From Cárdenas one travels through cane-fields,
cattle-ranches and sisal-plantations to Güines, which
was the terminus of the second railway line to be
built in North America. Giiines is an old city now in
decadence. From Giiines a train is taken to Saint
Felipe, where it is necessary to change for Batabano.
   Batabano is on the south side of Cuba directly
opposite Havana on the north. It is the port for the
Isle of Pines,* and a visit to this large island is indi-
cated if you have time. Count two days for the
trip.
   Batabano is a picturesque city of green-painted
houses and red-tiled roofs, the whole making a most
picturesque panorama from the roof of the Hotel
Cervantes, a modern hostelry which serves the fa-
mous Morro crabs and langouste of the region in
many appetizing ways.
   But the real industry of Batabano is the sponge.
Some of the finest sponges in the world are fished in
the shallow bay before the port. They can be
bought in the town quite cheaply, a dollar buying
four large sponges of the best quality.
   From Batabano stretches an interesting road to

  * Isle of Pines: One of the most delightful islands in the world.
See Terry's Guide.
              "HAVANA ISN'T CUBA"                231
Havana, one of the best on the island. By auto-
mobile the trip can be made in an hour and a half.

  No. 2—Cienfuegos, Santa Clara, Trinidad, Cumbre.
United Railways and Cuba Railroad.

   The Bay of Cienfuegos, on the south side of
the island, with its Castillo de Jagua fortress, is
worth traveling all the way from New York merely
to see. Arrive there just before sunset and you will
be given one of the thrills of your life.
   Cienfuegos itself, which is 170 kilometers from
Havana, is the sea-coast resort of Havana society,
and is well provided with good hotels and restau-
rants. The Hotel Union will be found modern and
comfortable and the San Carlos Hotel is also quite
good. Cienfuegos is comparatively modern com-
pared with other cities on the island; it was founded
in 1819.
   Santa Clara, capital of the province of that name,
has at present few attractions for the tourist and
what attractions there are are counterbalanced by a
lack of good hotel accommodation. T h e Santa Clara
Hotel, with flowery patios, is alone worthy patronage.
    Cumbre is the junction for Trinidad and is the
 highest point on the Cuban railroads—683 feet above
 the sea. It has no other importance for the tourist.
   Trinidad, founded by Diego de Velázquez in 1514,
2 3 2 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
is one of the oldest and most interesting cities in
the Americas, and merits a wider renown. The
atmosphere is that of a century ago, and were it not
that the hotel accommodation rivals the city in point
of antiquity the venerable pueblo would be a much
greater magnet than it is.
   The Gran Hotel Canada is probably the best of
the several mediocre hotels. Its rooms are clean
and airy and its meals good. For an overnight
stay the accommodation is sufficient, but luxury is
wanting.
   The very air of Trinidad breathes romance. Here
the lovely girls, with their clear olive skins and deep
brown eyes, still wear the high combs and mantillas
and gay-colored skirts of ancient Spain. Many of
the residents can trace their lineage directly to the
days of Columbus. Flowers, fruits and the hun-
dred-and-one tropical birds and insects are every-
where. The architecture is almost pure Andalusian.
   Trinidad is the principal center for hunting in
Cuba and is a paradise for the sportsmen. W i l d
deer and duck abound and alligators throng the
streams and backwaters. A month would be insuffi-
cient to properly explore and appreciate this fine old
city were the accommodation for visitors more mod-
ern and comfortable.
               "HAVANA ISN'T CUBA"                 233


  No. 3—Pinar del Río, Guanajay, Mariel.        United
Railways.

   A classic excursion from Havana of a Sunday is
to Mariel beach, via Guanajay. It can be made by
railway or by automobile along good roads.
   Mariel, sometimes called " T h e Athens of Cuba,"
is a fine beach with a café, the Villa Martin. The
specialty at this restaurant is arroz con pollo, but one
can have clam-chowder, native oysters and shell-fish,
and wonderful fried pargo. Fishing here is excel-
lent.
    Guanajay itself has little of interest to offer, but
beyond lie the fabulous tobacco fields of Pinar del
Río province, called the Garden of Cuba.
   Pinar del Río has thermal resorts (San Antonio
de los Banos; San Diego de los Banos) which are
well known for their treatment of skin and rheu-
matic complaints. The province is the center for
pineapples as well as tobacco, is rich in minerals (cop-
per and iron) and possesses some magnificent scenery.
The Cordillera mountains enclose some beautiful
little valleys often used for camping purposes by
Havana boys' schools.
    The town of Pinar del Río has a very good little
hotel offering modern comfort—the Hotel Globo.
234 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
It is a clean, bustling little city in the very center
of the famous Vuelta Abajo Valley, where the best
cigar tobacco in the world is grown.
   While in Pinar del Rio take an automobile to the
extraordinary Vinales Valley, in which the tropical
verdure contrasts in startling fashion with tall, iso-
lated pillars of gray limestone rock. This valley is
known as one of the sights of Cuba, and every
hundred yards ventured along it yields a new and
enchanting vista.
   Such are the three minor excursions to be made
from Havana, each demanding from two to three
days. The fourth trip is longer and at least ten days
should be set aside for it. It is the journey from
Havana to Santiago de Cuba, via Camagüey. A new
chapter is necessary that the journey may properly
be explained.
  NOTE: In traveling through Cuba the author found Terry's Guide
to Cuba of the greatest service, and it should form a part of the
equipment of every traveler.
                 CHAPTER XIX
  ALL THE WAY TO BACARDI TOWN.        THE GANG AT
                  CAMAGÜEY
                          I

CAMAGÜEY, reached at noon after an all-night jour-
ney from Havana, has two things to its credit, both
of interest to the casual tourist.
   First, it has one of the most wonderful hotels
in the world.
   Second, it has a tiny colony of grin-and-bear-it
Americans who have made of this dusty, somnolent
Indian town in the cane-fields a real and a delightful
home. Their residence in such a place might have
been a martyrdom—the monotony might have killed.
Instead, exercising a facility of social intercourse
comparable only to that of a remote army post, this
handful of Americans, most of them young, have
made the best of it to such purpose that none of them
I talked to, with the exception of one who sighed for
Paris (and he was Spanish, not American), seemed
unduly sorry for himself to have to live so far from
the amenities of his own civilization.
                         235
236 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
    Nightly they meet, comparing gossip and golf
 scores, in the bar of the Camagüey Hotel—a bar
 which would be a curiosité mondial if in Paris or
 London; Sundays they dine together in the hotel
 restaurant; every minute they can spare from work
 or golf they spend in each other's homes, playing
 bridge, dancing, working the radio and phonograph.
    Such communities one finds on the outposts of
 civilization, especially in British colonizing posts of
 India and Africa. The American is less given to
 them, preferring a solitary way; the colony at
 Camagüey is therefore exceptionally surprising and
interesting. I do not suppose that they are twenty
all-told.
    The stray tourist to them is an event. They need
little invitation to entertain him. Ten minutes after
one gathers around the cocktail-table in the hotel
of an evening one feels one has known them all
their lives. More genuinely friendly people I never
met.
   There's George Walsh, a sturdy pioneer now
given to golf, who is said to have lived in Cuba forty
years. George, who is a contractor, is solemn up to
the seventh daiquiri. There are the Reids, M r . and
charming Mrs., whose mission in life is to import
lumber into a country which uses mahogany for
railroad ties! That's one strange thing you'll find
         ALL THE WAY TO BACARDI TOWN             237
about Cuba: they will use Oregon soft pine instead
of native hardwood, which is cheaper; they will eat
Chicago beef although Cuba is a ranching country;
they will eat Northern fruits in preference to their
thousand-and-one much more succulent ones; they
will even import pineapples from Florida when
Cuban pineapples are the best in the world.
   Some Americans will tell you that this is because
the Cuban is "jest naturally born lazy—all he thinks
of is a woman." His country teems with oppor-
tunity which he neglects himself, finally to become
resentful when foreigners exploit the riches he
should have had.
   However—let's get back to the "bunch" in
Camagüey.
   There are the Trinlers. Newland Trinler was a
pilot in the Great War and had his share of air
battles. That, to anyone who knows what aviators
are like, ought to explain Trinler. It ought, too, to
explain Mrs. Margaret Trinler, but it doesn't—it
falls far short. Aviators always could pick 'em, but
surely few had Mr. Trinler's luck. Mrs. Trinler
would be beautiful in any ballroom in the world.
   There are the Wilsons. Mr. Wilson has a lovely
home and a perfectly charming wife. Strange, how
many nice wives there are in Camagüey. Mrs.
Laura Wilson is the pianist of the set (which means
238 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
that she doesn't get as many dances) but she's very
unselfish about it.
   Then there are the George Augustus O'Briens.
From Mexico and other places. A courteous and
jolly couple. And Doctor Jenovsky, who plays a
wicked game at red-dog. And Ora Waterman, who
writes for the Times of Cuba and is the iconoclast
of the set.
   Decidedly, if you go to Camagüey, I recommend
that about 6 p.m. you approach José Fernandez,
the picturesque bartender at the Camagüey Hotel (it
is said that twice playfully he shot obstreperous cus-
tomers, but was released without trial on representa-
tions by the American colony that he was the only
good bartender in town) and whisper in José's ear the
name of one of the foregoing persons. I f he points
to where he is sitting, have not the slightest hesita-
tion in going over and introducing yourself (if you
are the sort of man who will buy his share). Set up
a round for me.
                          II
  Hotel Camagüey is owned and operated by the
Cuba Railroad Company. It was founded by Sir
William Van Horne in January, 1905, Sir William
being a gentleman who liked bedrooms-with-baths
and a French cuisine.
        ALL THE WAY TO BACARDI TOWN             239
   It is such a hotel as you would hardly expect to
find in the middle of Cuba. It is, in fact, one of
the fifty or sixty curious hotels of the world.
   The building itself as it at present exists dates
from 1849, but parts of it are centuries older. In
the seventeenth century Spanish settlers found a
fort in Camagüey constructed by Spanish adventurers
on the site of an Indian fort which probably ante-
dated Columbus. The settlers used the place as a
sort of barracks.
   In 1849 Sir Henry Morgan and other notorious
privateers made so many successful raids on the town,
then the largest on the island, that the Spanish gov-
ernment became alarmed. T h e old fort was razed,
except for the side-walls of the stables (now the
dining-room and bar), and a new fortress built on the
site. T h e new building had walls four feet thick,
with heavy mahogany beams and solid iron bars at
the windows. A troup of cavalry was stationed there
with instructions to chase the next pirate who came
to town and hang him from the highest rafter. The
pirate, however, escaped, after a running fight to
port. The buccaneers were nearly as good horse-
men as they were sailors—an anomaly which would
confound the sailor of today.
   Beneath the barracks were—and are—vast stor-
age tanks for water and cellars for provisions. In
240 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
case of a siege Camagüey would be safe within its
walls. Such a protracted siege never came.
    In 1905 Sir William Van Horne, who was then
presiding over the destinies of the Cuban Railroad,
decided to make Camaguey the center of his activities
and to build the railroad's shops there. There was
only one difficulty—lack of a decent hotel for the
Canadian builder and his executives.
    In seeking about for a site for a hotel Sir W i l -
liam's eye fell on the old fort. H e had his share of
imagination, and shortly afterward the ancient build-
ing became the Camaguey Hotel. The stables, with
their massive mahogany beams, formed the lobby,
dining-room and bar. The barracks were altered and
fifty or sixty suites of rooms built around the two
patios. Each room had a private bath, something
that was then unknown in Cuba—and almost un-
known in the United States.
    T h e furniture was constructed on the spot from
native woods, some of which are now so rare that
certain chairs and tables in the hotel are worth hun-
dreds of dollars each. In the bar each arm-chair
weighs seventy-five pounds. This, it is alleged, is
because Sir William Van Home had a son who much
enjoyed the wild life of the Cuban frontier, and who
was endowed with exceptional stature and strength.
So that he could not playfully toss the chairs around,
         ALL THE WAY TO BACARDI TOWN              241
saith Rumor, Sir William had them made of the
heaviest wood obtainable.
   The Camagüey Bar in those days was a place
where things happened. It was the custom for the
surrounding ranchers, instead of hitching their ponies
outside, to ride them into the bar, along which they
would range, drinking from the saddle. Every so
often the bartender would object and be shot, but
this became such a frequent occurrence that Sir W i l -
liam Van Horne called a halt. "Boys," he said,
"the next time my bartender is shot I'll close the
bar!" The threat was enough. Later on the present
bartender distinguished himself (with reason and ex-
cuse) as aforesaid.
   Colonel Cushman Rice, who has a ranch east of
town, tells of a horse he had that was trained to
put his feet on the Camaguey Bar and drink a bottle
of whiskey at a gulp, but this may be only another
of the Colonel's stories.
   The hotel is still owned and managed by the rail-
road company and, unlike most railroad hotels, is an
excellent place. There is luxury sufficient to please
the most exacting traveler—the head waiter comes
each winter from Paris—and the place itself is less
of a hotel than a home. The rooms are large,
screened and comfortable, and a myriad of scarlet
and magenta flowers climb about the porches. The
242 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
two patios, which are two acres in extent, are planted
with every known variety of tropical shrub and tree,
a fascinating spot to loaf or dream. For the traveler
desiring rest I recommend a few weeks at the Cama-
güey Hotel, providing he steers clear of the "gang."
   Mario de la Cruz is the manager, George C.
Morad is the head waiter, José B . Fernandez is the
bartender, and Pépe is the waiter in the bar. So now
you are fully equipped for a visit to Camagiiey.

                          III
   From Camagiiey eastward the road runs through
monotonous miles of sugar-cane. Hour after hour
the vista hardly changes. Here and there are little
towns with wide streets bordered by wooden shanties,
recalling the "wild West" sets of the movies. A t
every station children besiege the train, selling fruit,
candies, newspapers and lottery-tickets.
   The train passes many settlements of Haitian
cane-cutters, black as coal and almost as naked as
Adam and Eve—certainly their habits of living must
approximate those of our first parents. If you ever
feel tempted to think the Garden of Eden a fine
place, take a look at these Adams and these Eves.
   From Camagüey toward the northern coast there
is a branch of the Consolidated Northern Railroad
which goes to Morón, Puerto, Tarafa, Nuevitas and
         ALL THE WAY TO BACARDI TOWN              243
Pastelillo. O f these Nuevitas alone is interesting to
the tourist, although the scenery along this route is
very fine.
    Nuevitas is interesting because it is the place Co-
lumbus first set foot on the Western hemisphere—
in the belief that he had sailed from Spain to India.
The village was then called Caunao and was in-
habited by the Carib Indians, of whom few are
existent today. It was for a long while the most
important port in Cuba.
    Near Nuevitas is the island to which Mr. and
Mrs. Jekyll, mentioned in a previous chapter, retired.
There is fine hunting and fishing, and the port is a
center for the hunting and export of turtle.
    Not far from Puerto Tarafa, a modern sugar
port, is the oldest interior American colony of Cuba
— L a Gloria. This colony has had an interesting his-
tory which has been published in book-form. One
of the founders was the indomitable Mrs. Florence
H . Kendall, well known for her ambulance work
during the war in France.
    The tourist wishing to visit Nuevitas and La
Gloria had best be prepared for some little discom-
fort in the matter of hotel accommodation and rail-
way travel.
    Eastward from Camagüey the first town of any
 size is Marti, where a branch runs to Bayamo and
244 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
 Manzanillo through fertile ranch and cane country.
Near Bayamo the eldest son of José Estrada Palma,
first president of Cuba, has a cattle-ranch.
   A t Alto Cedro another line runs northward to
Antilla, Nipa Bay, Banes and Preston. This region
is almost entirely devoted to the great cane fields of
the United Fruit Company, with two mills at Pres-
ton and Banes. Preston was named after the presi-
dent of the Fruit Company who founded it.
   Nipa Bay recalls San Francisco Bay. It is almost
completely surrounded by mountains. It is here that
the famous Cobre saint (patron saint of Cuba) was
found. The mountains surrounding are heavily
mineralized and important iron and copper mines are
worked by the Bethlehem Steel and other companies.
   These are side-trips which will mean at least a
day's delay for the traveler, who will perhaps find it
wiser to proceed directly to Santiago.
   Santiago de Cuba, for the possession of which
the greatest battle of the Spanish War was fought, is
on the southern side of the mountains which rear,
rampart-like, around Nipa Bay. The train, plung-
ing down into a fertile tropical valley, follows an
incomparably scenic route. T o the north the moun-
tains. T o the south the Caribbean, with the most
glorious bay in the Antilles framed by somber cliffs
of (reputedly) solid copper. Set like a gleaming
        ALL THE WAY TO BACARDI TOWN             245
jewel between Bay and mountains—Santiago, love-
liest and most historic city of Cuba.

                         IV

   Santiago is the worst-paved city in Cuba. It is the
noisiest place of a morning I have ever been in. It
has three moderately good hotels, none of them de
luxe but all clean and comfortable. Its surrounding
scenery is a dream of delight. Its womanhood is
worth a trip from Europe to see, as it walks about
the bandstand of the Plaza nights.
   O f five girls passed on the streets of Santiago
four were not merely pretty; they were beautiful.
Beautiful but brunette. A blonde would be an
anachronism.
   They are kindly, too; they will smile at you as
you pass (if you smile at them), which is more than
the girls of New York will do. But there is some-
thing in their gay smile that is a bit roguish; you
feel that they are not merely smiling with you, but
laughing at you—you, the funny-looking, white-
skinned Northerner.
   If you smoke a pipe or wear plus-fours the smile
becomes a laugh outright.
   The three hotels, in the order of their excellence,
are the Casa Granda, the Venus and the Martinez.
The Casa Granda is owned by the Cuba Railroad and
246 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
is American-managed. The Venus is across the
Plaza, with a conveniently low, open-faced dining-
room from which you may eye the girls from your
dinner-table. It was at the Venus, you will remem-
ber, that Jennings S. Cox and others baptized the
daiquiri cocktail. The Martinez Hotel is a block
from the Plaza and is Spanish-owned and managed.
It has one personality worth noting: old Don Pancho,
the waiter, probably the oldest (and certainly the
slowest) waiter in Cuba.
   The Old-Timers of Santiago, many of whom
came there first with the regulars or Roosevelt,
gather twice a day at the two favorite bars, the
Casa Granda and the Venus. The Venus is chosen
for first-drink. First-drink in Santiago is at the un-
civilized hour of 9 a.m. First, second, third, fourth,
fifth, sixth and other drinks in Santiago are the same:
bacardi and water, or water and bacardi. T o drink
anything else stamps you as a newcomer indeed.
   The guest at the Casa Granda (which is most effi-
ciently managed by an American gentleman with the
contradictory name of Prudencio Bravo) had better
not stay out at night. Or, if he does, he might as
well stay out all night. For no matter what times
he goes to bed his awakening will be at the same
hour.
  The universal alarm-clock of Santiago is the
        ALL THE WAY TO BACARDI TOWN              247
cathedral bell, which is rung by ringers striking the
great copper mass with a sledge-hammer. The
gentleman with the sledge-hammer (you wish he
would miss and hit his foot) begins work about ten
minutes to five in the morning. The boom rever-
berates across the Plaza, through your room, over to
the mountains, and is then flung with sickening
violence back from the mountains towards your pil-
low, which it hits at full velocity. Should you chance
to go to sleep after this the sledge-hammer gets
going again at six o'clock.
   Then, it is true, it ceases. For all the bell-
smasher is concerned, you may now go to sleep.
But don't you try it. You'll be awakened in ten
minutes by the newsboys, shouting the early editions
of the morning papers.
   The newsboys station themselves directly under
your window and shrill their wares until you wish
them sunk in the Bay, newspapers and all. One little
fellow with a screech like a locomotive only meas-
ures three feet and on being questioned alleged he
was but five years old. I shudder to think what that
lad's voice is going to be like when he is twenty.
   The newsboys shout for half an hour. Then they
stop—or perhaps their noise is drowned by a new
din, that of the early motor-busses getting ready
to start. These blow their horns continuously and
248 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
at once for ten or fifteen minutes, at the end of which
the resigned visitor throws aside his mosquito-netting
with a vicious oath and patters over the tiles to his
bath.
   When he appears in the hotel lobby about half
past seven he finds it in full animation. Apparently
everyone has been up for hours. Over there at the
bar L . A. Deakin and Paul Prentiss are confabbing—
but not drinking. N o , sir. More than an hour to go
yet!
   The barbershop of the Casa Granda boasts the
quickest barber in the world and the best shoe-shine
boy in the world. I don't know the barber's name
—I only know that he is an artist who should be on
Keith time. Lightly soaping your face he presses a
stubby thumb against your chin and snaps back your
head. Then, with a graceful motion, he makes one
stroke of the razor. Gravely humming to himself,
he now jerks your head sideways and repeats the
motion. T w o strokes—you're shaved. It takes one
minute and ten seconds by actual count and Paul
Prentiss declares that he has done it in under the
minute.
   The shoe-shine boy is named Manuel, and he has
a devoted acolyte named Pépe. Shoe-shining with
Manuel is not merely a job: it is an art. His shines
last days, for by some secret process (which includes
         ALL THE WAY TO BACARDI TOWN               249
a liquid he makes himself) the polish takes on a hard
look like marble. I have had my shoes shined by
Greeks, Italians, Negroes, Mexicans, Frenchmen,
Englishmen, Germans and what-not; but never was
there a shiner like Manuel. H e has been shining
shoes in Santiago for forty-five years!
    Apart from Manuel the shoe-shine boy (and with
due apologies to the affable Mr. Bravo) I think the
most important personage in the Casa Granda is
Ramón. Ramón—you have guessed it—is the bar-
tender. Since 1928 he has a new, long, glorious bar
to attend to. I hope that unlike most Cuban bar-
tenders, he will keep it clean. Ramón, of course,
knows the American colony of Santiago as no one
 else could know it.
    You will, inevitably, meet Howard Trumbo—
 Judge Trumbo—who is a mighty important figure in
American Cuba. H e is a mining engineer: "Yes, sir,
 there's enough copper in those hills to provide the
 whole of the United States for two hundred years!"
 But his manner is that of a judge. Such a judge as
 one used to meet riding horses on circuit courts of the
 Far West. An impressive person, a decided char-
 acter, and a splendid soul. Should you desire in-
 formation of this and that: "Ask Judge Trumbo—
 he'll tell you. Ain't nothin' the judge can't tell
 you." And it seems that it is true.
250 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
   W e have already met Mr. Deakin, better known
as "Deek." Then there are "Gint" Wilson and his
father, W . A . Wilson, a great gentleman; and Joe
King. Paul Prentiss himself is the oldest-timer
of them all. H e is a buyer for sugar mills and all his
work is done by 9 a.m. But he rises at four.
   Jennings S. Cox, before-mentioned, still lives in
Santiago, in the big house overlooking the Bay where
Richard Harding Davis wrote Soldiers of Fortune.
Clara Kimball Young was the star in the picture
afterwards made in Santiago—do you remember
her?
   O f other matters you should know of in Santiago,
it is perhaps important to state that it was in the
Oriente theater that Adelina Patti made her debut.
Just why Santiago was selected for this important
occasion I could not discover; it appears that the
diva's home then was in Haiti, where she had fallen
in love.
   Near the Oriente theater is the jail where rooms
may be obtained—I am not joking—from two dol-
lars a day and up. It seems that when you are ar-
rested in Santiago your accommodation in the jail
befits your wealth. T w o dollars a day buys you a
fine large room with a real bed. For three dollars
they will throw in a servant. Five dollars and,
apparently, you have all the comforts of home.
         ALL THE WAY TO BACARDI TOWN             251
    The Santiago Cathedral was the second con-
 structed on the Western hemisphere, but has been
 rebuilt. On several occasions it was pillaged by
pirates, and once it was burned. A worse fate than
any has befallen it now. A vandal archbishop named
Guerra, who has since been transferred, having in
1917 "restored" the cathedral, utilized the ancient
cathedral terrace for open stores, which are rented
to haberdashers, talking-machine vendors, picture-
post-card shops and so forth. It is even possible to
have a drink in Santiago's cathedral. As for the res-
toration itself it does not merit a passing glance.
    On the way to San Juan Hill a great hospital is
passed. This is the Clinica Los Angeles, constructed
at a cost of $800,000 by Professor Ortiz, in memory
of his wife Angela. The hospital, the entire cost of
which was borne by Professor Ortiz, is the most mod-
ern in the West Indies.
    The Peace Tree, under which the Armistice was
signed which gave the combined American and Cuban
forces Santiago and doomed the Spaniards to defeat,
has a custodian who himself fought at San Juan Hill.
His name is Otto Muench—if he is still there. The
Cubans have agitated for some time to have a Cuban
appointed guardian, some of Otto's incautious re-
marks anent the part played by Cuban forces in the
252 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
battle having been denounced in the local press.
   San Juan Hill itself is—well, San Juan Hill. It
was the key position to Santiago and has recently been
provided with a table of orientation which shows
exactly the disposition of the attacking forces and
demonstrates how the battle was won—and what a
tough place it must have been to take.
   The hill is about half an hour's ride from Santiago
and is one of four trips you should make while you
are in the town. Another is to Cobre, to see the
Chapel of the wooden Virgin and the (abandoned)
workings of the first copper-mine in the New World.
Still another is up the mountains to the north—but
this should be taken after a night out, to see the sun-
rise. There is a little cafe at a curve of the
road. . . .
   And the fourth trip, of course, is around the Bay.
Miss San Juan Hill, miss Cobre, miss even the "sun-
rise," an you will, but do not miss the Bay. And
go about six of an evening, to be in readiness when
the sun sinks, suddenly, a molten ruby orb, shed-
ding long streaks of brilliance which paint the world
violet, purple and red.
               Am. Photo Studios
SANTIAGO BAY
                  CHAPTER XX
THE RUM THAT CURED A KING            AND PICKLED A
                NATION

                          I

SANTIAGO is the chief bailiwick of that notorious
old villain, the Demon Rum.
   Here he has his lair, and here he holds court,
surrounded by his general staff: Prince Demijohn,
Prime Minister Bottle and Jester Tumbler.
   H e is a clean-living old scoundrel, though, and
his living-quarters are much cleaner than many a
king's palace. While he can be short-tempered at
times, particularly when seen too much of, his nature
generally is genial, his outlook sunny and his tem-
perament sweet—as befits one into whose makeup
have gone but two ingredients: vegetable juice and
the sun.
   As a humble visitor to his capital I expected, nat-
urally, to be invited to his headquarters. Accord-
ingly, I called one morning on the High Priest of his
temple, a jolly, courteous human named Facundo
Bacardi, and was graciously accorded an audience.
                         253
2 5 4 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
   "Good morning," I said, "I would have audience
with the Demon."
   " H e ' l l be honored," said the High Priest, po-
litely. "Come, we'll go out to his home."

                          II
   From my earliest boyhood rum has exercised a
romantic influence over me. I remember at the age
of nine reading Stevenson's couplet:

         Fifteen men on a dead man's chest—
            Y o ho ho and a bottle of rum!

and for years afterward the thought of a bottle of
rum was irresistibly connected with fifteen roister-
ing pirates, the skull-and-cross bones on their cock-
hats and double-edged knives in their teeth, sitting
on an iron-bound box belonging to a dead man.
Only afterward I learned that "Deadman's Chest"
was the name of an island, a pirate rendezvous.
   A t the age of thirteen I met my first bottle of
rum. There was an old coastguard, said to have been
a smuggler, who lived in a disused lighthouse near
a village on the English Channel where we went for
our holidays, and he was the man with the bottle.
H e would sit with this bottle—it was all the time the
same bottle, square-faced, black and sinister of ap-
pearance—and a large glass, and as he yarned he
         THE RUM THAT CURED A KING              255
would gulp down stuff looking like my grand-
mother's blackberry cordial.
   When he said that it was rum I gazed fearfully
around, but saw no dead men nor any sign of a
chest, and was afraid to ask.
   Later on The Demon Rum began to ornament the
bill-boards of the English countryside, appeals to a
laggard public conscience by a temperance society.
On these bill-boards the Demon was a demon indeed
—an evil-faced creature with horns and a horrible
grimace, and a tail which curled around the help-
less bodies of his dying and despairing disciples.
   These posters made a deep impression on my
adolescent mind, and on my bad nights—I was
troubled with bronchial catarrh—I would dream
feverishly of a frightful fiend who would invade my
slumbers, brandishing a bottle and grinning horribly.
   Then one day, when I had taken French leave of
school and had adventured far, I found myself
under piles of blankets in a hot country, alternately
sweating and chilled to the bone. And the medicine
was served me hot and black, a tumbler an hour, and
I knew then that even a Demon has his uses.
   Later still, in Europe, I found that the Demon
was considered an indispensable item in every house-
hold. No French wife would be so foolish as
to forget always to have on hand a supply of that
256 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
sovereign remedy for chills, colds and la grippe,
Rum.
   But it was not until after American prohibition
narrowed the field of alcoholic beverages that I made
the acquaintance of the Demon's Cuban product—a
clear, limpid liquid which, in some secret process,
had lost its chocolate color and its pharmaceutical
odor, and which could proudly take its place among
the whiskeys and brandies of a gentleman's cellar.
   Beginning as a thick, dark-brown drink to make
pirates drunk, and passing through its phase as a uni-
versal medicine, Rum, by the grace of a family
named Bacardi and of American Prohibition, had be-
come, in fact, a gentleman's drink.
   The Demon was at last respectable!

                         III
   In the year 1838 a Spaniard from, Catalonia
named Bacardi settled in Santiago and commenced
the distillation of sugar-cane in a small shack which
was not only the distillery but his home as well.
   His product was considered higher-grade than the
ordinary rum of the West Indies because by a secret
process Facundo Bacardi had reduced the color from
deep brown to light amber, and somehow done away
with the disagreeable ammoniacal taste. Pirates were
wont to lay in stocks of this new liqueur, and before
         THE RUM THAT CURED A KING               257
very long the fame of the new rum became wide-
spread. Spaniards went back to Spain carrying a
bottle or two to show their families. The Governor-
General sent a bottle to the King of Spain with his
compliments.
   There was back of the kitchen where Facundo
Bacardi distilled his elixir a tree known as the
Moncillo tree. Now, the Moncillo tree is a great
favorite with bats, and so is sugar. Bats living in
the tree would come with great clattering of wings
each night into the kitchen and eat the molasses
from which the rum was made.
   So many bats there were that the neighborhood
began calling the Bacardi product the "bat drink."
And Facundo, being a wise man in his generation,
and being at that time in search of an adequate trade-
 mark, used the Bat as a symbol, which is why to this
day you will find it as a trade-mark on every bottle
 of bacardi.
    Facundo prospered and died and the business was
 carried on and vastly extended by his sons Emilio,
 Facundo and Jose, who became famous throughout
 the island for their charity and benevolence. When-
 ever there was a hospital or a school or a park to be
 built they approached Emilio Bacardi, and they
 never appealed in vain. T o such purpose that, to-
 wards the end of the last century, Emilio had be-
258 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
 come the best-known and best-loved and certainly
 one of the richest men on the island.
    Emilio's son lives in Paris. Facundo had two
sons, both of whom are in the business today. Fa-
cundo, the eldest, is vice-president of the firm. The
president is his uncle, a Frenchman and a patriarch,
Henri Schueg.
    The triumph of Emilio's life came when Alfonso
X I I I of Spain, then a boy, was taken ill with grippe.
The king's physician, when all remedies failed, pre-
scribed a bottle of the Cuban sugar brandy, then
little-known, and the king was cured. There are two
prime treasures of the Bacardi family: the famous
"secret," which is known only to the president and
vice-president and which is said not to be even writ-
ten on paper but carried in the head, to prevent theft;
and the letter which the King's secretary wrote to
Emilio Bacardi thanking him for making a product
that had saved His Majesty's life.

                           IV
   Just what the "secret" consists of is not even
known to the distillery foreman. It is understood
that it is a system of filtration through sand, but even
that is sometimes denied. Certain other rum firms
have spent fortunes trying to duplicate the clear,
fragrant liquid, in vain.
          THE RUM THAT CURED A KING               259
   The business has grown until now it is the largest
single industry in Cuba. In some respects it flirts
with the millennium, for out of 2,800,000 gallons of
molasses used annually more than three times that
volume of bacardi is made and there is still enough
residue left over to become a problem. Some of it
is used for fertilizer.
   After four years' evaporation, however, only sixty
or eighty kegs are obtained out of one hundred,
which balances the matter a little.
   England, Canada, France, Spain and China are the
biggest consumers of bacardi rum and the largest
quantity is exported to Shanghai—
   "For," explains Facundo, "there are more drinkers
in Shanghai than anywhere on earth."

                          v
   Facundo, the jolly vice-president, is a real Cuban,
and proud of it. In 1927 he won the Grand Prize
of the Cuban lottery—and went of course to Paris.
   "Isn't the United States a big consumer?" I asked.
   " A lot of rum is smuggled in," he agreed, "but
everything with a bacardi label in New York isn't
bacardi.
   "The last time I went to New York two friends
took me out to dinner. One of them said we would
260 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
go first to a place he knew which served genuine
bacardi.
   " W e went there and were served, but when I
tasted my glass I shook my head. It wasn't real
bacardi.
   "So the second man said: 'Well, I'll take you to
the swellest place in New York. I'm a member
there and I know they've got the real stuff.'
   " W e went to this other place, a very distinguished
pseudo-club, with thick carpets on the floor, a ma-
hogany bar and a subdued atmosphere. The bar-
tender ceremoniously poured us three drinks out of
what certainly looked like a genuine bottle of carta
oro bacardi.
   "But as soon as it touched my lips I knew it was
faked. Sadly I shook my head again. 'I'm sorry,'
I said, 'but this isn't genuine.'
   "The bartender, insulted, called the manager.
This gentleman was furious. 'What,' he cried, 'you
mean to tell me that isn't real bacardi? Let me tell
you I've been keeping bars for thirty years and know
the real stuff. That's gen-u-ine bacardi—I've been
selling it for twenty years—"
   " 'I'm sorry,' I said, 'but I've been making it
longer than that.' "
                 CHAPTER XXI
ONE THOUSAND SQUARE MILES OF SUGAR.           INTO A
                SUGAR MILL
                          I

SUGAR is Cuba's staple industry and Cuba wishes it
wasn't.
   The climate of Cuba is not one very conducive to
hard labor. It is much easier to sit in the shade with
a big cigar and a tall drink and, when one is hungry,
pluck a banana or two from a tree.
   The importation of the sugar plant was a godsend
to the leisure-loving Cubans. Here was a crop
which, once planted, needed no further attention,
except for cutting, for ten, twelve, fifteen and some-
times twenty years! No cultivating. No irrigation.
You just planted a bit of cane and pretty soon a
dozen or more shoots came up. A year later you cut
the cane and sold it and sat back for another year's
wait. And if you didn't want to cut it yourself—
why, Haiti was close at hand, with inexhaustible sup-
plies of cheap native labor—the best cane-cutters in
the world.
   So everyone in Cuba planted sugar-cane and sat
                         261
262 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
back with the cigar and the drink and waited to get
rich. They made a fair living—a very fair living—
out of it for many years, and then the big sugar
companies began buying in. A t first there were only
a few big plantations—the small farmers were in the
majority as regards land planted. But a year is a
long while to wait, especially when you have spent
all last year's profits in a month, on a big house, a
fine bed and a grand piano, and maybe a trip to Paris
for the old lady and the girls. So when the big
companies offered to buy—well, why not?          Sell
now—move somewhere else—there was plenty of
virgin land—plant again—and then, perhaps, sell
again.
   So the big companies got bigger and bigger and
the small farmers less numerous, because many of
them were taken in by the big companies on a share
basis.
   Then there came the war in Europe—and gosh!
how sugar did sell and soar!
   Three cents—six cents—ten cents—twelve cents—
fifteen cents—twenty cents!
    Cuba was the richest country in the world! Every
Cuban was a millionaire. A loaf of bread cost fifty
cents, a drink a dollar. The landscape around
Havana began to be spotted with marble palaces, pink
and green and rose and white. The sugar million-
    ONE THOUSAND SQUARE MILES OF SUGAR          263
aires invaded New York. They flooded Europe with
their easy dollars—this after the Armistice when the
lid was lifted and sugar was at its highest premium.
   In the casinos of Deauville and Cannes they non-
chalantly tossed millions on the tables—won, lost,
won and lost again.
   They took whole decks of steamships, whole floors
in de luxe hotels.
   Business in Havana was furious, intoxicated, de-
lirious. Sugar at twenty cents !
   The sugar millions were dancing.

                           II
   Suddenly something happened. Sugar dropped.
What? Why? How is this?
   The sugar buyers in New York, in London, in
Paris, in Milan, in Shanghai, impassively shook their
heads.
   "Cuba does not control the market," the islanders
were told. "The war is over now. The beet fields
of Czecho-Slovakia and France are competing. The
demand is less. Filipino production is increasing.
W e won't pay you twenty cents any more."
   Well, then, fifteen cents—
   Yes, but not for long. Sugar had a lead weight
on it. It sank—sank—sank.        Fifteen cents—ten
cents—
264 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
   The Cubans went to the banks and borrowed.
There were two banks particularly which lent—the
National City Bank of New York and the Royal
Bank of Canada.
   They lent to the limit, for the Cubans weren't
used to pinching their purse. Many of them had
great palaces begun in Miramar, on Fifth Avenue,
Havana, or haciendas in the country. They had to
finish them. Furnish them. Live in them.
   T o all appearances Cuba still rolled in money.
Rolls-Royces, Isotta-Fraschinis, Packards, Hispano-
Suizas filled the Prado and the Malecon. Building
went on, only a little diminished. Cubans still spent
royally, in the manner to which they had become
accustomed.
   Sugar was still king.
   Yes, but the money wasn't sugar-money any more.
It was bank money.
   Ten cents—eight cents—six cents—four cents—
two cents—
   Disaster! Débâcle.
   Cuba awoke—too late—to find that somehow the
ownership of the cane-fields had changed hands.
   They belonged—why, how did you guess it!—to
the banks. And first among these banks, of course,
the National City Bank of New York and the Royal
Bank of Canada. Not a tiny pueblo in the whole
    ONE THOUSAND SQUARE MILES OF SUGAR           265
island of Cuba but has a branch of one or both of
these banks now. . . .

                         III
   Something of the explanation lies in the tremen-
dous overproduction of cane, which was the fault of
the war. The production during the years was:
                                       Tons
       1917                         3,073,010
       1918                          3,533,090
       1919                         4,104,205
       1920                         3,758,347
       1921                         3,974,116
       1922                         4,033,455
       1923                         3,600,210
       1924                         4,066,642
(Here the shoe began to pinch.     Remedy: increase
production!)
                                       Tons
       1925                         5,120,219
       1926                         4,872,463
       1927                         4,508,705

   The situation was so serious by now—the more
cane that was cut the lower became the price—that
Colonel Tarafa, one of the Cuban sugar giants, was
sent abroad to see whether he could not get the rival
sugar interests to agree to curtail production. They
266 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
 were willing—suspiciously willing to some—provid-
 ing that Cuba would do likewise. Cuba would. By
 Presidential decree the total production for 1928 was
 cut to 3,979,999 tons.
    At this writing the result of the experiment is
 much in doubt, with sugar still low and money still
tight. Curtailed production is not likely to be con-
tinued in 1929.
   There are 188 mills, or centrales, for the grinding
of cane in Cuba. Santa Clara is the principal pro-
ductive center with 56 active centrales. Oriente
comes second with 46, Matanzas has 29, Havana 16,
and Pinar del Rio 10.
   The largest production of any one mill in 1928
was that of the Manati Sugar Corporation at Manati,
Oriente, which ground 662,462 bags of sugar under
the decree. Next came the Delicias mill of the San
Manuel Sugar Company, also in Oriente, which
ground 662,461 bags—one bag fewer.
   These figures do not of course tell anything of the
strength of the individual companies, some of which
have twenty and more mills. In turn, groups of
these companies are controlled financially by the
banks, the largest individual sugar interest probably
being that of the National City Bank of New York.
   From one end of Cuba to the other the mills dot
the landscape and cane-field succeeds cane-field.
    ONE THOUSAND SQUARE MILES OF SUGAR            267


                          IV
    W . W . Schuyler, general manager of the United
Fruit Company in Cuba and a veteran in the service
of the company, gave this writer the opportunity of
witnessing the cutting and grinding of sugar, which
begins in January on a day fixed by Presidential
decree. So anxious are the companies to use the
allotted time to the utmost that grinding begins one
minute after midnight on the date named.
    The United Fruit plantations are in Oriente and
cover many hundred square miles. There are two
mills, one in Preston and one in Banes, the head-
quarters being in Preston, where Mr. and Mrs.
Schuyler (who comes of an old Virginia family)
have their fine house.
   The United Fruit plantations have their own
system of standard-gauge railroads, with a despatch-
ing system similar to that on ordinary passenger
roads. Passengers from one division to the other
are carried on miniature trains and the executives
use Dodge cars with steel wheels. There are one
hundred and eighty miles of standard-gauge and the
rolling-stock, besides the passenger equipment, con-
sists of six hundred and fifty sugar cars and eighteen
locomotives. One may journey by train on the
268 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
United Fruit plantations for a full day without see-
ing it all.
    The cane is cut—mostly by Haitian Negroes—
with a knife called a machete. The cutter grasps the
stalk of the cane with the left hand and with the
right cuts the cane close to the ground. With an-
other motion all the leaves are sliced off, and with
another more quick cut the glucose part of the cane
is separated from the sucrose, which in turn is cut
into three lengths. The whole operation takes less
than thirty seconds.
    The cane when cut is gathered up and piled on
caterpillar tractors which carry it to the trains. The
trains run directly to the mill, where the cane is un-
loaded on to traveling carriers which carry it to the
crushers. There are a series of these, each one finer
than the other, and finally the juice is carried to the
condensers while the residue of the cane goes to feed
the furnaces which provide the power. From the
condenser the sugar, now crystallized and brown, is
sifted into bags held by Chinamen, one bag being
filled about every thirty-five seconds. The whole
operation is astonishingly rapid and requires very few
hands, but the complication of the machinery is ex-
traordinary and the noise terrific.
    In every sense the sugar thus obtained by modern
machinery is pure, for no human hand has touched
    ONE THOUSAND SQUARE MILES OF SUGAR           269

it since the cutter first grasped the cane and it was
loaded on the cars. It goes to the refinery in sealed
sacks and there, again, the refining process is by
sealed machinery, so that when the sugar arrives on
your table it need not have been handled at all.
   Incidentally, cane sugar is not fattening, and the
ladies who refuse a lump in their coffee for fear of
resultant avoirdupois are merely cheating themselves.
Sugar fattens only in that it makes more palatable
certain starchy foods.
                CHAPTER XXII
A LOVER'S LEXICON:. FIRST AID TO ROMANCE IN CUBA

                          I

T H E first action of the average American on arriving
in Havana (after he has bought a drink) is to pur-
chase one of those handy little books which attempt
to give him "Spanish at a Glance."
   By the aid of his little book he may learn in time
to say, "I want a room and bath," "What time does
the train leave," "Bring me a whiskey-and-soda,"
"Give me the bill," and such-like phrases, and there
is no doubt that these have their uses. But person-
ally when in a foreign country I find myself handi-
capped by the limitations of these little red books.
   It was Corneille who exclaimed: "The secret of
every city is explained by the eyes of its women." A
visitor to a strange land should not confine his in-
vestigations to the souvenir shops and museums, nor
even to a limited male acquaintance. H e will learn
but incompletely if he does. H e certainly will not
understand.
   By all means and any means the American visiting
Cuba should get acquainted with its women. Con-
                         270
                 A LOVER'S LEXICON               271
ventionally this is almost impossible, a fact I have to
record regretfully. A night at the Yacht Club, sur-
rounded by a thousand girls more beautiful than a
composite of all the Atlantic City and Galveston
prize-winners, is almost more than I can bear. I
am irresistibly drawn by beauty. Particularly I like
brunettes. But it is not sufficient for me to look at
them. I'd like to talk to them. And that's where
my inhibition comes in.
   Now, the following lexicon is not for use at the
Yacht Club, although it might help if you were once
introduced. It is included in this book merely as a
gesture of pity toward the forlorn and lonely Ameri-
can bachelors who throng the streets of Havana,
looking at the pretty girls but unable to speak to
them.


   W e will suppose that you are young—in heart if
not in years—and that you either possess the un-
quenchable spirit that requires no stimulation, or else
have fortified yourself with a few mild presidentes—
just sufficient to make the blood of the pioneer and
adventurer mingle pleasantly in your veins with the
blood of the amorous and romantic.
   You are walking down a side-street when all at
once you receive a shock. Behind a barred window
2 7 2 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
two lovely, brown, warm, dreamy eyes gaze on you.
Framing them is an oval, pensive face.
   You hesitate, transfixed. Suddenly you realize
that you are staring, and that staring is rude. Y o u
pass on, hastily, but a yard beyond the window your
steps grow laggard.
   Gee, you'd like to meet that girl!
   You pause, irresolutely. She appears not to
notice you at all, but she does, never fear. So also
does her mother, in the shadow where you may not
see her.
   "What to do? How may you make the acquaint-
ance of this ravishing beauty?

                         III

   This is where I step in to supply the necessary
technique. Y o u have seen the girl. Y o u have
passed, hesitated, and are now standing still pretend-
ing to look at a lamp-post.
   The thing for you to do, then, is to stroll casually
back. As you pass the window you will say, ven-
turing a gay smile into which you have put as much
adoration as possible:
   Buenas tardes, señorita! (Bwaynas tarthys, sayn-
yoreeta.)
   That means "Good afternoon."
   Now, without staring too hard, contrive to watch
                 A LOVER'S LEXICON                 273
the effect of this very carefully. If she gets up and
disappears from the window, it will be because she
knows her mother has heard you, or that she is wait-
ing for her real sweetheart, or because she isn't that
kind of a girl. And you may as well make the best
of it and go away. But if, on the other hand, she
remains at the window, and even by a slight flicker
of her eyelids registers contempt, haughtiness—any-
thing you please, as long as she signifies that she has
heard—why, you may take another chance.
   You therefore stroll along a few yards and then
return—more slowly—as before. When you reach
the window you again try to dazzle her with your
ardor-filled eyes, and excuse yourself:
   "Perdoname que te hablo pero eres tan hermosa
que no me que da mas remedio." (Perrdo-namy kay
tay ahblo payro ayrays tahn airmo-sa kay no may
kwaytha rremaythio.)
   Which means: "Excuse me for speaking, but your
beauty left me with no other remedy."
   She will now frown and pretend to turn away.
But she will not really go away, unless mother pulls
her, because she's curious to know what you are go-
ing to say next. But she doesn't answer you.
   So you pause, look very earnest, brandish your
arms a little, place your hand on your heart, and
declaim:
274 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
   "Señorita, yo soy un Caballero! Y si te he
 ofendido vale mas que me pegue un tiro." (Sayn-
yorita, yo soy oon Cabayero! Ee see tay hay ofen-
thitho bally mas kay may payay oon teero.)
   You have now made a complete fool of yourself,
which is what a girl loves. You have said:
   "Lady, I'm a gentleman! And if I have offended
you nothing else remains but that I go and shoot
myself!"
   You note with pleasure that she appears startled, .
but not displeased. And for the first time she speaks.
You will not understand what she says, but we can
tell you what it is. She is telling you that she thinks
you are loco—crazy.
   You thereupon grow more ardent, if possible, than
before. With a sweeping bow you state:
   "Señorita, si es que yo estoy loco, es -porque usted
es la cosa mas linda que sobre la tierra existe!"
(Saynyoreeta, see ays kay yo estoy loco, ays porkay
oosteth ays la cosa mas leenda kay sobre la tee-erra
ayxeesta.)
   This makes a great hit, as was only natural, for
you have said to her: "Lady, if I'm crazy, it's because
you are the loveliest thing on earth!"
   She manifests her acceptance of this with a few
syllables which probably mean:
                A LOVER'S LEXICON              275
   " W e l l , you may be crazy, but you are at least
amiable!"
   Encouraged by this evidence of progress, you
launch out further:
   "Usted me interesa mucho y realmente quisiera
tener el honor y el gusto de conocerla." (Ossteth
may eenterraysa moocha ee rayalmenty keyseeayra
tener el onor ee el goosto day conocairla.)
   Which means: " Y o u interest me profoundly, and
really I should awfully like the honor and pleasure
of your acquaintance."
   At which, if she is a nice little girl, she will hesi-
tate. Make her acquaintance! That's easier said
than done—in Cuba. However, you venture—
   "Pero puede ser que tengamos amistades mutuas."
 (Payro pooairdy sair kay tengam-os ameestadthes
mootas.)
   She really does look doubtful at that, but it makes
her hopeful, just the same, for perhaps—just per-
haps—you have, as you have suggested, "got a friend
in common."
   What she says now means:
   " A friend in common? But who could that be?"
   It is now up to you to rack your brains. Do not
commit the final error and say, "The bartender at
the Sevilla." She has probably never been inside the
276 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
Sevilla. D o not, either, mention "Sloppy Joe's."
She doesn't know where that is. Your best bet would
be to name somebody known to be dignified and
serious and yet young—one of the Estrada Palmas,
for instance, or one of the Bacardi boys.
   By her frown or smile as you mention these names
you will judge whether you are on a right tack. If
she smiles, the road is clear, and it only remains for
you to find one of the Palmas or Bacardis and per-
suade him to introduce you. If she frowns, however,
it were best to heave a deep sigh and pass on. It's
all over.
   But there are other windows. . . .

                         IV
   It may be, however, that you are a different sort
of a fellow. You couldn't get really romantic if you
tried, but well—when you go to L a Verbena, or
Maxim's, or Vista Alegre, or E l Ariete, or Tokyo—
why, you'd like to be able to say a few words to the
beautiful young thing who so obligingly sits at your
table.
   It may be as well to warn you here that few of
these "beautiful young things"—and they are both
beautiful and young—are Cuban. Most of them are
from Panama or Chile or Ecuador. But they all
speak Spanish and only a few know any English.
                 A LOVER'S LEXICON                277
  For your benefit then, you gay old dog, we'll
append a few brief and easily learned phrases:

   " W i l l you come for a ride?"—"Quieres fosear con-
migo?" (Keeayrys pasayar conmeego?)
  "Give me a kiss?"—"Dame un beso, chica?" (Darmy
oon bayso, cheeka?)
  " W i l l you sup with me?"—"Quieres cenar conmigo?"
(Keeayrys saynar conmeego?)
  "I love you very much."—"Te quiero mucho" ( T a y
keeayro moocho.)
  "How much?"—"Cuanto es?" (Kwanto ays?)
  "Let's have another drink."—"Tomamos otra?" ( T o -
ma-mos ohtra ? )
  "Have a cigarette?"—"Cigarros?" (Seegaros?)
  Money.—Dinero. (Deenayro.)
  Whiskey.—Whiskey. (Weeskee.)
  Bacardi.—Bacardi. (bACardi.)
  Gin.—Ginebra. (Ginevra.)
  Beer.—Cerveza. (Serbayser.)

  I think these few practical phrases ought to help.
                 CHAPTER XXIII
        CUBA, PAST, PRESENT AND FUTURE

                           I
O N May 20, 1929, the Republic of Cuba will be just
twenty-seven years old. The date of May 20, 1902,
for the inauguration of Tomas Estrada Palma as
First President of Cuba, was fixed upon by President
Theodore Roosevelt and General Leonard Wood.
May 19 was the anniversary of the death of the
Cuban patriot, Jose Marti.
   In the chapter which speaks of the life of Horatio
Rubens we have seen how the Cuban Republic was
fomented, fostered and brought into being. W e
know that following the battle of the Maine the
Spaniards were driven from the Island, the Ameri-
cans took their place, work of pacification was actively
pushed, and in a much shorter time than was believed
possible the Americans kept their word, hauled down
the Stars and Stripes from Morro Castle, and sailed
away, leaving the infant Republic of Cuba to
struggle in its swaddling clothes for better or for
worse.
   The infant, growing gradually from long clothes
into short jeans, from jeans into breeches, and from
                          278
     CUBA, PAST, PRESENT AND FUTURE               279
breeches into trousers, proved an unruly child, as was
natural considering its stormy conception. Twice the
Americans were forced to return to Cuba, restore
order, and depart.
   Children of the sun grow to maturity earlier than
others, which is perhaps why they retain through
their manhood certain traits of childhood and adoles-
cence. They love life, gaiety, laughter. They are
quick to anger, easily carried away by faulty elo-
quence. They are prone to worship their chiefs one
moment and then, like a child with his school-
teacher, throw stones at their idol.
   In its twenty-seventh year Cuba is still conscious
of many faults. But it is growing stronger and
wiser. The Cuba of the future will be different in-
deed from the Cuba of today and that it will be a
Cuban Cuba is to be hoped and believed.
   Practically speaking, Cuba today is politically
where the United States was a century ago. She
has only just felt her feet. Let Americans too prone
to criticize remember the tragic faults of their own
early governments before they scorn those of Cuba.

                          II
   Havana today is a boiling cauldron of a great city
in the making. As a suggestion of one side of the
picture, we copy Mr. Hurlbut's glowing eulogy:
280 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
   "Havana has the highest buildings in Latin
America north of Panama.
   "Havana has more roof gardens than any city in
Latin America.
   "Cuba has the longest railroad ever built where
the builders could not plead right of eminent
domain.
   "Cuba has the finest highway system in process of
construction (the italics are not Mr. Hurlbut's) of
any country in Latin America.
   "Cuba has the copper mine which pays the biggest
returns of any mine for money invested.
   "Cuba was the first land discovered by Columbus.
   " T h e railroads of Cuba pass over the largest
bodies of iron ore in any Latin-American country.
   "The railroads of Cuba have more miles of pure
mahogany ties under their rails than any country in
the world.
   "Cuba has melons which grow on trees.
   "Cuba is connected with the United States by a
ferry system. (Even Mexico cannot boast that.)
   "Cuba produced the world's champion billiard
player and the world's champion chess player."
("What," adds the writer, "did Panama ever pro-
duce except a hole in the ground full of running
water?")
   Out of the mouth of one of Cuba's most fervent
     CUBA, PAST, PRESENT AND FUTURE                281
American boosters we thus have a spirited picture of
Havana and Cuba. One is tempted to say that high
buildings do not assist, and in fact lacerate, the charm
of Spanish architecture; that the highway system
should have been begun years ago; that if Cuba ex-
ploited a tithe of her mineral wealth herself she
would be much richer; that if the railroads use ma-
hogany ties the Cubans themselves buy furniture of
American woods; that if the Cubans produced cham-
pion billiard and chess players they also produced
Picabia, the Dada "artist"; and that, in short, few
of these boasts reveal accomplishment which is the
father of fortune.
   But Cuba is cleaning house. H e r curse for years
was the professional politician. When President
Machado took office and astonishingly enforced his
slogan of a "business administration" graft was ram-
pant. Men holding sinecures were paid not on one
payroll but on three and four. One chauffeur was
a lieutenant of police, an officer in the navy, and a
collector of revenue! Machado changed all that.
H e has done his best to abolish petty graft. Cuba
at last is getting a decent government.
   Friends of Cuba could wish that the question of
taxation were wisely settled; a country which has a
public lottery and open gambling should have mini-
mum taxation. The question of diversification of
282 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
crops is the most important confronting Cuba now.
   Ninety percent of what Cuba eats could be raised
in Cuba but ninety percent of what she eats is im-
ported. The soil surrounding Havana is among the
finest in the world; even two crops of potatoes a year
are possible; yet most of the vegetables used come
out of cans. Cuba even imports tropical fruits, of
which she has the largest variety of any country
except Mexico.
   Opportunities to make money are manifold and
countless in Cuba, but the Cuban is afraid to venture
his slender funds because of the burden of taxation.
The foreigner, bolder, steps in, and is charged with
"exploitation."
   Great things are hoped for from the more modern
and sage administration of President Machado, and
there is no doubt that imperative reforms are in the
offing. They are necessary before Cuba can enter
into its glorious heritage.

                          III
   Fifty years from now the abuses and mistakes we
have mentioned will be matters of the past, as will
the reforms which will have banished them. Cuba
will still be Cuban. Its culture will still be Spanish.
But its business methods will be American.
   Fifty years from now Havana will be a city of
      CUBA, PAST, PRESENT AND FUTURE               283
 more than a million people, the greatest port south
 of New York and north of Buenos Ayres. Dotting
 the shores of Cuba will be a sequence of luxury
 resorts similar to the Deauville and Touquet and
Biarritz of the France of today.
    Cuba will no longer shudder at low prices for
 sugar, for the salvation of the country will no longer
be tied to a sweet reed. Diversified crops and, above
all, the tourist business, will have wrought the
change.
    The tourist army of five hundred thousand Ameri-
cans annually will be brought to Havana and other
Cuban ports by giant ocean liners as luxurious as those
which now ply the North Atlantic, and the uncom-
fortable tubs of today will be in museums. Giant
airboats will bring many guests from Long Island
to Havana in ten hours, serving lunch on the way.
   The north coast of Cuba will be studded with great
tourist hotels, some of which will be run by organi-
zations and even corporations for the benefit of their
members and employees. Such hotels will be built
also at certain points on the south coast—Trinidad,
Guantanamo, Santiago.
   A network of good roads will make Cuba a real
Paradise for the American motorist, and there may
even be automobile ferries from island to island of
the West Indies connecting with the main highways
284 WHEN IT'S COCKTAIL TIME IN CUBA
of South America. Motoring from Montreal to
Patagonia will not be impossible.
   These things being inevitable, it behooves the
Cuban authorities to pass such legislation as will
ensure the preservation of Cuban charm and Cuban
scenery, and look to it that such legislation is not of
a character to hamper progress.
   The children of today will see the Cuba of to-
morrow, but for myself I count myself fortunate in
having seen the Cuba of today. For all my criticism
Cuba is to me the most charming country in the
world. In spite of its age it is new, in spite of its
modernity it is ancient, and its perfect climate impels
the laziness which to a man like me is bliss.
   But I shall not stay in Cuba—unless I win the
lottery. And by that time, perhaps, I shall be a
Cuban, and go to Paris!
   For there is no such place as a perpetual heaven
on this side of the grave. A far horizon ever
beckons. . . . T o find one's truest Eden one must
leave it for another.


                      THE END
